quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk .) we anticipate total capital expenditures, including the two freedom-class ships on order, will be approximately $0.4 billion, $1.0 billion and $1.0 billion for 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively . 32 contractual obligations and off-balance sheet arrangements as of december 31, 2004, our contractual obligations were as follows (in thousands ): payments due by period less than 1 1-3 3-5 more than 5 total year years years years long-term debt obligations (1)(2) $5,384,284 $881,256 $1,098,588 $949,815 $2,454,625 capital lease obligations 347,660 24,118 54,154 63,129 206,259 operating lease obligations (3)(4) 665,984 50,770 96,860 94,228 424,126 ship purchase obligations(5) 1,306,462 108,064 1,198,398 other (6) 260,916 51,888 86,608 46,015 76,405 total $7,965,306 $1,116,096 $2,534,608 $1,153,187 $3,161,415 (1) amounts exclude interest, except for the accreted value of our zero coupon convertible notes and liquid yield option notes. (2) the $408.5 million accreted value of the zero coupon convertible notes at december 31, 2004 is included in the three to five years category. the $694.3 million accreted value of the liquid yield option notes at december 31, 2004 is included in the more than five years category. the holders of our zero coupon convertible notes and our liquid yield option notes may require us to purchase any notes outstanding at an accreted value of $501.7 million on may 18, 2009 and $930.8 million on february 2, 2011, respectively. these accreted values were calculated based on the number of notes outstanding at december 31, 2004. we may choose to pay any amounts in cash or common stock or a combination thereof. (3) we are obligated under noncancelable operating leases primarily for a ship, offices, warehouses, computer equipment and motor vehicles. (4) under the brilliance of the seas lease agreement, we may be required to make a termination payment of approximately 126 million, or approximately $242 million based on the exchange rate at december 31, 2004, if the lease is canceled in 2012. this amount is included in more than 5 years category (see note 12. commitments and contingencies to our consolidated financial statements.) (5) amounts represent contractual obligations with initial terms in excess of one year. (6) amounts represent future commitments with remaining terms in excess of one year to pay for our usage of certain port facilities, marine consumables, services and maintenance contracts. our off-balance sheet arrangements consist primarily of operating lease commitments as discussed in note 12. commitments and contingencies to our consolidated financial statements. under the brilliance of the seas operating lease, we have agreed to indemnify the lessor to the extent its after-tax return is negatively impacted by unfavorable changes in corporate tax rates and capital allowance deductions. these indemnifications could result in an increase in our lease payments. we are unable to estimate the maximum potential increase in such lease payments due to the various circumstances, timing or combination of events that could trigger such indemnifications. under current circumstances we do not believe an indemnification is probable. some of the contracts that we enter into include indemnification provisions that obligate us to make payments to the counterparty if certain events occur. these contingencies generally relate to changes in taxes, increased lender capital costs and other similar costs. the indemnification clauses are often standard contractual terms and are entered into in the normal course of business. there are no stated or notional amounts included in the indemnification clauses and we are not able to estimate the maximum potential amount of future payments, if any, under these indemnification clauses. we have not been required to make any payments under such indemnification clauses in the past and, under current circumstances, we do not believe an indemnification in any material amount is probable. as a normal part of our business, depending on market conditions, pricing and our overall growth strategy, we continuously consider opportunities to enter into contracts for the building of additional ships. we may also consider the sale of ships. we continuously consider potential acquisitions and strategic alliances. if any of these were to occur, they would be financed through the incurrence of additional indebtedness, the issuance of additional shares of equity securities or through cash flows from operations. funding sources as of december 31, 2004, our liquidity was $1.6 billion consisting of approximately $0.6 billion in cash and cash equivalents and $1.0 billion available under our unsecured revolving credit facility. (see note 6. long-term debt to our consolidated financial statements.) capital expenditures and scheduled debt payments will be funded through a combination of cash flows from operations, drawdowns under our available credit facility, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the sales of equity or debt securities in private or public securities markets. there can be no assurances that cash flows from operations and additional financing from external sources will be available in accordance with our expectations. 33 our financing agreements contain covenants that require us, among other things, to maintain minimum net worth, and fixed charge coverage ratio and limit our debt to capital ratio. we were in compliance with all covenants as of december 31, 2004. if a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates, our two principal shareholders, cease to own a specified percentage of our common stock, we may be obligated to prepay indebtedness outstanding under the majority of our credit facilities, which we may be unable to replace on similar terms. if this were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our liquidity and operations. we believe our existing credit facility, cash flows from operations, our ability to obtain new borrowings and/or raise new capital or a combination of these sources will be sufficient to fund operations, debt payment requirements and capital expenditures over the next twelve-month period. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments and other general we are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and fuel prices. we minimize these risks through a combination of our normal operating and financing activities and through the use of derivative financial instruments pursuant to our hedging practices and policies. the financial impacts of these hedging instruments are primarily offset by corresponding changes in the underlying exposures being hedged. we achieve this by closely matching the amount, term and conditions of the derivative instrument with the underlying risk being hedged. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. we monitor our derivative positions using techniques including market valuations and sensitivity analyses. (see note 11. financial instruments to our consolidated financial statements.) interest rate risk our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates to our long-term debt obligations and our operating lease for brilliance of the seas . at december 31, 2004, 64% of our debt was effectively fixed and 36% was floating. we enter into interest rate swap agreements to modify our exposure to interest rate movements and to manage our interest expense and rent expense. market risk associated with our long-term fixed rate debt is the potential increase in fair value resulting from a decrease in interest rates. at december 31, 2004, our interest rate swap agreements effectively changed $268.8 million of fixed rate debt with a weighted-average fixed rate of 7.81% to libor-based floating rate debt. the estimated fair value of our long-term fixed rate debt at december 31, 2004, excluding our liquid yield option notes and zero coupon convertible notes, was $3.1 billion using quoted market prices, where available, or using discounted cash flow analyses based on market rates available to us for similar debt with the same remaining maturities. the fair value of our associated interest rate swap agreements was estimated to be $21.9 million as of december 31, 2004 based on quoted market prices for similar or identical financial instruments to those we hold. a hypothetical one percentage point decrease in interest rates at december 31, 2004 would increase the fair value of our long-term fixed rate debt, excluding our liquid yield option notes and zero coupon convertible notes, by approximately $144.1 million, net of an increase in the fair value of the associated interest rate swap agreements. market risk associated with our long-term floating rate debt is the potential increase in interest expense from an increase in interest rates. a hypothetical one percentage point increase in interest rates would increase our 2005 interest expense by approximately $9.4 million. at december 31, 2004, we have an interest rate swap agreement that effectively changes $25 million of libor-based floating rate debt to fixed rate debt of 4.395% beginning january 2005. 34 market risk associated with our operating lease for brilliance of the seas is the potential increase in rent expense from an increase in sterling libor rates. as of january 2005, we have effectively changed 58% of the operating lease obligation from a floating rate to a fixed rate obligation with a weighted-average rate of 4.81% through a combination of interest rate swap agreements and rate fixings with the lessor. a hypothetical one percentage point increase in sterling libor rates would increase our 2005 rent expense by approximately $2.0 million, based on the exchange rate at december 31, 2004, net of the effect of interest rate swaps. convertible notes the estimated fair values of our liquid yield option notes and zero coupon convertible notes fluctuate with the price of our common stock and at december 31, 2004 were $962.8 million and $756.8 million, respectively. a hypothetical 10% decrease or increase in our december 31, 2004 common stock price would decrease or increase the value of our liquid yield option notes and zero coupon convertible notes by approximately $96.1 million and $74.3 million, respectively. foreign currency exchange rate risk our primary exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk relates to our firm commitments under ship construction contracts (including a ship lengthening contract), denominated in euros. we entered into euro denominated forward contracts to manage this risk. the estimated fair value of such euro denominated forward contracts at december 31, 2004, was a net unrealized gain of approximately $110.9 million, based on quoted market prices for equivalent instruments with the same remaining maturities. these euro denominated forward contracts mature through 2007. at december 31, 2004, approximately 26% of the cost of the ship construction contracts was exposed to fluctuations in the euro exchange rate. a hypothetical 10% strengthening of the euro as of december 31, 2004, assuming no changes in comparative interest rates, would result in a $140.6 million increase in the united states dollar value of the foreign currency denominated ship construction contracts. this increase would be partially offset by an increase in the fair value of our euro denominated forward contracts of approximately $104.3 million. we are also exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on the united states dollar value of our foreign currency denominated forecasted transactions. to manage this exposure, we take advantage of any natural offsets of our foreign currency revenues and expenses and enter into foreign currency forward contracts and/or option contracts for a portion of the remaining exposure related to these forecasted transactions. our principal net foreign currency exposure relates to the euro, the norwegian kroner, british pound sterling and the canadian dollar. at december 31, 2004, the estimated fair value of such contracts was an unrealized loss of approximately $6.0 million based on quoted market prices for equivalent instruments with the same remaining maturities. a hypothetical 10% strengthening of the principal foreign currencies as of december 31, 2004, assuming no changes in comparative interest rates, would result in a $5.8 million increase in the united states dollar value of the 2005 foreign currency denominated forecasted transactions. this increase would be offset by a decrease in the fair value of our 2005 foreign currency forward contracts of approximately $6.4 million. fuel price risk our exposure to market risk for changes in fuel prices relates to the consumption of fuel on our ships. fuel cost, as a percentage of our total revenues, was approximately 5.5% in 2004, 5.2% in 2003 and 4.5% in 2002. historically, we have used fuel swap agreements and zero cost collars to mitigate the financial impact of fluctuations in fuel prices. as of december 31, 2004, we had fuel swap agreements to pay fixed prices for fuel with an aggregate notional amount of approximately $35.4 million, maturing through 2005. the estimated fair value of these contracts at december 31, 2004 was an unrealized gain of $8.1 million. we estimate that a hypothetical 10% increase in our weighted-average fuel price from that experienced during the year ended december 31, 2004 would increase our 2005 fuel cost by approximately $28.2 million. this increase would be partially offset by an increase in the fair value of our fuel swap agreements of approximately $3.9 million. 35risk factors 15 risk factors the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k are important factors, among others, that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historic results. it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, this list should not be considered a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. (see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for a note regarding forward-looking statements.) we may lose business to competitors throughout the vacation market . we operate in the vacation market and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. we therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators which provide other leisure options including hotels, resorts and package holidays and tours. we face significant competition from other cruise lines, both on the basis of cruise pricing and also in terms of the nature of ships and services we offer to cruise passengers. our principal competitors within the cruise vacation industry include carnival corporation &amp; plc, which owns, among others, carnival cruise lines, princess cruises, holland america line, costa cruises, p&amp;o cruises, and cunard line; star cruises, which owns, among others, star cruises and norwegian cruise line; mediterranean shipping company, which owns msc cruises; and disney cruise line. in the event that we do not compete effectively with other vacation alternatives and cruise companies, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. overcapacity within the cruise vacation industry, a reduction in demand or geo-political and economic uncertainties could have a negative impact on revenues, result in impairment of assets and may adversely affect profitability . cruising capacity has grown in recent years and we expect it to increase further as the major cruise vacation companies introduce new ships. demand for cruises has been and is expected to continue to be dependent on the strength of the economies in the countries in which we market our products, the public attitude towards the safety of travel and the geo-political climate. economic or political changes may reduce demand for cruise vacations and may lead to reduced occupancy and/or price discounting which, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and could result in impairment of our asset values. fears of terrorist attacks, war and other hostilities and the spread of contagious diseases could have a negative impact on our profitability . events such as terrorist attacks, war and other hostilities, the spread of contagious diseases and the resulting political instability, travel restrictions and concerns over safety, health and security aspects of traveling have had, and could have in the future, a significant adverse impact on demand and pricing in the travel and vacation industry. these events could also impact our ability to source qualified crew from throughout the world at competitive costs and, therefore, increase our shipboard employee costs. incidents or adverse publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry or unusual weather conditions could affect our reputation and harm our future sales and profitability . the operation of cruise ships involves the risk of accidents, illnesses and other incidents which may bring into question passenger safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction and thereby adversely affect future industry performance. incidents involving cruise ships, adverse media publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry or unusual weather patterns or natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes, could impact demand and consequently have an adverse impact on our profitability. 15 environmental, health and safety, financial responsibility and other maritime regulations could affect operations and increase operating costs . the united states and various state and foreign government or regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations or policies that could adversely impact the cruise vacation industry. some environmental groups have lobbied for more stringent regulation of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise vacation industry and its environmental impact. in addition, we are subject to various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties that govern, among other things, safety standards applicable to our ships, health and sanitary standards applicable to our passengers, security standards on board our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities to our passengers. these issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. this could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that would subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. in 2005, the united states issued a proposed western hemisphere travel initiative which would require united states citizens to have a passport or other accepted identity document to travel to or from certain countries or areas that were previously exempt, such as canada, mexico, central and south america and the caribbean. the proposal is currently expected to be implemented as of december 31, 2006 for all united states citizens traveling to or from these destinations by air and sea and as of december 31, 2007 for all travel by land border crossings. many of our united states cruise passengers visiting these destinations currently do not have passports, and it is therefore likely that these regulations will have a negative impact on our bookings when they are implemented. we may not be able to obtain financing on terms that are favorable or consistent with our expectations . to fund our capital expenditures and scheduled debt payments, we rely on a combination of cash flows provided by operations, drawdowns under our available credit facility, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the sales of equity or debt securities in private or public securities markets. our credit ratings impact our ability to obtain financing in financial markets and the terms of the financing. any lowering of our credit ratings may have adverse consequences on our ability to access the financial markets and/or on our cost of financings. in addition, interest rates and our ability to obtain financing are dependent on many economic and political factors beyond our control. accordingly, we cannot be sure that our cash flows from operations and additional financings will be available in accordance with our expectations. conducting business internationally may result in increased costs and other risks . we operate our business internationally and plan to continue to develop our international presence. operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks. examples include political risks and risk of increases in duties and taxes as well as changes in laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses, or governing the operations of foreign-based companies. additional risks include currency fluctuations, interest rate movements, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings. if we are unable to address these risks adequately, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we have ship construction contracts which are denominated in euros. while we have entered into euro denominated forward contracts to manage a portion of the currency risk associated with these ship construction contracts, we are exposed to fluctuations in the euro exchange rate for the portion of the ship construction contracts that has not been hedged. if the shipyard is unable to perform under the related ship construction contract, any foreign currency hedges that were entered into to manage the currency risk would need to be terminated. termination of these contracts could result in a significant loss. ship construction delays or mechanical faults may result in cancellation of cruises and unscheduled drydocks and repairs . 16 we depend on shipyards to construct and deliver our cruise ships on a timely basis and in good working order. the sophisticated nature of building a ship involves risks. delays or mechanical faults in ship construction have in the past and may in the future result in delays or cancellation of cruises or necessitate unscheduled drydocks and repairs of ships. shipyard insolvency and other industrial actions could also delay or indefinitely postpone the timely delivery of new ships. we have experienced mechanical problems with the pod propulsion units on certain ships and there can be no assurance that we will not experience such problems in the future. these events together with any related adverse publicity could, to the extent they are not covered by contractual provisions or insurances, adversely affect our financial results. our operating costs and taxes could increase due to market forces and economic or political factors beyond our control. our operating costs, including fuel, food, payroll, insurance and security costs, are subject to increases due to market forces and economic or political instability or other factors beyond our control. increases in these operating costs could adversely affect our profitability. in addition, united states state and local authorities as well as foreign authorities periodically consider increases in taxes. for instance, initiatives are currently pending in alaska, which, if adopted, would impose taxes and other costs on us and our cruise passengers. the implementation of these and other taxes could also cause an increase in our costs. unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our profits . we believe that port destinations are a major reason why passengers choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. the availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, existing capacity constraints, security concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, local governmental regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists. any limitations on the availability of our ports of call could adversely affect our profits. a change in our tax status under the united states internal revenue code may have adverse effects on our income . we and a number of our subsidiaries are foreign corporations that derive income from a united states trade or business and/or from sources within the united states. drinker biddle &amp; reath llp, our united states tax counsel, has delivered to us an opinion, based on certain representations and assumptions set forth in it, to the effect that this income, to the extent derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, is exempt from united states income tax pursuant to section 883 of the internal revenue code. we believe that most of our income (including that of our subsidiaries) is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships. in 2005, final regulations under section 883 became effective, which narrowed somewhat the scope of activities that are considered by the internal revenue service to be incidental to the international operation of ships. to the extent the income from non-incidental activities is earned from sources within the united states, that income will be subject to united states taxation; but the determination of the precise amount of such untied states source income involves some uncertainties. the tax impact of these new regulations reduced our net income for the year ended december 31, 2005 by approximately $14 million and we anticipate tax impacts in subsequent years on an ongoing basis. it should also be noted that the provisions of section 883 are subject to change at any time by legislation. moreover, changes could occur in the future with respect to the identity, residence or holdings of our direct or indirect shareholders that could affect our eligibility for the section 883 exemption. accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be exempt from united states income tax on united states source shipping income in the future. if we were not entitled to the benefit of section 883, we and our subsidiaries would be subject to united states taxation on a portion of the income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships, which would reduce our net income. see taxation of the company above for a discussion of such taxation in the absence of an exemption under section 883. we are controlled by principal shareholders that have the power to determine our policies, management and actions requiring shareholder approval . 17 as of february 10, 2006, a. wilhelmsen as., a norwegian corporation indirectly owned by members of the wilhelmsen family of norway, owned approximately 20.4% of our common stock and cruise associates, a bahamian general partnership indirectly owned by various trusts primarily for the benefit of certain members of the pritzker family and various trusts primarily for the benefit of certain members of the ofer family, owned approximately 15.8% of our common stock. a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates have the power to determine, among other things: our policies and the policies of our subsidiaries, the persons who will be our directors and officers, and actions requiring shareholder approval. a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates are parties to a shareholders agreement. the agreement provides that our board of directors will consist of the following persons: four nominees of a. wilhelmsen as., four nominees of cruise associates and our chief executive officer. during the term of the shareholders agreement, certain corporate actions require the approval of at least one director nominated by a. wilhelmsen as. and one director nominated by cruise associates. our principal shareholders are not prohibited from engaging in a business that may compete with our business, subject to certain exceptions. if any person other than a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates, our two principal shareholders, acquires ownership of more than 30% of our common stock and our two principal shareholders, in the aggregate, own less of our common stock than such person and do not collectively have the right to elect, or to designate for election, at least a majority of the board of directors, we may be obligated to prepay indebtedness outstanding under the majority of our credit facilities, which we may be unable to replace on similar terms. if this were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our liquidity and operations. the holders of our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their equity interest as a result of the sale of currently restricted shares of our common stock into the public market . a substantial number of shares of our common stock were either issued by us in private transactions not involving a public offering or are held by our affiliates and, therefore the sale of these securities is subject to restrictions under the securities act of 1933 ( securities act ). these shares include the 20.4% shares of our common stock held by a. wilhelmsen as. and the 15.8% held by cruise associates. no predictions can be made as to the effect, if any, that market sales of such shares, or the availability of such shares for future market sales, will have on the market price of our common stock prevailing from time to time. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perceptions that such sales could occur, could materially adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through an offering of equity securities. each of a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates has the right, pursuant to a registration rights agreement, to require us, subject to certain qualifications, to effect the registration under the securities act of all or part of their shares of common stock which would allow these shares to be sold into the public market. we are not a united states corporation and our shareholders may be subject to the uncertainties of a foreign legal system in protecting their interests . our corporate affairs are governed by our restated articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the business corporation act of liberia. the provisions of the business corporation act of liberia resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the united states. however, while most states have a fairly well developed body of case law interpreting their respective corporate statutes, there are very few judicial cases in liberia interpreting the business corporation act of liberia. for example, the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under liberian law are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial 18 precedent in existence in certain united states jurisdictions. thus, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests with respect to actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a united states jurisdiction. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments and other general we are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and fuel prices. we minimize these risks through a combination of our normal operating and financing activities and through the use of derivative financial instruments pursuant to our hedging practices and policies. the financial impacts of these hedging instruments are primarily offset by corresponding changes in the underlying exposures being hedged. we achieve this by closely matching the amount, term and conditions of the derivative instrument with the underlying risk being hedged. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. we monitor our derivative positions using techniques including market valuations and sensitivity analyses. (see note 10. financial instruments to our consolidated financial statements underrisk factors 18 risk factors the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k are important factors, among others, that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historical results. it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, this list should not be considered a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. (see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for a note regarding forward-looking statements.) we may lose business to competitors throughout the vacation market . we operate in the vacation market and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. we therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators, which provide other leisure options including hotels, resorts and package holidays and tours. we face significant competition from other cruise lines, both on the basis of cruise pricing and also in terms of the nature of ships and services we offer to cruise passengers. our principal competitors within the cruise vacation industry include carnival corporation &amp; plc, which owns, among others, carnival cruise lines, princess cruises, holland america line, costa cruises, p&amp;o cruises, and cunard line; star cruises, which owns, among others, star cruises and norwegian cruise line; mediterranean shipping company, which owns msc cruises; and disney cruise line. in the event that we do not compete effectively with other vacation alternatives and cruise companies, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. overcapacity within the cruise vacation industry, a reduction in demand or geo-political and economic uncertainties could have a negative impact on revenues, result in impairment of assets and may adversely affect profitability . cruising capacity has grown in recent years and we expect it to increase further as the major cruise vacation companies introduce new ships. demand for cruises has been and is expected to continue to be dependent on the strength of the economies in the countries in which we market our products, the public attitude towards the safety of travel and the geo-political climate. economic or political changes may reduce demand for cruise vacations and may lead to reduced occupancy and/or price discounting which, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and could result in impairment of our asset values. fears of terrorist attacks, war and other hostilities and the spread of contagious diseases could have a negative impact on our profitability. events such as terrorist attacks, war and other hostilities, the spread of contagious diseases and the resulting political instability, travel restrictions and concerns over safety, health and security aspects of traveling have had, and could have in the future, a significant adverse impact on demand and pricing in the travel and vacation industry. these events could also impact our ability to source qualified crew from throughout the world at competitive costs and, therefore, increase our shipboard employee costs. incidents or adverse publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry or unusual weather conditions could affect our reputation and harm our future sales and profitability . the operation of cruise ships involves the risk of accidents, illnesses and other incidents which may bring into question passenger safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction and thereby adversely affect future industry performance. incidents involving cruise ships, adverse media publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry or unusual weather patterns or natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes, could impact demand and consequently have an adverse impact on our profitability. 18 environmental, health and safety, financial responsibility and other maritime regulations could affect operations and increase operating costs . the united states and various state and foreign government or regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations or policies that could adversely impact the cruise vacation industry. some environmental groups have lobbied for more stringent regulation of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise vacation industry and its environmental impact. in addition, we are subject to various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties that govern, among other things, safety standards applicable to our ships, health and sanitary standards applicable to our passengers, security standards on board our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities to our passengers. these issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. this could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that would subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. we may not be able to obtain financing on terms that are favorable or consistent with our expectations . to fund our capital expenditures and scheduled debt payments, we rely on a combination of cash flows provided by operations, drawdowns under our available credit facility, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the sales of equity or debt securities in private or public securities markets. our credit ratings impact our ability to obtain financing in financial markets and the terms of the financing. any lowering of our credit ratings may have adverse consequences on our ability to access the financial markets and/or on our cost of financings. in addition, interest rates and our ability to obtain financing are dependent on many economic and political factors beyond our control. accordingly, we cannot be sure that our cash flows from operations and additional financings will be available in accordance with our expectations. conducting business internationally may result in increased costs and other risks . we operate our business internationally and plan to continue to develop our international presence. operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks. examples include political risks and risk of increases in duties and taxes as well as changes in laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses, or governing the operations of foreign-based companies. additional risks include currency fluctuations, interest rate movements, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings. if we are unable to address these risks adequately, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we have ship construction contracts, which are denominated in euros. while we have entered into euro-denominated forward contracts to manage a portion of the currency risk associated with these ship construction contracts, we are exposed to fluctuations in the euro exchange rate for the portion of the ship construction contracts that has not been hedged. if the shipyard is unable to perform under the related ship construction contract, any foreign currency hedges that were entered into to manage the currency risk would need to be terminated. termination of these contracts could result in a significant loss. ship construction delays or mechanical faults may result in cancellation of cruises and unscheduled drydocks and repairs . we depend on shipyards to construct and deliver our cruise ships on a timely basis and in good working order. the sophisticated nature of building a ship involves risks. delays or mechanical faults in ship construction have in the past and may in the future result in delays or cancellation of cruises or necessitate unscheduled drydocks and repairs of ships. shipyard insolvency and other industrial actions could also delay or indefinitely postpone the timely delivery of new ships. we have experienced mechanical problems with the pod propulsion units on certain ships and there can be no assurance that we will not experience such problems in the future. these events together with any related adverse publicity could, to the extent they are not covered by contractual provisions or insurances, adversely affect our financial results. our operating costs and taxes could increase due to market forces and economic or political factors beyond our control. our operating costs, including fuel, food, payroll, insurance and security costs, are subject to increases due to market forces and economic or political instability or other factors beyond our control. increases in these operating costs could adversely affect our profitability. in addition, united states state and local authorities as well as foreign authorities periodically consider increases in taxes. the implementation of these and other taxes could also cause an increase in our costs. 19 unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our profits . we believe that port destinations are a major reason why passengers choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. the availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, existing capacity constraints, security concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, local governmental regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists. any limitations on the availability of our ports of call could adversely affect our profits. a change in our tax status under the united states internal revenue code may have adverse effects on our income . we and a number of our subsidiaries are foreign corporations that derive income from a united states trade or business and/or from sources within the united states. drinker biddle &amp; reath llp, our united states tax counsel, has delivered to us an opinion, based on certain representations and assumptions set forth in it, to the effect that this income, to the extent derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, is exempt from united states income tax pursuant to section 883 of the internal revenue code. we believe that most of our income (including that of our subsidiaries) is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships. in 2005, final regulations under section 883 became effective, which narrowed somewhat the scope of activities that are considered by the internal revenue service to be incidental to the international operation of ships. to the extent the income from non-incidental activities is earned from sources within the united states, that income will be subject to united states taxation; but the determination of the precise amount of such untied states source income involves some uncertainties. the tax impact of these new regulations reduced our net income for the year ended december 31, 2006 by approximately $6.3 million and we anticipate tax impacts in subsequent years on an ongoing basis. it should also be noted that the provisions of section 883 are subject to change at any time by legislation. moreover, changes could occur in the future with respect to the identity, residence or holdings of our direct or indirect shareholders that could affect our eligibility for the section 883 exemption. accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be exempt from united states income tax on united states source shipping income in the future. if we were not entitled to the benefit of section 883, we and our subsidiaries would be subject to united states taxation on a portion of the income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships, which would reduce our net income. see taxation of the company above for a discussion of such taxation in the absence of an exemption under section 883. finally, changes in the income tax laws affecting our cruise business in malta, the united kingdom or elsewhere could result in higher income taxes being charged against our cruise operations, resulting in lower net income. 20 we are controlled by principal shareholders that have the power to determine our policies, management and actions requiring shareholder approval . as of february 7, 2007, a. wilhelmsen as., a norwegian corporation indirectly owned by members of the wilhelmsen family of norway, owned approximately 20.2% of our common stock and cruise associates, a bahamian general partnership indirectly owned by various trusts primarily for the benefit of certain members of the pritzker family and various trusts primarily for the benefit of certain members of the ofer family, owned approximately 15.7% of our common stock. a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates have the power to determine, among other things: our policies and the policies of our subsidiaries, the persons who will be our directors and officers, and actions requiring shareholder approval. a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates are parties to a shareholders agreement. the agreement provides that our board of directors will consist of the following persons: four nominees of a. wilhelmsen as., four nominees of cruise associates and our chief executive officer. during the term of the shareholders agreement, certain corporate actions require the approval of at least one director nominated by a. wilhelmsen as. and one director nominated by cruise associates. our principal shareholders are not prohibited from engaging in a business that may compete with our business, subject to certain exceptions. if any person other than a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates, our two principal shareholders, acquires ownership of more than 30% of our common stock and our two principal shareholders, in the aggregate, own less of our common stock than such person and do not collectively have the right to elect, or to designate for election, at least a majority of the board of directors, we may be obligated to prepay indebtedness outstanding under the majority of our credit facilities, which we may be unable to replace on similar terms. if this were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our liquidity and operations. the holders of our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their equity interest as a result of the sale of currently restricted shares of our common stock into the public market . a substantial number of shares of our common stock were either issued by us in private transactions not involving a public offering or are held by our affiliates and, therefore the sale of these securities is subject to restrictions under the securities act of 1933 ( securities act ). these shares include the 20.2% shares of our common stock held by a. wilhelmsen as. and the 15.7% held by cruise associates. no predictions can be made as to the effect, if any, that market sales of such shares, or the availability of such shares for future market sales, will have on the market price of our common stock prevailing from time to time. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perceptions that such sales could occur, could materially adversely affect the prevailing market price for our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through an offering of equity securities. each of a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates has the right, pursuant to a registration rights agreement, to require us, subject to certain qualifications, to effect the registration under the securities act of all or part of their shares of common stock which would allow these shares to be sold into the public market. we are not a united states corporation and our shareholders may be subject to the uncertainties of a foreign legal system in protecting their interests . our corporate affairs are governed by our restated articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the business corporation act of liberia. the provisions of the business corporation act of liberia resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the united states. however, while most states have a fairly well developed body 21 of case law interpreting their respective corporate statutes, there are very few judicial cases in liberia interpreting the business corporation act of liberia. for example, the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under liberian law are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain united states jurisdictions. thus, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests with respect to actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a united states jurisdiction. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments and other general we are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and fuel prices. we manage these risks through a combination of our normal operating and financing activities and through the use of derivative financial instruments pursuant to our hedging practices and policies. the financial impacts of these hedging instruments are primarily offset by corresponding changes in the underlying exposures being hedged. we achieve this by closely matching the amount, term and conditions of the derivative instrument with the underlying risk being hedged. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. we monitor our derivative positions using techniques including market valuations and sensitivity analyses. (see note 11. financial instruments to our consolidated financial statements underrisk factors 19 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments and other general we are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and fuel prices. we manage these risks through a combination of our normal operating and financing activities and through the use of derivative financial instruments pursuant to our hedging practices and policies. the financial impacts of these hedging instruments are primarily offset by corresponding changes in the underlying exposures being hedged. we achieve this by closely matching the amount, term and conditions of the derivative instrument with the underlying risk being hedged. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. we monitor our derivative positions using techniques including market valuations and sensitivity analyses. (see note 13. fair value of financial instruments to our consolidated financial statements underrisk factors 23 risk factors the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k are important factors that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historical results. it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks. the risks described below are only those known risks relating to our operations and financial condition that we consider material. there may be additional risks that we consider not to be material, or which are not known, and any of these risks could have the effects set forth below. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for a cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements. adverse worldwide economic, geopolitical or other conditions could reduce the demand for cruises and adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition including potentially impairing the value of our ships, goodwill and other assets. the demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic and geopolitical conditions. in recent years, we have been faced with very challenging global economic conditions, which have adversely affected vacationers' discretionary income and consumer confidence. this, in turn, resulted in cruise booking slowdowns, decreased cruise prices and lower onboard revenues for us and for others in the cruise industry as compared to more robust economic times. although the cruise industry continued to recover in 2013, recovery remains slow in certain key markets, including southern europe, and has been hindered in some other markets by ongoing economic instability. we cannot predict with any certainty whether demand for cruises will continue to improve or the rate of such improvement. in addition, any significant deterioration of global economic conditions could result in a prolonged period of booking slowdowns, depressed cruise prices and reduced onboard revenues. demand for our cruises is also influenced by geopolitical events. unfavorable conditions, such as cross-border conflicts, civil unrest and governmental changes, especially in regions with popular ports of call, can undermine consumer demand and/or pricing for itineraries featuring these ports. continued unrest and economic instability could materially adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition including potentially impairing the value of our ships, goodwill and other assets. during 2012, we recognized material impairment related charges associated with our pullmantur brand. despite these charges, if the economies where pullmantur operates perform worse than contemplated in our discounted cash flow model, or if there are relatively modest changes to the projected future cash flows used in the impairment analyses, especially in net yields or if certain transfers of vessels from our other cruise brands to the pullmantur fleet do not take place, it is reasonably possible that an additional impairment charge of the pullmantur reporting unit's goodwill and trademarks and trade names may be required. we may not be able to obtain sufficient financing or capital for our needs or may not be able to do so on terms that are acceptable or consistent with our expectations. to fund our capital expenditures and scheduled debt payments, we have historically relied on a combination of cash flows provided by operations, drawdowns under available credit facilities, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the sale of equity or debt securities in private or public securities markets. any circumstance or event which leads to a decrease in consumer cruise spending, such as worsening global economic conditions or significant incidents impacting the cruise industry, could negatively affect our operating cash flows. see - adverse worldwide economic, geopolitical or other conditions and - incidents or adverse publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry for more information. although we believe we can access sufficient liquidity to fund our operations and obligations as expected, there can be no assurances to that effect. our ability to access additional funding as and when needed, our ability to timely refinance and/or replace our outstanding debt securities and credit facilities on acceptable terms and, our cost of funding will depend upon numerous factors including but not limited to the vibrancy of the financial markets, our financial performance and credit ratings and the performance of our industry in general. 23 table of contents our inability to satisfy the covenants required by our credit facilities could adversely impact our liquidity. our debt agreements contain covenants, including covenants restricting our ability to take certain actions and financial covenants that require us to maintain minimum net worth and fixed charge coverage ratios and limit our net debt-to-capital ratio. our ability to comply with the terms of our outstanding facilities may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions and other events, some of which may be beyond our control. in addition, our ability to make borrowings under our available credit facilities is subject to the absence of material adverse changes in our business. our ability to maintain our credit facilities may also be impacted by changes in our ownership base. more specifically, we may be required to prepay a majority of our debt facilities if (i) any person or entity other than a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates and their respective affiliates (the applicable group ) acquires ownership of more than 33% of our common stock and the applicable group owns less of our common stock than such person or (ii) subject to certain exceptions, during any 24-month period, a majority of the board is no longer comprised of individuals who were members of the board on the first day of such period. certain of our outstanding debt securities also contain change of control provisions that would be triggered by the acquisition of greater than 50% of our common stock by a person other than a member of the applicable group coupled with a ratings downgrade. our failure to comply with the terms of our debt facilities could result in an event of default. generally, if an event of default under any debt agreement occurs, then pursuant to cross default acceleration clauses, our outstanding debt and derivative contract payables could become due and/or terminated. we cannot provide assurances that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay or the ability to refinance the borrowings under any of the credit facilities or settle other outstanding contracts if such amounts were accelerated upon an event of default. in addition, under several of our agreements with credit card processors that accept credit cards for the sale of cruises and other services, the credit card processor may hold back a reserve from our credit card receivables following the occurrence of certain events, including a default under our major credit facilities. as of december 31, 2013, we were not required to maintain any reserve under such agreements. incidents or adverse publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry, unusual weather conditions and other natural disasters or disruptions could affect our reputation as well as impact our sales and results of operations. the operation of cruise ships, airplanes, land tours, port facilities and shore excursions involves the risk of accidents, illnesses, mechanical failures, environmental incidents and other incidents which may bring into question safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction which could negatively impact our reputation. incidents involving cruise ships, and, in particular the safety and security of guests and crew, media coverage thereof, as well as adverse media publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry have impacted and could in the future impact demand for our cruises and pricing in the industry. the considerable expansion in the use of social media over recent years has compounded the potential scope of the negative publicity that could be generated by those incidents. if any such incident occurs during a time of high seasonal demand, the effect could disproportionately impact our results of operations for the year. in addition, incidents involving cruise ships may result in additional costs to our business, increasing government or other regulatory oversight and, in the case of incidents involving our ships, potential litigation. our cruise ships and port facilities may also be adversely impacted by unusual weather patterns or natural disasters or disruptions, such as hurricanes and earthquakes. it is possible that we could be forced to alter itineraries or cancel a cruise or a series of cruises due to these or other factors, which would have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. in addition, these and any other events which impact the travel industry more generally may negatively impact our ability to deliver guests or crew to our cruises and/or interrupt our ability to obtain services and goods from key vendors in our supply chain. any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and on industry performance. the impact of disruptions in the global financial markets may affect the ability of our counterparties and others to perform their obligations to us. the financial crisis of 2008, including failures of financial service and insurance companies and the related liquidity crisis, disrupted the capital and credit markets. a recurrence of these or similar disruptions could cause our 24 table of contents counterparties and others to breach their obligations to us under our contracts with them. this could include failures of banks or other financial service companies to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements or to pay us amounts that may become due under our derivative contracts for hedging of fuel prices, interest rates and foreign currencies or other agreements. if any of the foregoing occurs it may have a negative impact on our cash flows, including our ability to meet our obligations, our results of operations and our financial condition. an increase in capacity worldwide or excess capacity in a particular market could adversely impact our cruise sales and/or pricing. although our ships can be redeployed, cruise sales and/or pricing may be impacted both by the introduction of new ships into the marketplace and by deployment decisions of ourselves and our competitors. a total of 26 new ships with approximately 71,000 berths are on order for delivery through 2018 in the cruise industry. the further growth in capacity from these new ships and future orders, without an increase in the cruise industry's share of the vacation market, could depress cruise prices and impede our ability to achieve yield improvement. in addition, to the extent that we or our competitors deploy ships to a particular itinerary and the resulting capacity in that region exceeds the demand, we may lower pricing and profitability may be lower than anticipated. any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition including potentially impairing the value of our ships, goodwill and other assets. if we are unable to appropriately balance our cost management strategies with our goal of satisfying guest expectations, it may adversely impact our business success. our goals call for us to provide high quality products and deliver high quality services. there can be no assurances that we can successfully balance these goals with our cost management strategies. we may lose business to competitors throughout the vacation market . we operate in the vacation market and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. we therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators, which provide other leisure options including hotels, resorts and package holidays and tours. we face significant competition from other cruise lines on the basis of cruise pricing, travel agent preference and also in terms of the nature of ships and services we offer to guests. our principal competitors within the cruise vacation industry include carnival corporation &amp; plc, which owns, among others, aida cruises, carnival cruise lines, costa cruises, cunard line, holland america line, iberocruceros, p&amp;o cruises and princess cruises; disney cruise line; msc cruises; norwegian cruise line and oceania cruises. in the event that we do not compete effectively with other vacation alternatives and cruise companies, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. fears of terrorist and pirate attacks, war, and other hostilities and the spread of contagious diseases could have a negative impact on our results of operations. events such as terrorist and pirate attacks, war, and other hostilities and the resulting political instability, travel restrictions, the spread of contagious diseases and concerns over safety, health and security aspects of traveling or the fear of any of the foregoing have had, and could have in the future, a significant adverse impact on demand and pricing in the travel and vacation industry. in view of our global operations, we have become susceptible to a wider range of adverse events. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our financial results. we earn revenues, pay expenses, recognize assets and incur liabilities in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including, among others, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar, the euro, the australian dollar and the brazilian real. in 2013, we derived approximately 48% of revenues from operations outside the united states. because our 25 table of contents consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must convert revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. therefore, absent offsetting changes in other foreign currencies, increases or decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar against other major currencies will affect our revenues, net income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. we use derivative financial instruments to mitigate our net balance sheet exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations. however, there can be no assurances that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against major currencies, would not materially affect our financial results. in addition, we have ship construction contracts which are denominated in euros. while we have entered into euro-denominated forward contracts and collar options to manage a portion of the currency risk associated with these ship construction contracts, we are exposed to fluctuations in the euro exchange rate for the portion of the ship construction contracts that has not been hedged. additionally, if the shipyard is unable to perform under the related ship construction contract, any foreign currency hedges that were entered into to manage the currency risk would need to be terminated. termination of these contracts could result in a significant loss. environmental, labor, health and safety, financial responsibility and other maritime regulations could affect operations and increase operating costs. the united states and various state and foreign government or regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations or policies, such as requiring the use of low sulfur fuels, increasing fuel efficiency requirements, further restricting emissions, or other initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions that could increase our cost for fuel, cause us to incur significant expenses to purchase and/or develop new equipment and adversely impact the cruise vacation industry. some environmental groups have also lobbied for more stringent regulation of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise vacation industry and its environmental impact. see item 1. business-regulation-environmental regulations . an increase in fuel prices not only impacts our fuel costs, but also some of our other expenses, such as crew travel, freight and commodity prices. in addition, we are subject to various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties that govern, among other things, safety standards applicable to our ships, treatment of disabled persons, health and sanitary standards applicable to our guests, security standards on board our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities to our guests. these issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world, especially in light of several recent incidents involving cruise ships. this could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that could subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. conducting business globally may result in increased costs and other risks. we operate our business globally. operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including unstable local economic conditions, volatile local political conditions, potential changes in duties and taxes, including changing interpretations of existing tax laws and regulations, required compliance with additional laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses or governing the operations of foreign-based companies, currency fluctuations, interest rate movements, difficulties in operating under local business environments, u.s. and global anti-bribery laws or regulations, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings. if we are unable to address these risks adequately, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected, including potentially impairing the value of our ships, goodwill and other assets. operating globally also exposes us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements. in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business communities might not conform to international business standards. we must adhere to policies designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance as well as applicable laws and regulations. however, we might not be successful in ensuring that our employees, agents, representatives and other third parties with which we associate throughout the world properly adhere to them. 26 table of contents failure by us, our employees or any of these third parties to adhere to our policies or applicable laws or regulations could result in penalties, sanctions, damage to our reputation and related costs which in turn could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. our attempts to expand our business into new markets may not be successful. while our historical focus has been to serve the north american cruise market, we have expanded our focus to increase our international guest sourcing, including sourcing from the latin american, asian and australian markets. in addition, in early 2014, pullmantur opened a regional head office in panama. expansion into new markets requires significant levels of investment. there can be no assurance that these markets will develop as anticipated or that we will have success in these markets, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations, including potentially impairing the value of our goodwill. ship construction, repair or revitalization delays or mechanical faults may result in cancellation of cruises or unscheduled drydocks and repairs and thus adversely affect our results of operations. we depend on shipyards to construct, repair and revitalize our cruise ships on a timely basis and in good working order. the sophisticated nature of building a ship involves risks. delays in ship construction or revitalization or mechanical faults have in the past and may in the future result in delays or cancellation of cruises or necessitate unscheduled drydocks and repairs of ships. these events and any related adverse publicity could result in lost revenue, increased operating expenses, or both, and thus adversely affect our results of operations. shipyards and their subcontractors may experience financial difficulties which could cause or result in delay, ship cancellations, our inability to procure new capacity in a timely fashion or increases in shipbuilding costs that could adversely affect our results of operations. we rely on shipyards to construct, repair and revitalize our ships. financial difficulties, liquidations or closures suffered by these shipyards and/or their subcontractors may impact the timely delivery or costs of new ships or the ability of shipyards to repair and revitalize our fleet in accordance with our needs or expectations. the shipyard that is building the two newbuilds for our tui cruises joint venture continues to experience financial difficulties. this situation could have a material impact on the ability of the shipyard to deliver these ships in accordance with the terms of the contract, the costs borne by tui cruises associated with these ships and/or the additional financial support that we may need to provide to tui cruises (e.g., parent guarantees, loans, additional equity contributions) or that tui cruises may need to provide to the shipyard to seek to ensure timely completion. in addition, there are a limited number of shipyards with the capability and capacity to build our new ships and, accordingly, closures or consolidation in the cruise shipyard industry could impact our ability to construct new ships when and as planned and/or could result in stronger bargaining power on the part of the shipyards and thus higher prices for our future ship orders. delivery delays and canceled deliveries can adversely affect our results of operations, as can any constraints on our ability to build, repair and maintain our ships on a timely basis. our operating costs, especially fuel expenditures, could increase due to market forces and economic or geo- political factors beyond our control. expenditures for fuel represent a significant cost of operating our business. if fuel prices rise significantly in a short period of time, we may be unable to increase fares or other fees sufficiently to offset fully our increased fuel costs. we routinely hedge a portion of our future fuel requirements to protect against rising fuel costs. however, there can be no assurance that our hedge contracts will provide a sufficient level of protection against increased fuel costs or that our counterparties will be able to perform under our hedge contracts, such as in the case of a counterparty's bankruptcy. further volatility in fuel prices or disruptions in fuel supplies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 27 table of contents our other operating costs, including food, payroll, airfare, taxes, insurance and security costs are all subject to increases due to market forces and economic or political conditions or other factors beyond our control. increases in these operating costs could adversely affect our profitability. unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our results of operations . we believe that port destinations are a major reason why guests choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. the availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including existing capacity constraints, constraints related to the size of certain ships, security concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, local governmental regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists. in addition, rising fuel costs may adversely impact the destinations on certain of our itineraries. any limitations on the availability or feasibility of our ports of call or on the availability of shore excursion and other service providers at such ports could adversely affect our results of operations. price increases for commercial airline service for our guests or major changes or reduction in commercial airline service and/or availability could adversely impact the demand for cruises and undermine our ability to provide reasonably priced vacation packages to our guests. many of our guests depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to or from the ports where our cruises embark or disembark. increases in the price of airfare would increase the overall price of the cruise vacation to our guests which may adversely impact demand for our cruises. in addition, changes in the availability of commercial airline services could adversely affect our guests' ability to obtain airfare as well as our ability to fly our guests to or from our cruise ships which could adversely affect our results of operations. our reliance on travel agencies to sell and market our cruises exposes us to certain risks which, if realized, could adversely impact our business. because we rely on travel agencies to generate the majority of bookings for our ships, we must ensure that our commission rates and incentive structures remain competitive. if we fail to offer competitive compensation packages, these agencies may be incentivized to sell cruises offered by our competitors to our detriment, which could adversely impact our operating results. in addition, the travel agent industry is sensitive to economic conditions that impact discretionary income. significant disruptions, especially disruptions impacting those agencies that sell a high volume of our business, or contractions in the industry could reduce the number of travel agencies available for us to market and sell our cruises, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. disruptions in our shoreside operations or our information systems may adversely affect our results of operations. our principal executive office and principal shoreside operations are located at the port of miami, florida and we have shoreside offices throughout the world. actual or threatened natural disasters (e.g., hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, fires, floods) or similar events in these locations may have a material impact on our business continuity, reputation and results of operations. in addition, substantial or repeated information systems failures, computer viruses or cyber-attacks impacting our shoreside or shipboard operations could adversely impact our business. we do not generally carry business interruption insurance for our shoreside operations or our information systems. as such, any losses or damages incurred by us could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. failure to develop the value of our brands and differentiate our products could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends on the strength and continued development of our cruise brands and on the effectiveness of our brand strategies. failure to protect and differentiate our brands from competitors throughout the vacation market could adversely affect our results of operations. 28 table of contents the loss of key personnel, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel, or disruptions among our shipboard personnel due to strained employee relations could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends, in large part, on the skills and contributions of key executives and other employees, and on our ability to recruit and retain high quality personnel. we must continue to sufficiently recruit, retain, train and motivate our employees to maintain our current business and support our projected growth. furthermore, as of december 31, 2013 , 80% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. a dispute under our collective bargaining agreements could result in a work stoppage of those employees covered by the agreements. a loss of key employees or disruptions among our personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. business activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may subject us to additional risks. partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties, such as our joint venture to operate tui cruises, generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. in addition, actions by another investor may present additional risks of operational difficulties or reputational or legal concerns. these or other issues related to our co-investment with third parties could adversely impact our operations. we rely on third-party providers of various services integral to the operations of our businesses. these third parties may act in ways that could harm our business. in order to achieve cost and operational efficiencies, we outsource to third-party vendors certain services that are integral to the operations of our global businesses, such as our onboard concessionaires, certain of our call center operations and operation of a large part of our information technology systems. we are subject to the risk that certain decisions are subject to the control of our third-party service providers and that these decisions may adversely affect our activities. a failure to adequately monitor a third-party service provider's compliance with a service level agreement or regulatory or legal requirements could result in significant economic and reputational harm to us. there is also a risk the confidentiality, privacy and/or security of data held by third parties or communicated over third-party networks or platforms could become compromised. a failure to keep pace with developments in technology or technological obsolescence could impair our operations or competitive position. our business continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems. these technologies and systems must be refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems in order to continue to meet our customers' demands and expectations. if we are unable to do so in a timely manner or within reasonable cost parameters or if we are unable to appropriately and timely train our employees to operate any of these new systems, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. we may be exposed to risks and costs associated with protecting the integrity and security of our guests' and employees' personal information. we are subject to various risks associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of sensitive information, including risks related to compliance with applicable laws and other contractual obligations, as well as the risk that our systems collecting such information could be compromised. in the course of doing business, we collect large volumes of internal and customer data, including personally identifiable information for various business purposes. if we fail to maintain compliance with the various applicable data collection and privacy laws or with credit card industry standards or other applicable data security standards, we could be exposed to fines, penalties, restrictions, litigation or other expenses, and our business could be adversely impacted. in addition, even if we are fully compliant with legal standards and contractual requirements, we still may not be able to prevent security breaches involving sensitive data. any breach, theft, loss, or fraudulent use of guest, employee or company data could cause consumers 29 table of contents to lose confidence in the security of our information technology systems and choose not to purchase from us and expose us to risks of data loss, business disruption, litigation and other liability, any of which could adversely affect our business. a change in our tax status under the united states internal revenue code, or other jurisdictions, may have adverse effects on our income . we and a number of our subsidiaries are foreign corporations that derive income from a united states trade or business and/or from sources within the united states. drinker biddle &amp; reath llp, our united states tax counsel, has delivered to us an opinion, based on certain representations and assumptions set forth in it, to the effect that this income, to the extent derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, is exempt from united states federal income tax pursuant to section 883 of the internal revenue code. we believe that most of our income (including that of our subsidiaries) is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships. our ability to rely on section 883 could change in the future. for example, u.s. tax legislation has been proposed that would eliminate the availability of section 883 to us and would thereby cause a portion of our international shipping income to be subject to tax in the united states. moreover, changes could occur in the future with respect to the identity, residence or holdings of our direct or indirect shareholders, trading volume or trading frequency of our shares, or relevant foreign tax laws of liberia or malta such that they no longer qualify as equivalent exemption jurisdictions, that could affect our eligibility for the section 883 exemption. accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be exempt from united states income tax on united states source shipping income in the future. if we were not entitled to the benefit of section 883, we and our subsidiaries would be subject to united states taxation on a portion of the income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships, which would reduce our net income. additionally, portions of our business are operated by companies that are within tonnage tax regimes of the u.k. and malta. further, some of the operations of these companies are conducted in jurisdictions where we rely on tax treaties to provide exemption from taxation. to the extent the tonnage tax laws of these countries change or we do not continue to meet the applicable qualification requirements or if tax treaties are changed or revoked, we may be required to pay higher income tax in these jurisdictions, adversely impacting our results of operations. as budgetary constraints continue to adversely impact the jurisdictions in which we operate, increases in income tax regulations or tax reform affecting our operations may be imposed. we are not a united states corporation and our shareholders may be subject to the uncertainties of a foreign legal system in protecting their interests. our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the business corporation act of liberia. the provisions of the business corporation act of liberia resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the united states. however, while most states have a fairly well developed body of case law interpreting their respective corporate statutes, there are very few judicial cases in liberia interpreting the business corporation act of liberia. as such, the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under liberian law are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain united states jurisdictions. for example, the right of shareholders to bring a derivative action in liberian courts may be more limited than in united states jurisdictions. there may also be practical difficulties for shareholders attempting to bring suit in liberia and liberian courts may or may not recognize and enforce foreign judgments. thus, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests with respect to actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a united states jurisdiction. 30 table of contents litigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and/or damage our reputation. our business is subject to various united states and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. in addition, improper conduct by our employees, agents or joint venture partners could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. in certain circumstances it may not be economical to defend against such matters and/or a legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. provisions of our articles of incorporation, by-laws and liberian law could inhibit others from acquiring us, prevent a change of control, and may prevent efforts by our shareholders to change our management. certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws and liberian law may inhibit third parties from effectuating a change of control of the company without board approval which could result in the entrenchment of current management. these include provisions in our articles of incorporation that prevent third parties, other than a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates, from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of our outstanding shares without the consent of our board of directors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments and other general we are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and fuel prices. we manage these risks through a combination of our normal operating and financing activities and through the use of derivative financial instruments pursuant to our hedging practices and policies. the financial impact of these hedging instruments is primarily offset by corresponding changes in the underlying exposures being hedged. we achieve this by closely matching the amount, term and conditions of the derivative instrument with the underlying risk being hedged. although certain of our derivative financial instruments do not qualify or are not accounted for under hedge accounting, we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. we monitor our derivative positions using techniques including market valuations and sensitivity analyses. (see note 14. fair value measurements and derivative instruments to our consolidated financial statements underrisk factors 24 risk factors the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k are important factors that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historical results. it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks. the risks described below are only those known risks relating to our operations and financial condition that we consider material. there may be additional risks that we consider not to be material, or which are not known, and any of these risks could have the effects set forth below. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for a cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements. adverse worldwide economic, geopolitical or other conditions could reduce the demand for cruises and adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition including potentially impairing the value of our ships, goodwill and other assets. the demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic and geopolitical conditions. in recent years, we have been faced with very challenging global economic conditions, which have adversely affected vacationers' discretionary income and consumer confidence. this, in turn, resulted in cruise booking slowdowns, decreased cruise prices and lower onboard revenues for us and for others in the cruise industry as compared to more robust economic times. although the cruise industry continued to recover in 2014, ongoing economic challenges continue in certain key markets, including europe. in addition, we cannot predict with any certainty whether demand for cruises will continue to improve in countries that have experienced improved economic conditions or the strength of such improvement. any significant deterioration of global, national or local economic conditions could result in a prolonged period of booking slowdowns, depressed cruise prices and reduced onboard revenues. demand for our cruises is also influenced by geopolitical events. unfavorable conditions, such as cross-border conflicts, civil unrest and governmental changes, especially in regions with popular ports of call, can undermine consumer demand and/or pricing for itineraries featuring these ports. continued unrest and economic instability could materially adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition including potentially impairing the value of our ships, goodwill and other assets. see critical accounting policies for more information. we may not be able to obtain sufficient financing or capital for our needs or may not be able to do so on terms that are acceptable or consistent with our expectations. to fund our capital expenditures and scheduled debt payments, we have historically relied on a combination of cash flows provided by operations, drawdowns under available credit facilities, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the sale of equity or debt securities in private or public securities markets. we also condition the effectiveness of our ship orders on obtaining committed financing arrangements. any circumstance or event which leads to a decrease in consumer cruise spending, such as worsening global economic conditions or significant incidents impacting the cruise industry, could negatively affect our operating cash flows. see - adverse worldwide economic, geopolitical or other conditions and - incidents or adverse publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry for more information. although we believe we can access sufficient liquidity to fund our operations and obligations as expected, there can be no assurances to that effect. our ability to access additional funding as and when needed, our ability to timely refinance and/or replace our outstanding debt securities and credit facilities on acceptable terms and our cost of funding will depend upon numerous factors including but not limited to the vibrancy of the financial markets, our financial performance and the performance of our industry in general. our inability to satisfy the covenants required by our credit facilities could adversely impact our liquidity. our debt agreements contain covenants, including covenants restricting our ability to take certain actions and financial covenants. in addition, our ability to make borrowings under our available credit facilities is subject to the absence of material adverse changes in our business. our ability to maintain our credit facilities may also be impacted by changes in our ownership base. more specifically, we may be required to prepay a majority of our debt facilities if 24 table of contents (i) any person or entity other than a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates and their respective affiliates (the applicable group ) acquires ownership of more than 33% of our common stock and the applicable group owns less of our common stock than such person or (ii) subject to certain exceptions, during any 24-month period, a majority of the board is no longer comprised of individuals who were members of the board on the first day of such period. certain of our outstanding debt securities also contain change of control provisions that would be triggered by the acquisition of greater than 50% of our common stock by a person other than a member of the applicable group coupled with a ratings downgrade. our failure to comply with the terms of our debt facilities could result in an event of default. generally, if an event of default under any debt agreement occurs, then pursuant to cross default acceleration clauses, our outstanding debt and derivative contract payables could become due and/or terminated. in addition, in such events, our credit card processors could hold back payments to create a reserve. we cannot provide assurances that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay or the ability to refinance the borrowings under any of the credit facilities or settle other outstanding contracts if such amounts were accelerated upon an event of default. incidents or adverse publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry, unusual weather conditions and other natural disasters or disruptions could affect our reputation as well as impact our sales and results of operations. the ownership and/or operation of cruise ships, airplanes, land tours, port facilities and shore excursions involves the risk of accidents, illnesses, mechanical failures, environmental incidents and other incidents which may bring into question safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction which could negatively impact our reputation. incidents involving cruise ships, and, in particular the safety and security of guests and crew, media coverage thereof, as well as adverse media publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry have impacted and could in the future impact demand for our cruises and pricing in the industry. the considerable expansion in the use of social media and digital marketing over recent years has compounded the potential scope of the negative publicity that could be generated by those incidents. if any such incident occurs during a time of high seasonal demand, the effect could disproportionately impact our results of operations for the year. in addition, incidents involving cruise ships may result in additional costs to our business, increasing government or other regulatory oversight and, in the case of incidents involving our ships, potential litigation. our cruise ships and port facilities may also be adversely impacted by unusual weather patterns or natural disasters or disruptions, such as hurricanes and earthquakes. we are often forced to alter itineraries and occasionally to cancel a cruise or a series of cruises due to these or other factors, which could have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. in addition, these and any other events which impact the travel industry more generally may negatively impact our ability to deliver guests or crew to our cruises and/or interrupt our ability to obtain services and goods from key vendors in our supply chain. any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and on industry performance. the impact of disruptions in the global financial markets may affect the ability of our counterparties and others to perform their obligations to us. the financial crisis of 2008, including failures of financial service and insurance companies and the related liquidity crisis, disrupted the capital and credit markets. a recurrence of these or similar disruptions could cause our counterparties and others to breach their obligations to us under our contracts with them. this could include failures of banks or other financial service companies to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements or to pay us amounts that may become due under our derivative contracts for hedging of fuel prices, interest rates and foreign currencies or other agreements. if any of the foregoing occurs it may have a negative impact on our cash flows, including our ability to meet our obligations, our results of operations and our financial condition. an increase in capacity worldwide or excess capacity in a particular market could adversely impact our cruise sales and/or pricing. although our ships can be redeployed, cruise sales and/or pricing may be impacted both by the introduction of new ships into the marketplace and by deployment decisions of ourselves and our competitors. a total of 33 new ships 25 table of contents with approximately 98,650 berths are on order for delivery through 2019 in the cruise industry. the further growth in capacity from these new ships and future orders, without an increase in the cruise industry's share of the vacation market, could depress cruise prices and impede our ability to achieve yield improvement. in addition, to the extent that we or our competitors deploy ships to a particular itinerary and the resulting capacity in that region exceeds the demand, we may lower pricing and profitability may be lower than anticipated. any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition including potentially impairing the value of our ships, goodwill and other assets. if we are unable to appropriately balance our cost management strategies with our goal of satisfying guest expectations, it may adversely impact our business success. our goals call for us to provide high quality products and deliver high quality services. there can be no assurances that we can successfully balance these goals with our cost management strategies. we may lose business to competitors throughout the vacation market . we operate in the vacation market and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. we therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators, which provide other leisure options including hotels, resorts and package holidays and tours. we face significant competition from other cruise lines on the basis of cruise pricing, travel agent preference and also in terms of the nature of ships and services we offer to guests. our principal competitors within the cruise vacation industry include carnival corporation &amp; plc, which owns, among others, aida cruises, carnival cruise line, costa cruises, cunard line, holland america line, p&amp;o cruises and princess cruises; disney cruise line; msc cruises; norwegian cruise line holdings ltd which owns norwegian cruise line, oceania cruises and regent seven seas cruises. in the event that we do not compete effectively with other vacation alternatives and cruise companies, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. fears of terrorist and pirate attacks, war, and other hostilities and the spread of contagious diseases could have a negative impact on our results of operations. events such as terrorist and pirate attacks, war, and other hostilities, including the recent escalation of tensions in the middle east and terrorism incidents in europe, and the resulting political instability, travel restrictions, the spread of contagious diseases and concerns over safety, health and security aspects of traveling or the fear of any of the foregoing have had, and could have in the future, a significant adverse impact on demand and pricing in the travel and vacation industry. in view of our global operations, we have become susceptible to a wider range of adverse events. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, fuel costs and interest rates could affect our financial results. we are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, fuel prices and changes in interest rates. high levels of volatility with respect to any of the foregoing could have a material impact on our financial results, net of the impact of our hedging activities and other natural offsets. see item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for more information. environmental, labor, health and safety, financial responsibility and other maritime regulations could affect operations and increase operating costs. the united states and various state and foreign government or regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations or policies, such as requiring the use of low sulfur fuels, increasing fuel efficiency requirements, further restricting emissions, or other initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions that could increase our cost for fuel, limit the supply of compliant fuel, cause us to incur significant expenses to purchase and/or develop 26 table of contents new equipment and adversely impact the cruise vacation industry. while we have taken and expect to continue to take a number of actions to mitigate the potential impact of certain of these regulations, there can be no assurances that these efforts will be successful. some environmental groups have also lobbied for more stringent regulation of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise vacation industry and its environmental impact. see item 1. business-regulation-environmental regulations . an increase in fuel prices not only impacts our fuel costs, but also some of our other expenses, such as crew travel, freight and commodity prices. in addition, we are subject to various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties that govern, among other things, safety standards applicable to our ships, treatment of disabled persons, health and sanitary standards applicable to our guests, security standards on board our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities to our guests. these issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. this could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that could subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. conducting business globally may result in increased costs and other risks. we operate our business globally. operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including increased exposure to a wider range of regional and local economic conditions, volatile local political conditions, potential changes in duties and taxes, including changing and/or uncertain interpretations of existing tax laws and regulations, required compliance with additional laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses or governing the operations of foreign-based companies, currency fluctuations, interest rate movements, difficulties in operating under local business environments, port quality and availability in certain regions, u.s. and global anti-bribery laws or regulations, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings. we have recently expanded our presence in china and, accordingly, our exposure to the risks of doing business in the country. china's economy differs from the economies of other developed countries in many respects and, as the legal system in china continues to evolve, there may be greater uncertainty as to the interpretation and enforcement of applicable laws and regulations. operating globally also exposes us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal, regulatory and tax requirements. in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business communities might not conform to international business standards. we must adhere to policies designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance as well as applicable laws and regulations. however, we might not be successful in ensuring that our employees, agents, representatives and other third parties with which we associate throughout the world properly adhere to them. failure by us, our employees or any of these third parties to adhere to our policies or applicable laws or regulations could result in penalties, sanctions, damage to our reputation and related costs which in turn could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to address these risks adequately, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected, including potentially impairing the value of our ships, goodwill and other assets. our attempts to expand our business into new markets may not be successful. while our historical focus has been to serve the north american cruise market, we have expanded our focus to increase our international guest sourcing, including sourcing from the asian, latin american, and australian markets. expansion into new markets requires significant levels of investment. there can be no assurance that these markets will develop as anticipated or that we will have success in these markets, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations, including potentially impairing the value of our goodwill. ship construction, repair or upgrade delays or mechanical faults may result in cancellation of cruises or unscheduled drydocks and repairs and thus adversely affect our results of operations. we depend on shipyards to construct, repair and upgrade our cruise ships on a timely basis and in good working order. the sophisticated nature of building a ship involves risks. delays in ship construction or upgrades or mechanical faults have in the past and may in the future result in delays or cancellation of cruises or necessitate unscheduled 27 table of contents drydocks and repairs of ships. these events and any related adverse publicity could result in lost revenue, increased operating expenses, or both, and thus adversely affect our results of operations. shipyards and their subcontractors may experience financial difficulties or consolidation which could cause or result in delay, ship cancellations, our inability to procure new capacity in a timely fashion or increases in shipbuilding costs that could adversely affect our results of operations. we rely on shipyards to construct, repair and upgrade our ships. financial difficulties, liquidations or closures suffered by these shipyards and/or their subcontractors may impact the timely delivery or costs of new ships or the ability of shipyards to repair and upgrade our fleet in accordance with our needs or expectations. in addition, there are a limited number of shipyards with the capability and capacity to build our new ships and, accordingly, consolidation in the cruise shipyard industry could impact our ability to construct new ships when and as planned and/or could result in stronger bargaining power on the part of the shipyards and thus higher prices for our future ship orders. delivery delays and canceled deliveries can adversely affect our results of operations, as can any constraints on our ability to build, repair and maintain our ships on a timely basis. our operating costs could increase due to market forces and economic or geo- political factors beyond our control. our operating costs, including fuel, food, payroll, airfare, taxes, insurance and security costs are all subject to increases due to market forces and economic or political conditions or other factors beyond our control. increases in these operating costs could adversely affect our profitability. unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our results of operations . we believe that port destinations are a major reason why guests choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. the availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including existing capacity constraints, constraints related to the size of certain ships, security concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, local governmental regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists. in addition, rising fuel costs may adversely impact the destinations on certain of our itineraries. any limitations on the availability or feasibility of our ports of call or on the availability of shore excursion and other service providers at such ports could adversely affect our results of operations. price increases for commercial airline service for our guests or major changes or reduction in commercial airline service and/or availability could adversely impact the demand for cruises and undermine our ability to provide reasonably priced vacation packages to our guests. many of our guests depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to or from the ports where our cruises embark or disembark. increases in the price of airfare would increase the overall price of the cruise vacation to our guests which may adversely impact demand for our cruises. in addition, changes in the availability of commercial airline services could adversely affect our guests' ability to obtain airfare as well as our ability to fly our guests to or from our cruise ships which could adversely affect our results of operations. our reliance on travel agencies to sell and market our cruises exposes us to certain risks which, if realized, could adversely impact our business. because we rely on travel agencies to generate the majority of bookings for our ships, we must ensure that our commission rates and incentive structures remain competitive. if we fail to offer competitive compensation packages, these agencies may be incentivized to sell cruises offered by our competitors to our detriment, which could adversely impact our operating results. in addition, the travel agent industry is sensitive to economic conditions that impact discretionary income. significant disruptions, especially disruptions impacting those agencies that sell a high volume of our business, or contractions in the industry could reduce the number of travel agencies available for us to market and sell our cruises, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 28 table of contents disruptions in our shoreside operations or our information systems may adversely affect our results of operations. our principal executive office and principal shoreside operations are located at the port of miami, florida and we have shoreside offices throughout the world. actual or threatened natural disasters (e.g., hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, fires, floods) or similar events in these locations may have a material impact on our business continuity, reputation and results of operations. in addition, substantial or repeated information systems failures, computer viruses or cyber-attacks impacting our shoreside or shipboard operations could adversely impact our business. we do not generally carry business interruption insurance for our shoreside operations or our information systems. as such, any losses or damages incurred by us could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. failure to develop the value of our brands and differentiate our products could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends on the strength and continued development of our cruise brands and on the effectiveness of our brand strategies. failure to protect and differentiate our brands from competitors throughout the vacation market could adversely affect our results of operations. the loss of key personnel, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel, or disruptions among our shipboard personnel due to strained employee relations could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends, in large part, on the skills and contributions of key executives and other employees, and on our ability to recruit and retain high quality personnel in key markets. we must continue to sufficiently recruit, retain, train and motivate our employees to maintain our current business and support our projected global growth. furthermore, as of december 31, 2014, 86% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. a dispute under our collective bargaining agreements could result in a work stoppage of those employees covered by the agreements. a loss of key employees or disruptions among our personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. business activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may subject us to additional risks. partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties, such as our joint venture to operate tui cruises, our new partnership to operate skysea cruises, our investment in grand bahama shipyard and our minority ownership investments in various port development and other projects, generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. in addition, actions by another investor may present additional risks of operational difficulties or reputational or legal concerns. these or other issues related to our co-investment with third parties could adversely impact our operations. we rely on third-party providers of various services integral to the operations of our businesses. these third parties may act in ways that could harm our business. in order to achieve cost and operational efficiencies, we outsource to third-party vendors certain services that are integral to the operations of our global businesses, such as our onboard concessionaires, certain of our call center operations and operation of a large part of our information technology systems. we are subject to the risk that certain decisions are subject to the control of our third-party service providers and that these decisions may adversely affect our activities. a failure to adequately monitor a third-party service provider's compliance with a service level agreement or regulatory or legal requirements could result in significant economic and reputational harm to us. there is also a risk the confidentiality, privacy and/or security of data held by third parties or communicated over third-party networks or platforms could become compromised. 29 table of contents a failure to keep pace with developments in technology or technological obsolescence could impair our operations or competitive position. our business continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems. these technologies and systems must be refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems in order to continue to meet our customers' demands and expectations. if we are unable to do so in a timely manner or within reasonable cost parameters or if we are unable to appropriately and timely train our employees to operate any of these new systems, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. we may be exposed to risks and costs associated with cyber security, including protecting the integrity and security of our guests' and employees' personal information. we are subject to various risks associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of sensitive information, including risks related to compliance with applicable laws and other contractual obligations, as well as the risk that our systems collecting such information could be compromised. in the course of doing business, we collect large volumes of internal and customer data, including personally identifiable information for various business purposes. if we fail to comply with the various applicable data collection and privacy laws, we could be exposed to fines, penalties, restrictions, litigation or other expenses, and our business could be adversely impacted. in addition, even if we are fully compliant with legal standards and contractual requirements, we still may not be able to prevent security breaches involving sensitive data. any breach, theft, loss, or fraudulent use of guest, employee or company data could adversely impact our reputation and brand and our ability to retain or attract new customers, and expose us to risks of data loss, business disruption, governmental investigation, litigation and other liability, any of which could adversely affect our business. significant capital investments and other expenditures could be required to remedy the problem and prevent future breaches, including costs associated with additional security technologies, personnel, experts and credit monitoring services for those whose data has been breached. additionally, the techniques and sophistication used to conduct cyber-attacks and breaches of information technology systems, as well as the sources and targets of these attacks, change frequently and are often not recognized until such attacks are launched or have been in place for a period of time. our security measures cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in preventing such breaches. a change in our tax status under the united states internal revenue code, or other jurisdictions, may have adverse effects on our income . we and a number of our subsidiaries are foreign corporations that derive income from a united states trade or business and/or from sources within the united states. drinker biddle &amp; reath llp, our united states tax counsel, has delivered to us an opinion, based on certain representations and assumptions set forth in it, to the effect that this income, to the extent derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, is exempt from united states federal income tax pursuant to section 883 of the internal revenue code. we believe that most of our income (including that of our subsidiaries) is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships. our ability to rely on section 883 could change in the future. provisions of the internal revenue code, including section 883, are subject to legislative change at any time. moreover, changes could occur in the future with respect to the identity, residence or holdings of our direct or indirect shareholders, trading volume or trading frequency of our shares, or relevant foreign tax laws of liberia or malta such that they no longer qualify as equivalent exemption jurisdictions, that could affect our eligibility for the section 883 exemption. accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be exempt from united states income tax on united states source shipping income in the future. if we were not entitled to the benefit of section 883, we and our subsidiaries would be subject to united states taxation on a portion of the income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships, which would reduce our net income. additionally, portions of our business are operated by companies that are within tonnage tax regimes of the u.k. and malta. further, some of the operations of these companies are conducted in jurisdictions where we rely on tax 30 table of contents treaties to provide exemption from taxation. to the extent the tonnage tax laws of these countries change or we do not continue to meet the applicable qualification requirements or if tax treaties are changed or revoked, we may be required to pay higher income tax in these jurisdictions, adversely impacting our results of operations. as budgetary constraints continue to adversely impact the jurisdictions in which we operate, increases in income tax regulations or tax reform affecting our operations may be imposed. we are not a united states corporation and our shareholders may be subject to the uncertainties of a foreign legal system in protecting their interests. our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the business corporation act of liberia. the provisions of the business corporation act of liberia resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the united states. however, while most states have a fairly well developed body of case law interpreting their respective corporate statutes, there are very few judicial cases in liberia interpreting the business corporation act of liberia. as such, the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under liberian law are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain united states jurisdictions. for example, the right of shareholders to bring a derivative action in liberian courts may be more limited than in united states jurisdictions. there may also be practical difficulties for shareholders attempting to bring suit in liberia and liberian courts may or may not recognize and enforce foreign judgments. thus, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests with respect to actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a united states jurisdiction. litigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and/or damage our reputation. our business is subject to various united states and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. in addition, improper conduct by our employees, agents or joint venture partners could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. in certain circumstances it may not be economical to defend against such matters and/or a legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. provisions of our articles of incorporation, by-laws and liberian law could inhibit others from acquiring us, prevent a change of control, and may prevent efforts by our shareholders to change our management. certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws and liberian law may inhibit third parties from effectuating a change of control of the company without board approval which could result in the entrenchment of current management. these include provisions in our articles of incorporation that prevent third parties, other than a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates, from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of our outstanding shares without the consent of our board of directors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for more information. environmental, labor, health and safety, financial responsibility and other maritime regulations could affect operations and increase operating costs. the united states and various state and foreign government or regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations or policies, such as requiring the use of low sulfur fuels, increasing fuel efficiency requirements, further restricting emissions, or other initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions that could increase our cost for fuel, limit the supply of compliant fuel, cause us to incur significant expenses to purchase and/or develop 26 table of contents new equipment and adversely impact the cruise vacation industry. while we have taken and expect to continue to take a number of actions to mitigate the potential impact of certain of these regulations, there can be no assurances that these efforts will be successful. some environmental groups have also lobbied for more stringent regulation of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise vacation industry and its environmental impact. see item 1. business-regulation-environmental regulations . an increase in fuel prices not only impacts our fuel costs, but also some of our other expenses, such as crew travel, freight and commodity prices. in addition, we are subject to various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties that govern, among other things, safety standards applicable to our ships, treatment of disabled persons, health and sanitary standards applicable to our guests, security standards on board our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities to our guests. these issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. this could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that could subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. conducting business globally may result in increased costs and other risks. we operate our business globally. operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including increased exposure to a wider range of regional and local economic conditions, volatile local political conditions, potential changes in duties and taxes, including changing and/or uncertain interpretations of existing tax laws and regulations, required compliance with additional laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses or governing the operations of foreign-based companies, currency fluctuations, interest rate movements, difficulties in operating under local business environments, port quality and availability in certain regions, u.s. and global anti-bribery laws or regulations, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings. we have recently expanded our presence in china and, accordingly, our exposure to the risks of doing business in the country. china's economy differs from the economies of other developed countries in many respects and, as the legal system in china continues to evolve, there may be greater uncertainty as to the interpretation and enforcement of applicable laws and regulations. operating globally also exposes us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal, regulatory and tax requirements. in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business communities might not conform to international business standards. we must adhere to policies designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance as well as applicable laws and regulations. however, we might not be successful in ensuring that our employees, agents, representatives and other third parties with which we associate throughout the world properly adhere to them. failure by us, our employees or any of these third parties to adhere to our policies or applicable laws or regulations could result in penalties, sanctions, damage to our reputation and related costs which in turn could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to address these risks adequately, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected, including potentially impairing the value of our ships, goodwill and other assets. our attempts to expand our business into new markets may not be successful. while our historical focus has been to serve the north american cruise market, we have expanded our focus to increase our international guest sourcing, including sourcing from the asian, latin american, and australian markets. expansion into new markets requires significant levels of investment. there can be no assurance that these markets will develop as anticipated or that we will have success in these markets, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations, including potentially impairing the value of our goodwill. ship construction, repair or upgrade delays or mechanical faults may result in cancellation of cruises or unscheduled drydocks and repairs and thus adversely affect our results of operations. we depend on shipyards to construct, repair and upgrade our cruise ships on a timely basis and in good working order. the sophisticated nature of building a ship involves risks. delays in ship construction or upgrades or mechanical faults have in the past and may in the future result in delays or cancellation of cruises or necessitate unscheduled 27 table of contents drydocks and repairs of ships. these events and any related adverse publicity could result in lost revenue, increased operating expenses, or both, and thus adversely affect our results of operations. shipyards and their subcontractors may experience financial difficulties or consolidation which could cause or result in delay, ship cancellations, our inability to procure new capacity in a timely fashion or increases in shipbuilding costs that could adversely affect our results of operations. we rely on shipyards to construct, repair and upgrade our ships. financial difficulties, liquidations or closures suffered by these shipyards and/or their subcontractors may impact the timely delivery or costs of new ships or the ability of shipyards to repair and upgrade our fleet in accordance with our needs or expectations. in addition, there are a limited number of shipyards with the capability and capacity to build our new ships and, accordingly, consolidation in the cruise shipyard industry could impact our ability to construct new ships when and as planned and/or could result in stronger bargaining power on the part of the shipyards and thus higher prices for our future ship orders. delivery delays and canceled deliveries can adversely affect our results of operations, as can any constraints on our ability to build, repair and maintain our ships on a timely basis. our operating costs could increase due to market forces and economic or geo- political factors beyond our control. our operating costs, including fuel, food, payroll, airfare, taxes, insurance and security costs are all subject to increases due to market forces and economic or political conditions or other factors beyond our control. increases in these operating costs could adversely affect our profitability. unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our results of operations . we believe that port destinations are a major reason why guests choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. the availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including existing capacity constraints, constraints related to the size of certain ships, security concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, local governmental regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists. in addition, rising fuel costs may adversely impact the destinations on certain of our itineraries. any limitations on the availability or feasibility of our ports of call or on the availability of shore excursion and other service providers at such ports could adversely affect our results of operations. price increases for commercial airline service for our guests or major changes or reduction in commercial airline service and/or availability could adversely impact the demand for cruises and undermine our ability to provide reasonably priced vacation packages to our guests. many of our guests depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to or from the ports where our cruises embark or disembark. increases in the price of airfare would increase the overall price of the cruise vacation to our guests which may adversely impact demand for our cruises. in addition, changes in the availability of commercial airline services could adversely affect our guests' ability to obtain airfare as well as our ability to fly our guests to or from our cruise ships which could adversely affect our results of operations. our reliance on travel agencies to sell and market our cruises exposes us to certain risks which, if realized, could adversely impact our business. because we rely on travel agencies to generate the majority of bookings for our ships, we must ensure that our commission rates and incentive structures remain competitive. if we fail to offer competitive compensation packages, these agencies may be incentivized to sell cruises offered by our competitors to our detriment, which could adversely impact our operating results. in addition, the travel agent industry is sensitive to economic conditions that impact discretionary income. significant disruptions, especially disruptions impacting those agencies that sell a high volume of our business, or contractions in the industry could reduce the number of travel agencies available for us to market and sell our cruises, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 28 table of contents disruptions in our shoreside operations or our information systems may adversely affect our results of operations. our principal executive office and principal shoreside operations are located at the port of miami, florida and we have shoreside offices throughout the world. actual or threatened natural disasters (e.g., hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, fires, floods) or similar events in these locations may have a material impact on our business continuity, reputation and results of operations. in addition, substantial or repeated information systems failures, computer viruses or cyber-attacks impacting our shoreside or shipboard operations could adversely impact our business. we do not generally carry business interruption insurance for our shoreside operations or our information systems. as such, any losses or damages incurred by us could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. failure to develop the value of our brands and differentiate our products could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends on the strength and continued development of our cruise brands and on the effectiveness of our brand strategies. failure to protect and differentiate our brands from competitors throughout the vacation market could adversely affect our results of operations. the loss of key personnel, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel, or disruptions among our shipboard personnel due to strained employee relations could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends, in large part, on the skills and contributions of key executives and other employees, and on our ability to recruit and retain high quality personnel in key markets. we must continue to sufficiently recruit, retain, train and motivate our employees to maintain our current business and support our projected global growth. furthermore, as of december 31, 2014, 86% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. a dispute under our collective bargaining agreements could result in a work stoppage of those employees covered by the agreements. a loss of key employees or disruptions among our personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. business activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may subject us to additional risks. partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties, such as our joint venture to operate tui cruises, our new partnership to operate skysea cruises, our investment in grand bahama shipyard and our minority ownership investments in various port development and other projects, generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. in addition, actions by another investor may present additional risks of operational difficulties or reputational or legal concerns. these or other issues related to our co-investment with third parties could adversely impact our operations. we rely on third-party providers of various services integral to the operations of our businesses. these third parties may act in ways that could harm our business. in order to achieve cost and operational efficiencies, we outsource to third-party vendors certain services that are integral to the operations of our global businesses, such as our onboard concessionaires, certain of our call center operations and operation of a large part of our information technology systems. we are subject to the risk that certain decisions are subject to the control of our third-party service providers and that these decisions may adversely affect our activities. a failure to adequately monitor a third-party service provider's compliance with a service level agreement or regulatory or legal requirements could result in significant economic and reputational harm to us. there is also a risk the confidentiality, privacy and/or security of data held by third parties or communicated over third-party networks or platforms could become compromised. 29 table of contents a failure to keep pace with developments in technology or technological obsolescence could impair our operations or competitive position. our business continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems. these technologies and systems must be refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems in order to continue to meet our customers' demands and expectations. if we are unable to do so in a timely manner or within reasonable cost parameters or if we are unable to appropriately and timely train our employees to operate any of these new systems, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. we may be exposed to risks and costs associated with cyber security, including protecting the integrity and security of our guests' and employees' personal information. we are subject to various risks associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of sensitive information, including risks related to compliance with applicable laws and other contractual obligations, as well as the risk that our systems collecting such information could be compromised. in the course of doing business, we collect large volumes of internal and customer data, including personally identifiable information for various business purposes. if we fail to comply with the various applicable data collection and privacy laws, we could be exposed to fines, penalties, restrictions, litigation or other expenses, and our business could be adversely impacted. in addition, even if we are fully compliant with legal standards and contractual requirements, we still may not be able to prevent security breaches involving sensitive data. any breach, theft, loss, or fraudulent use of guest, employee or company data could adversely impact our reputation and brand and our ability to retain or attract new customers, and expose us to risks of data loss, business disruption, governmental investigation, litigation and other liability, any of which could adversely affect our business. significant capital investments and other expenditures could be required to remedy the problem and prevent future breaches, including costs associated with additional security technologies, personnel, experts and credit monitoring services for those whose data has been breached. additionally, the techniques and sophistication used to conduct cyber-attacks and breaches of information technology systems, as well as the sources and targets of these attacks, change frequently and are often not recognized until such attacks are launched or have been in place for a period of time. our security measures cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in preventing such breaches. a change in our tax status under the united states internal revenue code, or other jurisdictions, may have adverse effects on our income . we and a number of our subsidiaries are foreign corporations that derive income from a united states trade or business and/or from sources within the united states. drinker biddle &amp; reath llp, our united states tax counsel, has delivered to us an opinion, based on certain representations and assumptions set forth in it, to the effect that this income, to the extent derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, is exempt from united states federal income tax pursuant to section 883 of the internal revenue code. we believe that most of our income (including that of our subsidiaries) is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships. our ability to rely on section 883 could change in the future. provisions of the internal revenue code, including section 883, are subject to legislative change at any time. moreover, changes could occur in the future with respect to the identity, residence or holdings of our direct or indirect shareholders, trading volume or trading frequency of our shares, or relevant foreign tax laws of liberia or malta such that they no longer qualify as equivalent exemption jurisdictions, that could affect our eligibility for the section 883 exemption. accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be exempt from united states income tax on united states source shipping income in the future. if we were not entitled to the benefit of section 883, we and our subsidiaries would be subject to united states taxation on a portion of the income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships, which would reduce our net income. additionally, portions of our business are operated by companies that are within tonnage tax regimes of the u.k. and malta. further, some of the operations of these companies are conducted in jurisdictions where we rely on tax 30 table of contents treaties to provide exemption from taxation. to the extent the tonnage tax laws of these countries change or we do not continue to meet the applicable qualification requirements or if tax treaties are changed or revoked, we may be required to pay higher income tax in these jurisdictions, adversely impacting our results of operations. as budgetary constraints continue to adversely impact the jurisdictions in which we operate, increases in income tax regulations or tax reform affecting our operations may be imposed. we are not a united states corporation and our shareholders may be subject to the uncertainties of a foreign legal system in protecting their interests. our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the business corporation act of liberia. the provisions of the business corporation act of liberia resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the united states. however, while most states have a fairly well developed body of case law interpreting their respective corporate statutes, there are very few judicial cases in liberia interpreting the business corporation act of liberia. as such, the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under liberian law are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain united states jurisdictions. for example, the right of shareholders to bring a derivative action in liberian courts may be more limited than in united states jurisdictions. there may also be practical difficulties for shareholders attempting to bring suit in liberia and liberian courts may or may not recognize and enforce foreign judgments. thus, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests with respect to actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a united states jurisdiction. litigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and/or damage our reputation. our business is subject to various united states and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. in addition, improper conduct by our employees, agents or joint venture partners could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. in certain circumstances it may not be economical to defend against such matters and/or a legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. provisions of our articles of incorporation, by-laws and liberian law could inhibit others from acquiring us, prevent a change of control, and may prevent efforts by our shareholders to change our management. certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws and liberian law may inhibit third parties from effectuating a change of control of the company without board approval which could result in the entrenchment of current management. these include provisions in our articles of incorporation that prevent third parties, other than a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates, from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of our outstanding shares without the consent of our board of directors. item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties information about our cruise ships, including their size and primary areas of operation, may be found within the operating strategies - fleet upgrade, maintenance and expansion section and the operations - cruise ships and itineraries section in item 1 . business . information regarding our cruise ships under construction, estimated expenditures and financing may be found within the future capital commitments and funding needs and sources sections of item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 31 table of contents our principal executive office and principal shoreside operations are located at the port of miami, florida where we lease three office buildings totaling approximately 361,800 square feet from miami-dade county, florida, under long-term leases with current terms expiring in 2021. these leases may be extended for an additional ten years under two five year options. we lease one office building in the united kingdom totaling approximately 24,000 square feet used to conduct our operations in the united kingdom. we also lease a number of international offices throughout europe, asia, mexico, south america and australia to administer our brand operations globally. we lease an office building in springfield, oregon totaling approximately 163,000 square feet, which is used as a call center for reservations. in addition, we own one office building totaling approximately 95,000 square feet in wichita, kansas, which is used as a call center for reservations and customer service. we lease two buildings in miramar, florida totaling approximately 179,000 square feet. one building is used primarily as office space and the other building is used as a call center for reservations. we lease our logistics center in weston, florida totaling approximately 267,000 square feet. we believe that our facilities are adequate for our current needs and that we are capable of obtaining additional facilities as necessary. we also operate two private destinations which we utilize as a port-of-call on certain of our itineraries: (i) an island we own in the bahamas which we call cococay; and (ii) labadee, a secluded peninsula we lease on the north coast of haiti. item 3. legal proceedings a c lass action complaint was filed in june 2011 against royal caribbean cruises ltd. in the united states district court for the southern district of florida on behalf of a purported class of stateroom attendants employed onboard royal caribbean international cruise vessels. the complaint alleged that the stateroom attendants were required to pay other crew members to help with their duties and that certain stateroom attendants were required to work back of house assignments without the ability to earn gratuities, in each case, in violation of the u.s. seaman's wage act. in may 2012, the district court granted our motion to dismiss the complaint on the basis that the applicable collective bargaining agreement requires any such claims to be arbitrated. the united states court of appeals, 11th circuit, affirmed the district court's dismissal and denied the plaintiffs' petition for re-hearing and re-hearing en banc. in october 2014, the united states supreme court denied the plaintiffs' request to review the order compelling arbitration. subsequently, approximately 575 crew members submitted demands for arbitration. the demands make substantially the same allegations as in the federal court complaint and are similarly seeking damages, wage penalties and interest in an indeterminate amount. unlike the federal court complaint, the demands for arbitration are being brought individually by each of the crew members and not on behalf of a purported class of stateroom attendants. at this time, we are unable to estimate the possible impact of this matter on us. however, we believe the underlying claims made against us are without merit, and we intend to vigorously defend ourselves against them. we are routinely involved in other claims typical within the cruise vacation industry. the majority of these claims are covered by insurance. we believe the outcome of such claims, net of expected insurance recoveries, will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations and cash flows. item 4. mine safety disclosures none. 32 table of contents part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities market information our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange ("nyse") and the oslo stock exchange ("ose") under the symbol "rcl". the table below sets forth the high and low sales prices of our common stock as reported by the nyse and the ose for the two most recent years by quarter: nyse common stock ose common stock (1) high low high low 2014 fourth quarter $83.90 $52.32 638.00 347.00 third quarter $69.31 $53.66 439.60 332.00 second quarter $57.38 $49.65 349.00 300.00 first quarter $54.93 $45.95 332.60 284.20 2013 fourth quarter $47.66 $35.97 292.60 216.10 third quarter $40.71 $33.31 241.80 201.40 second quarter $38.62 $31.35 224.90 178.00 first quarter $38.56 $31.72 213.50 184.10 _______________________________________________________________________________ (1) denominated in norwegian kroner, as listed in the price history database available at www.oslobors.no holders as of february 12, 2015 there were 961 record holders of our common stock. since certain of our shares are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of shareholders, the foregoing number is not representative of the number of beneficial owners. dividends in 2013 , we declared cash dividends on our common stock of $0.12 per share during the first and second quarters of 2013 . we increased the dividend amount to $0.25 per share for the dividends declared in the third and fourth quarters of 2013 and the first and second quarters of 2014 . the dividend amount was increased to $0.30 per share for the dividends declared in the third and fourth quarters of 2014 . holders of our common stock have an equal right to share in our profits in the form of dividends when and if declared by our board of directors out of funds legally available. holders of our common stock have no rights to any sinking fund. there are no exchange control restrictions on remittances of dividends on our common stock since (1) we are and intend to maintain our status as a nonresident liberian entity under the liberia revenue code of 2000 as amended and the regulations thereunder, and (2) our ship-owning subsidiaries are not now engaged, and are not in the future expected to engage, in any business in liberia, including voyages exclusively within the territorial waters of the republic of liberia. under current liberian law, no liberian taxes or withholding will be imposed on payments to holders of our securities other than to a holder that is a resident liberian entity or a resident individual or an individual or entity subject to taxation in liberia as a result of having a permanent establishment within the meaning of the liberia revenue code of 2000 as amended in liberia. the declaration of dividends shall at all times be subject to the final determination of our board of directors that a dividend is prudent at that time in consideration of the needs of the business. 33 table of contents stock repurchases the following table presents the total number of shares of our common stock that we repurchased during the quarter ended december 31, 2014: period total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs november 1, 2014-november 30, 2014 (1) 3,500,000 $67.45 total this quarter 3,500,000 $67.45 (1) as previously announced on form 8-k, in november 2014, we repurchased 3.5 million shares of our common stock directly from our largest shareholder, awilhelmsen as, in a private transaction. the closing of the share repurchase was subject to awilhelmsen as having completed a sale of an additional 3.5 million shares to a financial institution in a market transaction pursuant to rule 144 of the securities act (the secondary sale ). the price we paid in connection with the share repurchase was equal to the price paid by the financial institution to awilhelmsen as in connection with the secondary sale. performance graph the following graph compares the total return, assuming reinvestment of dividends, on an investment in the company, based on performance of the company's common stock, with the total return of the standard &amp; poor's 500 composite stock index and the dow jones united states travel and leisure index for a five year period by measuring the changes in common stock prices from december 31, 2009 to december 31, 2014 . 34 table of contents 12/09 12/10 12/11 12/12 12/13 12/14 royal caribbean cruises ltd . 100.00 185.92 98.79 137.68 195.65 346.17 s&amp;p 500 100.00 115.06 117.49 136.30 180.44 205.14 dow jones us travel &amp; leisure 100.00 141.39 150.84 170.95 248.70 289.40 the stock performance graph assumes for comparison that the value of the company's common stock and of each index was $100 on december 31, 2009 and that all dividends were reinvested. past performance is not necessarily an indicator of future results. 35 table of contents item 6. selected financial data the selected consolidated financial data presented below for the years 2010 through 2014 and as of the end of each such year are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements and should be read in conjunction with those financial statements and the related notes as well as in conjunction with item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . year ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 (in thousands, except per share data) operating data: total revenues $ 8,073,855 $ 7,959,894 $ 7,688,024 $ 7,537,263 $ 6,752,504 operating income (1)(3) $ 941,859 $ 798,148 $ 403,110 $ 931,628 $ 802,633 net income (1)(2)(3) $ 764,146 $ 473,692 $ 18,287 $ 607,421 $ 515,653 per share data basic: net income $ 3.45 $ 2.16 $ 0.08 $ 2.80 $ 2.40 weighted-average shares 221,658 219,638 217,930 216,983 215,026 per share data diluted: net income $ 3.43 $ 2.14 $ 0.08 $ 2.77 $ 2.37 weighted-average shares and potentially dilutive shares 223,044 220,941 219,457 219,229 217,711 dividends declared per common share $ 1.10 $ 0.74 $ 0.44 $ 0.20 $ balance sheet data: total assets $ 20,713,190 $ 20,072,947 $ 19,827,930 $ 19,804,405 $ 19,653,829 total debt, including capital leases $ 8,443,948 $ 8,074,804 $ 8,489,947 $ 8,495,853 $ 9,150,116 common stock $ 2,331 $ 2,308 $ 2,291 $ 2,276 $ 2,262 total shareholders' equity $ 8,284,359 $ 8,808,265 $ 8,308,749 $ 8,407,823 $ 7,900,752 _______________________________________________________________________________ (1) amounts for 2014 include restructuring charges of $4.3 million . amounts for 2013 include restructuring charges of $23.4 million and an impairment charge of $33.5 million to write down the assets held for sale related to the pullmantur non-core businesses and certain long-lived assets, consisting of aircraft owned and operated by pullmantur air, to their fair value (see note 16. restructuring and related impairment charges to our consolidated financial statements under quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments and other general we are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and fuel prices. we manage these risks through a combination of our normal operating and financing activities and through the use of derivative financial instruments pursuant to our hedging practices and policies. the financial impact of these hedging instruments is primarily offset by corresponding changes in the underlying exposures being hedged. we achieve this by closely matching the amount, term and conditions of the derivative instrument with the underlying risk being hedged. although certain of our derivative financial instruments do not qualify or are not accounted for under hedge accounting, we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. we monitor our derivative positions using techniques including market valuations and sensitivity analyses. (see note 14. fair value measurements and derivative instruments to our consolidated financial statements underrisk factors 24 risk factors the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k are important factors that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historical results. it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks. the risks described below are only those known risks relating to our operations and financial condition that we consider material. there may be additional risks that we consider not to be material, or which are not known, and any of these risks could have the effects set forth below. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for a cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements. adverse worldwide economic, geopolitical or other conditions could reduce the demand for cruises and passenger spending, adversely impacting our operating results, cash flows and financial condition including potentially impairing the value of our ships and other assets. the demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic and geopolitical conditions. weak or uncertain economic conditions impact consumer confidence and pose a risk as vacationers may postpone or reduce discretionary spending. this, in turn, may result in cruise booking slowdowns, decreased cruise prices and lower onboard revenues for us and for others in the cruise industry, as experienced in the most recent financial crisis. given the global nature of our business, we are exposed to many different economies. as a result, gains from favorable economic conditions in certain of our markets may be offset by challenging conditions in other of our markets. for example, recent weakness in the economies of latin america has adversely impacted the pullmantur brand and our results of operations, partially mitigating positive economic conditions in other key markets. any significant deterioration of global, national or local economic conditions could result in a prolonged period of booking slowdowns, depressed cruise prices and reduced onboard revenues. demand for our cruises is also influenced by geopolitical events. unfavorable conditions, such as cross-border conflicts, civil unrest and governmental changes, especially in regions with popular ports of call, can undermine consumer demand and/or pricing for itineraries featuring these ports. significant or prolonged unrest and economic instability could materially adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition including potentially impairing the value of our ships and other assets. fears of terrorist and pirate attacks, war, and other hostilities and the spread of contagious diseases could have a negative impact on our results of operations. events such as terrorist and pirate attacks, war, and other hostilities, including the continued escalation of tensions in the middle east and recent global terrorism incidents, and the resulting political instability, travel restrictions and advisories, the spread of contagious diseases, such as the zika virus, and concerns over safety, health and security aspects of traveling or the fear of any of the foregoing, have had, and could have in the future, a significant adverse impact on demand and pricing in the travel and vacation industry. in view of our global operations, we are susceptible to a wider range of adverse events. our operating costs could increase due to market forces and economic or geo-political factors beyond our control. our operating costs, including fuel, food, payroll and benefits, airfare, taxes, insurance and security costs are all subject to increases due to market forces and economic or political conditions or other factors beyond our control. increases in these operating costs could adversely affect our profitability. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, fuel costs and interest rates could affect our financial results. we are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, fuel prices and changes in interest rates. high levels of volatility with respect to any of the foregoing could have a material impact on our financial results, net of the impact of our hedging activities and other natural offsets. our operating results have been and will continue to be impacted, often significantly, by changes in each of these factors. for example, in 2015, the strengthening of the us dollar had a material negative impact on the value of our earnings in foreign currencies. in 24 table of contents addition, while interest rates have been near historical lows for several years, there are indications that prevailing rates may increase in 2016. as a substantial portion of our indebtedness accrues interest at a variable rate, any significant increase in rates would adversely impact our operating results. similarly, any significant increase in fuel prices, which currently are near historical lows, would adversely impact our results of operations. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for more information. conducting business globally may result in increased costs and other risks. we operate our business globally. operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including increased exposure to a wider range of regional and local economic conditions, volatile local political conditions, potential changes in duties and taxes, including changing and/or uncertain interpretations of existing tax laws and regulations, required compliance with additional laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses or governing the operations of foreign-based companies, currency fluctuations, interest rate movements, difficulties in operating under local business environments, port quality and availability in certain regions, u.s. and global anti-bribery laws or regulations, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings. we have recently expanded our presence in china and, accordingly, our exposure to the risks of doing business in the country. china's economy differs from the economies of other developed countries in many respects and, as the legal system in china continues to evolve, there may be greater uncertainty as to the interpretation and enforcement of applicable laws and regulations. operating globally also exposes us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal, regulatory and tax requirements. in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business communities might not conform to international business standards. we must adhere to policies designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance as well as applicable laws and regulations. however, we might not be successful in ensuring that our employees, agents, representatives and other third parties with whom we associate throughout the world properly adhere to them. failure by us, our employees or any of these third parties to adhere to our policies or applicable laws or regulations could result in penalties, sanctions, damage to our reputation and related costs which in turn could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to address these risks adequately, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected, including potentially impairing the value of our ships and other assets. price increases for commercial airline service for our guests or major changes or reduction in commercial airline service and/or availability could adversely impact the demand for cruises and undermine our ability to provide reasonably priced vacation packages to our guests. many of our guests depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to or from the ports where our cruises embark or disembark. increases in the price of airfare would increase the overall price of the cruise vacation to our guests which may adversely impact demand for our cruises. in addition, changes in the availability of commercial airline services could adversely affect our guests' ability to obtain airfare as well as our ability to fly our guests to or from our cruise ships which could adversely affect our results of operations. incidents or adverse publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry, unusual weather conditions and other natural disasters or disruptions could affect our reputation as well as impact our sales and results of operations. the ownership and/or operation of cruise ships, airplanes, land tours, port facilities and shore excursions involves the risk of accidents, illnesses, mechanical failures, environmental incidents and other incidents which may bring into question safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction which could negatively impact our reputation. incidents involving cruise ships, and, in particular the safety and security of guests and crew and media coverage thereof have impacted and could in the future impact demand for our cruises and pricing in the industry. our reputation and our business could also be damaged by negative publicity regarding the cruise industry in general, including publicity regarding potentially adverse environmental impacts of cruising. the considerable expansion in the use of social media and digital marketing over recent years has compounded the potential scope of any negative publicity. if any such incident or news cycle occurs during a time of high seasonal demand, the effect could disproportionately impact our 25 table of contents results of operations for the year. in addition, incidents involving cruise ships may result in additional costs to our business, increasing government or other regulatory oversight and, in the case of incidents involving our ships, potential litigation. our cruise ships and port facilities may also be adversely impacted by unusual weather patterns or natural disasters or disruptions, such as hurricanes. we are often forced to alter itineraries and occasionally to cancel a cruise or a series of cruises due to these or other factors, which could have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. increases in the frequency, severity or duration of severe weather events, including from changes in the global climate, could exacerbate the impact and cause further disruption to our operations. in addition, these and any other events which impact the travel industry more generally may negatively impact our ability to deliver guests or crew to our cruises and/or interrupt our ability to obtain services and goods from key vendors in our supply chain. any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and on industry performance. an increase in capacity worldwide or excess capacity in a particular market could adversely impact our cruise sales and/or pricing. although our ships can be redeployed, cruise sales and/or pricing may be impacted both by the introduction of new ships into the marketplace and by deployment decisions of ourselves and our competitors. a total of 44 new ships with approximately 139,000 berths are on order for delivery through 2020 in the cruise industry. the further growth in capacity from these new ships and future orders, without an increase in the cruise industry's share of the vacation market, could depress cruise prices and impede our ability to achieve yield improvement. in addition, to the extent that we or our competitors deploy ships to a particular itinerary and the resulting capacity in that region exceeds the demand, we may lower pricing and profitability may be lower than anticipated. this risk may be amplified in emerging cruise markets, such as china, where we expect a significant increase in capacity over a relatively short time horizon. any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition including potentially impairing the value of our ships and other assets. unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our results of operations . we believe that port destinations are a major reason why guests choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. the availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including existing capacity constraints, constraints related to the size of certain ships, security, environmental and health concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, local governmental regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists. in addition, fuel costs may adversely impact the destinations on certain of our itineraries. any limitations on the availability or feasibility of our ports of call or on the availability of shore excursion and other service providers at such ports could adversely affect our results of operations. shipyard unavailability may adversely affect our ability to grow our business as planned and our results of operations. we rely on shipyards to construct our new ships and to repair and upgrade our existing ships. there are a limited number of shipyards with the capability and capacity to build our new ships and, accordingly, increased demand for available new construction slots could impact our ability to construct new ships when and as planned, cause us to commit to new ship orders earlier than we have historically done so and/or result in stronger bargaining power on the part of the shipyards and thus higher prices for our future ship orders. our inability to timely and cost-effectively procure new capacity could have a significant negative impact on our future business plans and results of operations. in addition, financial difficulties, liquidations or closures suffered by shipyards and/or their subcontractors may impact the timely delivery or costs of new ships or the ability of shipyards to repair and upgrade our fleet in accordance with our needs or expectations. delivery delays and canceled deliveries can adversely affect our results of operations, as can any constraints on our ability to build, repair and maintain our ships on a timely or cost effective basis. 26 table of contents ship construction, repair or upgrade delays or mechanical faults may result in cancellation of cruises or unscheduled drydocks and repairs and thus adversely affect our results of operations. we depend on shipyards to construct, repair and upgrade our cruise ships on a timely basis and in good working order. the sophisticated nature of building a ship involves risks. delays in ship construction or upgrades or mechanical faults have in the past and may in the future result in delays or cancellation of cruises or necessitate unscheduled drydocks and repairs of ships. these events and any related adverse publicity could result in lost revenue, increased operating expenses, or both, and thus adversely affect our results of operations. we may lose business to competitors throughout the vacation market . we operate in the vacation market and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. we therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators, which provide other leisure options including hotels, resorts and package holidays and tours. we face significant competition from other cruise lines on the basis of cruise pricing, travel agent preference and also in terms of the nature of ships and services we offer to guests. our principal competitors within the cruise vacation industry include carnival corporation &amp; plc, which owns, among others, aida cruises, carnival cruise line, costa cruises, cunard line, holland america line, p&amp;o cruises and princess cruises; disney cruise line; msc cruises; norwegian cruise line holdings ltd which owns norwegian cruise line, oceania cruises and regent seven seas cruises. in the event that we do not differentiate our cruise brands from our competitors or otherwise compete effectively with other vacation alternatives and new or existing cruise companies, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. we may not be able to obtain sufficient financing or capital for our needs or may not be able to do so on terms that are acceptable or consistent with our expectations. to fund our capital expenditures and scheduled debt payments, we have historically relied on a combination of cash flows provided by operations, drawdowns under available credit facilities, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the sale of equity or debt securities in private or public securities markets. any circumstance or event which leads to a decrease in consumer cruise spending, such as worsening global economic conditions or significant incidents impacting the cruise industry, could negatively affect our operating cash flows. see - adverse worldwide economic, geopolitical or other conditions and - incidents or adverse publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry for more information. although we believe we can access sufficient liquidity to fund our operations and obligations as expected, there can be no assurances to that effect. our ability to access additional funding as and when needed, our ability to timely refinance and/or replace our outstanding debt securities and credit facilities on acceptable terms and our cost of funding will depend upon numerous factors including but not limited to the vibrancy of the financial markets, our financial performance and the performance of our industry in general. in addition, even where financing commitments have been secured, significant disruptions in the capital and credit markets could cause our banking and other counterparties to breach their contractual obligations to us. this could include failures of banks or other financial service companies to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements or to pay us amounts that may become due under our derivative contracts for hedging of fuel prices, interest rates and foreign currencies or other agreements. if any of the foregoing occurs it may have a negative impact on our cash flows, including our ability to meet our obligations, our results of operations and our financial condition. our inability to satisfy the covenants required by our credit facilities could adversely impact our liquidity. our debt agreements contain covenants, including covenants restricting our ability to take certain actions and financial covenants. in addition, our ability to make borrowings under our available credit facilities is subject to the absence of material adverse changes in our business. our ability to maintain our credit facilities may also be impacted 27 table of contents by changes in our ownership base. more specifically, we may be required to prepay our ship financing facilities if (i) any person or entity other than a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates and their respective affiliates (the applicable group ) acquires ownership of more than 33% of our common stock and the applicable group owns less of our common stock than such person or (ii) subject to certain exceptions, during any 24-month period, a majority of the board is no longer comprised of individuals who were members of the board on the first day of such period. our other debt agreements also contain change of control provisions that would be triggered by the acquisition of greater than 50% of our common stock by (i) any person or (ii) in the case of our public debt securities, a person other than a member of the applicable group coupled with a ratings downgrade. our failure to comply with the terms of our debt facilities could result in an event of default. generally, if an event of default under any debt agreement occurs, then pursuant to cross default acceleration clauses, our outstanding debt and derivative contract payables could become due and/or terminated. in addition, in such events, our credit card processors could hold back payments to create a reserve. we cannot provide assurances that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay or the ability to refinance the borrowings under any of the credit facilities or settle other outstanding contracts if such amounts were accelerated upon an event of default. if we are unable to appropriately balance our cost management and capital allocation strategies with our goal of satisfying guest expectations, it may adversely impact our business success. our goals call for us to provide high quality products and deliver high quality services. there can be no assurance that we can successfully balance these goals with our cost management and capital allocation strategies. our business also requires us to make capital allocation decisions, such as ordering new ships and/or upgrading our ships, based on expected market preferences and projected demand. there can be no assurance that our strategies will be successful, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. our attempts to expand our business into new markets and new ventures may not be successful. we opportunistically seek to grow our business through, among other things, expansion into new destination or source markets and establishment of new ventures complementary to our current offerings. these attempts to expand our business increase the complexity of our business, require significant levels of investment and can strain our management, personnel, operations and systems. there can be no assurance that these business expansion efforts will develop as anticipated or that we will succeed, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. our reliance on travel agencies to sell and market our cruises exposes us to certain risks which, if realized, could adversely impact our business. we rely on travel agencies to generate the majority of bookings for our ships. accordingly, we must ensure that our commission rates and incentive structures remain competitive. if we fail to offer competitive compensation packages, these agencies may be incentivized to sell cruises offered by our competitors to our detriment, which could adversely impact our operating results. our reliance on third-party sellers is particularly pronounced in certain markets, such as china, where we have a large number of travel agent charter and group sales and less retail agency and direct booking. refer to cruise pricing under item 1. business for further information on the china business model. in addition, the travel agent industry is sensitive to economic conditions that impact discretionary income. significant disruptions, especially disruptions impacting those agencies that sell a high volume of our business, or contractions in the industry could reduce the number of travel agencies available for us to market and sell our cruises, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. disruptions in our shoreside operations or our information systems may adversely affect our results of operations. our principal executive office and principal shoreside operations are located at the port of miami, florida and we have shoreside offices throughout the world. actual or threatened natural disasters (e.g., hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, fires, floods) or similar events in these locations may have a material impact on our business continuity, reputation and results of operations. in addition, substantial or repeated information systems failures, computer viruses 28 table of contents or cyber-attacks impacting our shoreside or shipboard operations could adversely impact our business. we do not generally carry business interruption insurance for our shoreside operations or our information systems. as such, any losses or damages incurred by us could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. the loss of key personnel, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel, or disruptions among our shipboard personnel due to strained employee relations could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends, in large part, on the skills and contributions of key executives and other employees, and on our ability to recruit and retain high quality personnel in key markets. we must continue to sufficiently recruit, retain, train and motivate our employees to maintain our current business and support our projected global growth both shoreside and on our ships. furthermore, as of december 31, 2015, 83% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. a dispute under our collective bargaining agreements could result in a work stoppage of those employees covered by the agreements. a loss of key employees, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel or disruptions among our personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. business activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may subject us to additional risks. partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties, such as our joint venture to operate tui cruises, our partnership to operate skysea cruises, our investment in grand bahama shipyard and our minority ownership investments in various port development and other projects, generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. in addition, actions by another investor may present additional risks of operational difficulties or reputational or legal concerns. these or other issues related to our co-investment with third parties could adversely impact our operations. we rely on third-party providers of various services integral to the operations of our businesses. these third parties may act in ways that could harm our business. in order to achieve cost and operational efficiencies, we outsource to third-party vendors certain services that are integral to the operations of our global businesses, such as our onboard concessionaires, certain of our call center operations and operation of a large part of our information technology systems. we are subject to the risk that certain decisions are subject to the control of our third-party service providers and that these decisions may adversely affect our activities. a failure to adequately monitor a third-party service provider's compliance with a service level agreement or regulatory or legal requirements could result in significant economic and reputational harm to us. there is also a risk the confidentiality, privacy and/or security of data held by third parties or communicated over third-party networks or platforms could become compromised. a failure to keep pace with developments in technology or technological obsolescence could impair our operations or competitive position. our business continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems. these technologies and systems must be refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems in order to continue to meet our customers' demands and expectations. if we are unable to do so in a timely manner or within reasonable cost parameters or if we are unable to appropriately and timely train our employees to operate any of these new systems, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. we may be exposed to risks and costs associated with cyber security, including protecting the integrity and security of our guests', employees' and business partners' personal information. we are subject to various risks associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of sensitive information, including risks related to compliance with applicable laws and other contractual obligations, as well as the risk that our systems collecting such information could be compromised. in the course of doing business, we collect 29 table of contents large volumes of internal and customer data, including personally identifiable information for various business purposes. we are subject to federal, state and international laws relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personally identifiable information. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between the company and its subsidiaries, and among the company, its subsidiaries and other parties with which the company has commercial relations. several jurisdictions have passed laws in this area, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. these laws continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. complying with emerging and changing international requirements may cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices. if we fail to comply with the various applicable data collection and privacy laws, we could be exposed to fines, penalties, restrictions, litigation or other expenses, and our business could be adversely impacted. in addition, even if we are fully compliant with legal standards and contractual requirements, we still may not be able to prevent security breaches involving sensitive data. any breach, theft, loss, or fraudulent use of guest, employee or company data could adversely impact our reputation and brand and our ability to retain or attract new customers, and expose us to risks of data loss, business disruption, governmental investigation, litigation and other liability, any of which could adversely affect our business. significant capital investments and other expenditures could be required to remedy the problem and prevent future breaches, including costs associated with additional security technologies, personnel, experts and credit monitoring services for those whose data has been breached. additionally, the techniques and sophistication used to conduct cyber-attacks and breaches of information technology systems, as well as the sources and targets of these attacks, change frequently and are often not recognized until such attacks are launched or have been in place for a period of time. our security measures cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in preventing such breaches. environmental, labor, health and safety, financial responsibility and other maritime regulations could affect operations and increase operating costs. the united states and various state and foreign government or regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations or policies, such as requiring the use of low sulfur fuels, increasing fuel efficiency requirements, further restricting emissions, or other initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions that could increase our direct cost to operate in certain markets, increase our cost for fuel, limit the supply of compliant fuel, cause us to incur significant expenses to purchase and/or develop new equipment and adversely impact the cruise vacation industry. while we have taken and expect to continue to take a number of actions to mitigate the potential impact of certain of these regulations, there can be no assurances that these efforts will be successful or completed on a timely basis. some environmental groups have also lobbied for more stringent regulation of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise vacation industry and its environmental impact. see item 1. business-regulation-environmental regulations . an increase in fuel prices not only impacts our fuel costs, but also some of our other expenses, such as crew travel, freight and commodity prices. in addition, we are subject to various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties that govern, among other things, safety standards applicable to our ships, treatment of disabled persons, health and sanitary standards applicable to our guests, security standards on board our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities to our guests. these issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. this could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that could subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. a change in our tax status under the united states internal revenue code, or other jurisdictions, may have adverse effects on our income . we and a number of our subsidiaries are foreign corporations that derive income from a u.s. trade or business and/or from sources within the u.s. drinker biddle &amp; reath llp, our united states tax counsel, has delivered to us an opinion, based on certain representations and assumptions set forth in it, to the effect that this income, to the extent derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, is excluded from gross income u.s. federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 883 of the internal revenue code. we believe that most of our income (including that of our subsidiaries) is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships. 30 table of contents our ability to rely on section 883 could change in the future. provisions of the internal revenue code, including section 883, are subject to legislative change at any time. moreover, changes could occur in the future with respect to the identity, residence or holdings of our direct or indirect shareholders, trading volume or trading frequency of our shares, or relevant foreign tax laws of liberia such that they no longer qualify as equivalent exemption jurisdictions, that could affect our eligibility for the section 883 exemption. accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be exempt from u.s. income tax on u.s. source shipping income in the future. if we were not entitled to the benefit of section 883, we and our subsidiaries would be subject to u.s. taxation on a portion of the income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships, which would reduce our net income. additionally, portions of our business are operated by companies that are within tonnage tax regimes of the u.k. and malta. further, some of the operations of these companies are conducted in jurisdictions where we rely on tax treaties to provide exemption from taxation. to the extent the tonnage tax laws of these countries change or we do not continue to meet the applicable qualification requirements or if tax treaties are changed or revoked, we may be required to pay higher income tax in these jurisdictions, adversely impacting our results of operations. as budgetary constraints continue to adversely impact the jurisdictions in which we operate, increases in income tax regulations or tax reform affecting our operations may be imposed. litigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and/or damage our reputation. our business is subject to various united states and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. in addition, improper conduct by our employees, agents or joint venture partners could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. in certain circumstances it may not be economical to defend against such matters and/or a legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. we are not a united states corporation and our shareholders may be subject to the uncertainties of a foreign legal system in protecting their interests. our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the business corporation act of liberia. the provisions of the business corporation act of liberia resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the united states. however, while most states have a fairly well developed body of case law interpreting their respective corporate statutes, there are very few judicial cases in liberia interpreting the business corporation act of liberia. as such, the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under liberian law are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain united states jurisdictions. for example, the right of shareholders to bring a derivative action in liberian courts may be more limited than in united states jurisdictions. there may also be practical difficulties for shareholders attempting to bring suit in liberia and liberian courts may or may not recognize and enforce foreign judgments. thus, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests with respect to actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a united states jurisdiction. provisions of our articles of incorporation, by-laws and liberian law could inhibit others from acquiring us, prevent a change of control, and may prevent efforts by our shareholders to change our management. certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws and liberian law may inhibit third parties from effectuating a change of control of the company without board approval which could result in the entrenchment of current management. these include provisions in our articles of incorporation that prevent third parties, other than a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates, from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of our outstanding shares without the consent of our board of directors. 31 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for more information. conducting business globally may result in increased costs and other risks. we operate our business globally. operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including increased exposure to a wider range of regional and local economic conditions, volatile local political conditions, potential changes in duties and taxes, including changing and/or uncertain interpretations of existing tax laws and regulations, required compliance with additional laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses or governing the operations of foreign-based companies, currency fluctuations, interest rate movements, difficulties in operating under local business environments, port quality and availability in certain regions, u.s. and global anti-bribery laws or regulations, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings. we have recently expanded our presence in china and, accordingly, our exposure to the risks of doing business in the country. china's economy differs from the economies of other developed countries in many respects and, as the legal system in china continues to evolve, there may be greater uncertainty as to the interpretation and enforcement of applicable laws and regulations. operating globally also exposes us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal, regulatory and tax requirements. in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business communities might not conform to international business standards. we must adhere to policies designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance as well as applicable laws and regulations. however, we might not be successful in ensuring that our employees, agents, representatives and other third parties with whom we associate throughout the world properly adhere to them. failure by us, our employees or any of these third parties to adhere to our policies or applicable laws or regulations could result in penalties, sanctions, damage to our reputation and related costs which in turn could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. if we are unable to address these risks adequately, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected, including potentially impairing the value of our ships and other assets. price increases for commercial airline service for our guests or major changes or reduction in commercial airline service and/or availability could adversely impact the demand for cruises and undermine our ability to provide reasonably priced vacation packages to our guests. many of our guests depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to or from the ports where our cruises embark or disembark. increases in the price of airfare would increase the overall price of the cruise vacation to our guests which may adversely impact demand for our cruises. in addition, changes in the availability of commercial airline services could adversely affect our guests' ability to obtain airfare as well as our ability to fly our guests to or from our cruise ships which could adversely affect our results of operations. incidents or adverse publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry, unusual weather conditions and other natural disasters or disruptions could affect our reputation as well as impact our sales and results of operations. the ownership and/or operation of cruise ships, airplanes, land tours, port facilities and shore excursions involves the risk of accidents, illnesses, mechanical failures, environmental incidents and other incidents which may bring into question safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction which could negatively impact our reputation. incidents involving cruise ships, and, in particular the safety and security of guests and crew and media coverage thereof have impacted and could in the future impact demand for our cruises and pricing in the industry. our reputation and our business could also be damaged by negative publicity regarding the cruise industry in general, including publicity regarding potentially adverse environmental impacts of cruising. the considerable expansion in the use of social media and digital marketing over recent years has compounded the potential scope of any negative publicity. if any such incident or news cycle occurs during a time of high seasonal demand, the effect could disproportionately impact our 25 table of contents results of operations for the year. in addition, incidents involving cruise ships may result in additional costs to our business, increasing government or other regulatory oversight and, in the case of incidents involving our ships, potential litigation. our cruise ships and port facilities may also be adversely impacted by unusual weather patterns or natural disasters or disruptions, such as hurricanes. we are often forced to alter itineraries and occasionally to cancel a cruise or a series of cruises due to these or other factors, which could have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. increases in the frequency, severity or duration of severe weather events, including from changes in the global climate, could exacerbate the impact and cause further disruption to our operations. in addition, these and any other events which impact the travel industry more generally may negatively impact our ability to deliver guests or crew to our cruises and/or interrupt our ability to obtain services and goods from key vendors in our supply chain. any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and on industry performance. an increase in capacity worldwide or excess capacity in a particular market could adversely impact our cruise sales and/or pricing. although our ships can be redeployed, cruise sales and/or pricing may be impacted both by the introduction of new ships into the marketplace and by deployment decisions of ourselves and our competitors. a total of 44 new ships with approximately 139,000 berths are on order for delivery through 2020 in the cruise industry. the further growth in capacity from these new ships and future orders, without an increase in the cruise industry's share of the vacation market, could depress cruise prices and impede our ability to achieve yield improvement. in addition, to the extent that we or our competitors deploy ships to a particular itinerary and the resulting capacity in that region exceeds the demand, we may lower pricing and profitability may be lower than anticipated. this risk may be amplified in emerging cruise markets, such as china, where we expect a significant increase in capacity over a relatively short time horizon. any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition including potentially impairing the value of our ships and other assets. unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our results of operations . we believe that port destinations are a major reason why guests choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. the availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including existing capacity constraints, constraints related to the size of certain ships, security, environmental and health concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, local governmental regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists. in addition, fuel costs may adversely impact the destinations on certain of our itineraries. any limitations on the availability or feasibility of our ports of call or on the availability of shore excursion and other service providers at such ports could adversely affect our results of operations. shipyard unavailability may adversely affect our ability to grow our business as planned and our results of operations. we rely on shipyards to construct our new ships and to repair and upgrade our existing ships. there are a limited number of shipyards with the capability and capacity to build our new ships and, accordingly, increased demand for available new construction slots could impact our ability to construct new ships when and as planned, cause us to commit to new ship orders earlier than we have historically done so and/or result in stronger bargaining power on the part of the shipyards and thus higher prices for our future ship orders. our inability to timely and cost-effectively procure new capacity could have a significant negative impact on our future business plans and results of operations. in addition, financial difficulties, liquidations or closures suffered by shipyards and/or their subcontractors may impact the timely delivery or costs of new ships or the ability of shipyards to repair and upgrade our fleet in accordance with our needs or expectations. delivery delays and canceled deliveries can adversely affect our results of operations, as can any constraints on our ability to build, repair and maintain our ships on a timely or cost effective basis. 26 table of contents ship construction, repair or upgrade delays or mechanical faults may result in cancellation of cruises or unscheduled drydocks and repairs and thus adversely affect our results of operations. we depend on shipyards to construct, repair and upgrade our cruise ships on a timely basis and in good working order. the sophisticated nature of building a ship involves risks. delays in ship construction or upgrades or mechanical faults have in the past and may in the future result in delays or cancellation of cruises or necessitate unscheduled drydocks and repairs of ships. these events and any related adverse publicity could result in lost revenue, increased operating expenses, or both, and thus adversely affect our results of operations. we may lose business to competitors throughout the vacation market . we operate in the vacation market and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. we therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators, which provide other leisure options including hotels, resorts and package holidays and tours. we face significant competition from other cruise lines on the basis of cruise pricing, travel agent preference and also in terms of the nature of ships and services we offer to guests. our principal competitors within the cruise vacation industry include carnival corporation &amp; plc, which owns, among others, aida cruises, carnival cruise line, costa cruises, cunard line, holland america line, p&amp;o cruises and princess cruises; disney cruise line; msc cruises; norwegian cruise line holdings ltd which owns norwegian cruise line, oceania cruises and regent seven seas cruises. in the event that we do not differentiate our cruise brands from our competitors or otherwise compete effectively with other vacation alternatives and new or existing cruise companies, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. we may not be able to obtain sufficient financing or capital for our needs or may not be able to do so on terms that are acceptable or consistent with our expectations. to fund our capital expenditures and scheduled debt payments, we have historically relied on a combination of cash flows provided by operations, drawdowns under available credit facilities, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the sale of equity or debt securities in private or public securities markets. any circumstance or event which leads to a decrease in consumer cruise spending, such as worsening global economic conditions or significant incidents impacting the cruise industry, could negatively affect our operating cash flows. see - adverse worldwide economic, geopolitical or other conditions and - incidents or adverse publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry for more information. although we believe we can access sufficient liquidity to fund our operations and obligations as expected, there can be no assurances to that effect. our ability to access additional funding as and when needed, our ability to timely refinance and/or replace our outstanding debt securities and credit facilities on acceptable terms and our cost of funding will depend upon numerous factors including but not limited to the vibrancy of the financial markets, our financial performance and the performance of our industry in general. in addition, even where financing commitments have been secured, significant disruptions in the capital and credit markets could cause our banking and other counterparties to breach their contractual obligations to us. this could include failures of banks or other financial service companies to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements or to pay us amounts that may become due under our derivative contracts for hedging of fuel prices, interest rates and foreign currencies or other agreements. if any of the foregoing occurs it may have a negative impact on our cash flows, including our ability to meet our obligations, our results of operations and our financial condition. our inability to satisfy the covenants required by our credit facilities could adversely impact our liquidity. our debt agreements contain covenants, including covenants restricting our ability to take certain actions and financial covenants. in addition, our ability to make borrowings under our available credit facilities is subject to the absence of material adverse changes in our business. our ability to maintain our credit facilities may also be impacted 27 table of contents by changes in our ownership base. more specifically, we may be required to prepay our ship financing facilities if (i) any person or entity other than a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates and their respective affiliates (the applicable group ) acquires ownership of more than 33% of our common stock and the applicable group owns less of our common stock than such person or (ii) subject to certain exceptions, during any 24-month period, a majority of the board is no longer comprised of individuals who were members of the board on the first day of such period. our other debt agreements also contain change of control provisions that would be triggered by the acquisition of greater than 50% of our common stock by (i) any person or (ii) in the case of our public debt securities, a person other than a member of the applicable group coupled with a ratings downgrade. our failure to comply with the terms of our debt facilities could result in an event of default. generally, if an event of default under any debt agreement occurs, then pursuant to cross default acceleration clauses, our outstanding debt and derivative contract payables could become due and/or terminated. in addition, in such events, our credit card processors could hold back payments to create a reserve. we cannot provide assurances that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay or the ability to refinance the borrowings under any of the credit facilities or settle other outstanding contracts if such amounts were accelerated upon an event of default. if we are unable to appropriately balance our cost management and capital allocation strategies with our goal of satisfying guest expectations, it may adversely impact our business success. our goals call for us to provide high quality products and deliver high quality services. there can be no assurance that we can successfully balance these goals with our cost management and capital allocation strategies. our business also requires us to make capital allocation decisions, such as ordering new ships and/or upgrading our ships, based on expected market preferences and projected demand. there can be no assurance that our strategies will be successful, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. our attempts to expand our business into new markets and new ventures may not be successful. we opportunistically seek to grow our business through, among other things, expansion into new destination or source markets and establishment of new ventures complementary to our current offerings. these attempts to expand our business increase the complexity of our business, require significant levels of investment and can strain our management, personnel, operations and systems. there can be no assurance that these business expansion efforts will develop as anticipated or that we will succeed, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. our reliance on travel agencies to sell and market our cruises exposes us to certain risks which, if realized, could adversely impact our business. we rely on travel agencies to generate the majority of bookings for our ships. accordingly, we must ensure that our commission rates and incentive structures remain competitive. if we fail to offer competitive compensation packages, these agencies may be incentivized to sell cruises offered by our competitors to our detriment, which could adversely impact our operating results. our reliance on third-party sellers is particularly pronounced in certain markets, such as china, where we have a large number of travel agent charter and group sales and less retail agency and direct booking. refer to cruise pricing under item 1. business for further information on the china business model. in addition, the travel agent industry is sensitive to economic conditions that impact discretionary income. significant disruptions, especially disruptions impacting those agencies that sell a high volume of our business, or contractions in the industry could reduce the number of travel agencies available for us to market and sell our cruises, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. disruptions in our shoreside operations or our information systems may adversely affect our results of operations. our principal executive office and principal shoreside operations are located at the port of miami, florida and we have shoreside offices throughout the world. actual or threatened natural disasters (e.g., hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, fires, floods) or similar events in these locations may have a material impact on our business continuity, reputation and results of operations. in addition, substantial or repeated information systems failures, computer viruses 28 table of contents or cyber-attacks impacting our shoreside or shipboard operations could adversely impact our business. we do not generally carry business interruption insurance for our shoreside operations or our information systems. as such, any losses or damages incurred by us could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. the loss of key personnel, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel, or disruptions among our shipboard personnel due to strained employee relations could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends, in large part, on the skills and contributions of key executives and other employees, and on our ability to recruit and retain high quality personnel in key markets. we must continue to sufficiently recruit, retain, train and motivate our employees to maintain our current business and support our projected global growth both shoreside and on our ships. furthermore, as of december 31, 2015, 83% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. a dispute under our collective bargaining agreements could result in a work stoppage of those employees covered by the agreements. a loss of key employees, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel or disruptions among our personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. business activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may subject us to additional risks. partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties, such as our joint venture to operate tui cruises, our partnership to operate skysea cruises, our investment in grand bahama shipyard and our minority ownership investments in various port development and other projects, generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. in addition, actions by another investor may present additional risks of operational difficulties or reputational or legal concerns. these or other issues related to our co-investment with third parties could adversely impact our operations. we rely on third-party providers of various services integral to the operations of our businesses. these third parties may act in ways that could harm our business. in order to achieve cost and operational efficiencies, we outsource to third-party vendors certain services that are integral to the operations of our global businesses, such as our onboard concessionaires, certain of our call center operations and operation of a large part of our information technology systems. we are subject to the risk that certain decisions are subject to the control of our third-party service providers and that these decisions may adversely affect our activities. a failure to adequately monitor a third-party service provider's compliance with a service level agreement or regulatory or legal requirements could result in significant economic and reputational harm to us. there is also a risk the confidentiality, privacy and/or security of data held by third parties or communicated over third-party networks or platforms could become compromised. a failure to keep pace with developments in technology or technological obsolescence could impair our operations or competitive position. our business continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems. these technologies and systems must be refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems in order to continue to meet our customers' demands and expectations. if we are unable to do so in a timely manner or within reasonable cost parameters or if we are unable to appropriately and timely train our employees to operate any of these new systems, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. we may be exposed to risks and costs associated with cyber security, including protecting the integrity and security of our guests', employees' and business partners' personal information. we are subject to various risks associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of sensitive information, including risks related to compliance with applicable laws and other contractual obligations, as well as the risk that our systems collecting such information could be compromised. in the course of doing business, we collect 29 table of contents large volumes of internal and customer data, including personally identifiable information for various business purposes. we are subject to federal, state and international laws relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personally identifiable information. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between the company and its subsidiaries, and among the company, its subsidiaries and other parties with which the company has commercial relations. several jurisdictions have passed laws in this area, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. these laws continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. complying with emerging and changing international requirements may cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices. if we fail to comply with the various applicable data collection and privacy laws, we could be exposed to fines, penalties, restrictions, litigation or other expenses, and our business could be adversely impacted. in addition, even if we are fully compliant with legal standards and contractual requirements, we still may not be able to prevent security breaches involving sensitive data. any breach, theft, loss, or fraudulent use of guest, employee or company data could adversely impact our reputation and brand and our ability to retain or attract new customers, and expose us to risks of data loss, business disruption, governmental investigation, litigation and other liability, any of which could adversely affect our business. significant capital investments and other expenditures could be required to remedy the problem and prevent future breaches, including costs associated with additional security technologies, personnel, experts and credit monitoring services for those whose data has been breached. additionally, the techniques and sophistication used to conduct cyber-attacks and breaches of information technology systems, as well as the sources and targets of these attacks, change frequently and are often not recognized until such attacks are launched or have been in place for a period of time. our security measures cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in preventing such breaches. environmental, labor, health and safety, financial responsibility and other maritime regulations could affect operations and increase operating costs. the united states and various state and foreign government or regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations or policies, such as requiring the use of low sulfur fuels, increasing fuel efficiency requirements, further restricting emissions, or other initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions that could increase our direct cost to operate in certain markets, increase our cost for fuel, limit the supply of compliant fuel, cause us to incur significant expenses to purchase and/or develop new equipment and adversely impact the cruise vacation industry. while we have taken and expect to continue to take a number of actions to mitigate the potential impact of certain of these regulations, there can be no assurances that these efforts will be successful or completed on a timely basis. some environmental groups have also lobbied for more stringent regulation of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise vacation industry and its environmental impact. see item 1. business-regulation-environmental regulations . an increase in fuel prices not only impacts our fuel costs, but also some of our other expenses, such as crew travel, freight and commodity prices. in addition, we are subject to various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties that govern, among other things, safety standards applicable to our ships, treatment of disabled persons, health and sanitary standards applicable to our guests, security standards on board our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities to our guests. these issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. this could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that could subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. a change in our tax status under the united states internal revenue code, or other jurisdictions, may have adverse effects on our income . we and a number of our subsidiaries are foreign corporations that derive income from a u.s. trade or business and/or from sources within the u.s. drinker biddle &amp; reath llp, our united states tax counsel, has delivered to us an opinion, based on certain representations and assumptions set forth in it, to the effect that this income, to the extent derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, is excluded from gross income u.s. federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 883 of the internal revenue code. we believe that most of our income (including that of our subsidiaries) is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships. 30 table of contents our ability to rely on section 883 could change in the future. provisions of the internal revenue code, including section 883, are subject to legislative change at any time. moreover, changes could occur in the future with respect to the identity, residence or holdings of our direct or indirect shareholders, trading volume or trading frequency of our shares, or relevant foreign tax laws of liberia such that they no longer qualify as equivalent exemption jurisdictions, that could affect our eligibility for the section 883 exemption. accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be exempt from u.s. income tax on u.s. source shipping income in the future. if we were not entitled to the benefit of section 883, we and our subsidiaries would be subject to u.s. taxation on a portion of the income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships, which would reduce our net income. additionally, portions of our business are operated by companies that are within tonnage tax regimes of the u.k. and malta. further, some of the operations of these companies are conducted in jurisdictions where we rely on tax treaties to provide exemption from taxation. to the extent the tonnage tax laws of these countries change or we do not continue to meet the applicable qualification requirements or if tax treaties are changed or revoked, we may be required to pay higher income tax in these jurisdictions, adversely impacting our results of operations. as budgetary constraints continue to adversely impact the jurisdictions in which we operate, increases in income tax regulations or tax reform affecting our operations may be imposed. litigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and/or damage our reputation. our business is subject to various united states and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. in addition, improper conduct by our employees, agents or joint venture partners could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. in certain circumstances it may not be economical to defend against such matters and/or a legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. we are not a united states corporation and our shareholders may be subject to the uncertainties of a foreign legal system in protecting their interests. our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the business corporation act of liberia. the provisions of the business corporation act of liberia resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the united states. however, while most states have a fairly well developed body of case law interpreting their respective corporate statutes, there are very few judicial cases in liberia interpreting the business corporation act of liberia. as such, the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under liberian law are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain united states jurisdictions. for example, the right of shareholders to bring a derivative action in liberian courts may be more limited than in united states jurisdictions. there may also be practical difficulties for shareholders attempting to bring suit in liberia and liberian courts may or may not recognize and enforce foreign judgments. thus, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests with respect to actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a united states jurisdiction. provisions of our articles of incorporation, by-laws and liberian law could inhibit others from acquiring us, prevent a change of control, and may prevent efforts by our shareholders to change our management. certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws and liberian law may inhibit third parties from effectuating a change of control of the company without board approval which could result in the entrenchment of current management. these include provisions in our articles of incorporation that prevent third parties, other than a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates, from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of our outstanding shares without the consent of our board of directors. 31 table of contents item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties information about our cruise ships, including their size and primary areas of operation, may be found within the operating strategies - fleet upgrade, maintenance and expansion section and the operations - cruise ships and itineraries section in item 1 . business . information regarding our cruise ships under construction, estimated expenditures and financing may be found within the future capital commitments and funding needs and sources sections of item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our principal executive office and principal shoreside operations are located in leased office buildings at the port of miami, florida. we also lease a number of other offices in the us and throughout europe, asia, mexico, south america and australia to administer our brand operations globally. we believe that our facilities are adequate for our current needs and that we are capable of obtaining additional facilities as necessary. we also operate two private destinations which we utilize as a port-of-call on certain of our itineraries: (i) an island we own in the bahamas which we call cococay; and (ii) labadee, a secluded peninsula we lease on the north coast of haiti. item 3. legal proceedings a c lass action complaint was filed in june 2011 against royal caribbean cruises ltd. in the united states district court for the southern district of florida on behalf of a purported class of stateroom attendants employed onboard royal caribbean international cruise vessels. the complaint alleged that the stateroom attendants were required to pay other crew members to help with their duties and that certain stateroom attendants were required to work back of house assignments without the ability to earn gratuities, in each case, in violation of the u.s. seaman's wage act. in may 2012, the district court granted our motion to dismiss the complaint on the basis that the applicable collective bargaining agreement requires any such claims to be arbitrated. the united states court of appeals, 11th circuit, affirmed the district court's dismissal and denied the plaintiffs' petition for re-hearing and re-hearing en banc. in october 2014, the united states supreme court denied the plaintiffs' request to review the order compelling arbitration. subsequently, approximately 575 crew members submitted demands for arbitration. the demands make substantially the same allegations as in the federal court complaint and are similarly seeking damages, wage penalties and interest in an indeterminate amount. unlike the federal court complaint, the demands for arbitration are being brought individually by each of the crew members and not on behalf of a purported class of stateroom attendants. in february 2016, we settled this matter as to all demanding crew members in exchange for our payment in the aggregate of an immaterial amount. the settlement is subject to finalization of all settlement documents. in april 2015, the alaska department of environmental conservation issued notices of violation to royal caribbean international and celebrity cruises seeking monetary penalties for alleged violations of the alaska marine visible emission standards that occurred over the past five years on certain of our vessels. we believe we have meritorious defenses to the allegations and we are cooperating with the state of alaska. we do not believe that the ultimate outcome of these claims will have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations and cash flows. we are routinely involved in other claims typical within the cruise vacation industry. the majority of these claims are covered by insurance. we believe the outcome of such claims, net of expected insurance recoveries, will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations and cash flows. item 4. mine safety disclosures none. 32 table of contents part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities market information our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange ("nyse") and the oslo stock exchange ("ose") under the symbol "rcl". in 2015, we applied for and received approval to delist from the ose. our last day of trading on the ose is scheduled for march 8, 2016. the table below sets forth the high and low sales prices of our common stock as reported by the nyse and the ose for the two most recent years by quarter: nyse common stock ose common stock (1) high low high low 2015 fourth quarter $103.40 $87.08 905.00 705.00 third quarter $97.60 $77.74 803.50 617.00 second quarter $83.32 $65.91 669.50 485.60 first quarter $85.56 $72.79 666.00 555.00 2014 fourth quarter $83.90 $52.32 638.00 347.00 third quarter $69.31 $53.66 439.60 332.00 second quarter $57.38 $49.65 349.00 300.00 first quarter $54.93 $45.95 332.60 284.20 _______________________________________________________________________________ (1) denominated in norwegian kroner, as listed in the price history database available at www.oslobors.no holders as of february 12, 2016 there were 907 record holders of our common stock. since certain of our shares are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of shareholders, the foregoing number is not representative of the number of beneficial owners. dividends in 2014 , we declared cash dividends on our common stock of $0.25 per share during the first and second quarters of 2014 . we increased the dividend amount to $0.30 per share for the dividends declared in the third and fourth quarters of 2014 and the first and second quarters of 2015 . the dividend amount was increased to $0.375 per share for the dividends declared in the third and fourth quarters of 2015 . holders of our common stock have an equal right to share in our profits in the form of dividends when and if declared by our board of directors out of funds legally available. holders of our common stock have no rights to any sinking fund. there are no exchange control restrictions on remittances of dividends on our common stock since (1) we are and intend to maintain our status as a nonresident liberian entity under the liberia revenue code of 2000 as amended and the regulations thereunder, and (2) our ship-owning subsidiaries are not now engaged, and are not in the future expected to engage, in any business in liberia, including voyages exclusively within the territorial waters of the republic of liberia. under current liberian law, no liberian taxes or withholding will be imposed on payments to holders of our securities other than to a holder that is a resident liberian entity or a resident individual or an individual or entity subject to taxation in liberia as a result of having a permanent establishment within the meaning of the liberia revenue code of 2000 as amended in liberia. 33 table of contents the declaration of dividends shall at all times be subject to the final determination of our board of directors that a dividend is prudent at that time in consideration of the needs of the business. stock repurchases the following table presents the total number of shares of our common stock that we repurchased during the three months ended december 31, 2015: period total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs october 1, 2015 - october 31, 2015 (1) 1,632,820 (2) 1,632,820 $300,000,000 november 1, 2015 - november 30, 2015 (1) 470,468 (2) 470,468 $300,000,000 december 1, 2015 - december 31, 2015 (1) $300,000,000 total 2,103,288 2,103.288 (1) in october 2015, our board of directors authorized a common stock repurchase program for up to $500 million. subsequently, in 2015, we executed an agreement with an investment bank to purchase a total of $200 million, of the $500 million authorized amount, of our common stock under an accelerated stock repurchase (asr) transaction. the asr transaction was completed on november 30, 2015. future stock repurchases under this program could include open market purchases or additional accelerated share repurchases. we expect to complete the program by the end of 2016. for further information on the asr transaction, refer to note 8. shareholders' equity to our consolidated financial statements under quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments and other general we are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and fuel prices. we manage these risks through a combination of our normal operating and financing activities and through the use of derivative financial instruments pursuant to our hedging practices and policies. the financial impact of these hedging instruments is primarily offset by corresponding changes in the underlying exposures being hedged. we achieve this by closely matching the amount, term and conditions of the derivative instrument with the underlying risk being hedged. although certain of our derivative financial instruments do not qualify or are not accounted for under hedge accounting, we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. we monitor our derivative positions using techniques including market valuations and sensitivity analyses. (refer to note 14. fair value measurements and derivative instruments to our consolidated financial statements underrisk factors 24 risk factors - conducting business globally may result in increased costs and other risks for a discussion of the risks associated with our international operations. cost efficiency, operating expenditures and adequate cash and liquidity 7 table of contents we continue our commitment to identify and implement cost containment initiatives. in 2016, we implemented initiatives, such as the closing of one of our international offices and personnel reorganization in our corporate offices, aimed at improving operating efficiencies and economies of scale. we will continue to focus on and evaluate cost containment initiatives in 2017. we also continue our initiatives to reduce energy consumption and, by extension, fuel costs. these include the design of more energy-efficient ships as well as the implementation of more efficient hardware, including improvements in operations and voyage planning as well as improvements to the propulsion, machinery, hvac and lighting systems. the overall impact of these efforts has resulted in an approximate 25% improvement in energy efficiency from 2005 through 2015 and we believe that our energy consumption per guest is currently the lowest in the cruise industry. we are focused on maintaining a strong liquidity position, reducing our debt and improving our credit metrics. in addition, we continue to pursue our objective of returning our credit ratings to investment grade. we believe these strategies enhance our ability to achieve our overall goal of maximizing our return on invested capital and long-term shareholder value. fleet upgrade, maintenance and expansion we place a strong focus on innovation, which we seek to achieve by introducing new concepts on our new ships and continuously making improvements to our fleet. several of these innovations have become signature elements of our brands, such as the royal promenade (a boulevard with shopping, dining and entertainment venues) for the royal caribbean international brand and enhanced design features found on our solstice-class ships for the celebrity cruises brand. our upgrade and maintenance programs enable us to incorporate many of our latest signature innovations throughout the brand fleet and allow us to benefit from economies of scale by leveraging our suppliers. ensuring consistency across our fleet provides us with the flexibility to redeploy our ships among our brand portfolio. we are committed to building state-of-the-art ships at a moderate growth rate and we believe our success in this area provides us with a competitive advantage. our new vessels traditionally generate higher revenue yield premiums and are more efficient to operate than existing vessels. our global brands currently have nine ships expected to be delivered between 2018 and the end of 2022. these consist of two quantum-class ships, which are scheduled to enter service in the second quarter of 2019 and fourth quarter of 2020, respectively, two oasis-class ships, which are scheduled to enter service in the first quarter of 2018 and second quarter of 2021, respectively, four ships of a new generation for celebrity cruises, which are scheduled to enter service in the fourth quarter of 2018, the first quarter of 2020 and the fourth quarters of 2021 and 2022, respectively, and the first of two ships of a new generation for royal caribbean international, which is scheduled to enter service in the second quarter of 2022. the addition of these ships, net of legend of the seas departing the fleet in 2017, is expected to increase passenger capacity of our global brands by approximately 34,000 berths by the end of 2022, which represents an estimated compound annual growth rate of 4.4% from 2016 to december 31, 2022. additionally, tui cruises, our 50% joint venture, currently has agreements for the construction of three new ships. these ships are scheduled to enter service in the second quarters of 2017 and 2018 and the first quarter of 2019, respectively, with an expected total capacity of 8,200 berths. in addition, we regularly evaluate opportunities to order new ships, purchase existing ships or sell ships in our current fleet. in the current environment of high industry demand, we recently have placed new ship orders earlier than we have historically done as well as more aggressively sought to sell older capacity. markets and itineraries 8 table of contents in an effort to penetrate untapped markets, diversify our consumer base and respond to changing economic and geopolitical market conditions, we continue to seek opportunities to optimally deploy ships to new and stronger markets and itineraries throughout the world. the portability of our ships allows us to readily deploy our ships to meet demand within our existing cruise markets. we make deployment decisions generally 12 to 18 months in advance, with the goal of optimizing the overall profitability of our portfolio. additionally, the infrastructure investments we have made to create a flexible global sourcing model has made our brands relevant in a number of markets around the world, which allows us to be opportunistic and source the highest yielding guests for our itineraries. our ships offer a wide selection of itineraries that call on approximately 535 destinations in 105 countries, spanning all seven continents. we are focused on obtaining the best possible long-term shareholder returns by operating in established markets while growing our presence in developing markets. new capacity allows us to expand into new markets and itineraries. our brands have expanded their mix of itineraries while strengthening our ability to further penetrate the asian and australian markets. additionally, in order to capitalize on the summer season in the southern hemisphere and mitigate the impact of the winter weather in the northern hemisphere, our brands have focused on deployment in the caribbean, asia and australia during that period. in an effort to secure desirable berthing facilities for our ships, and to provide new or enhanced cruise destinations for our guests, we actively assist or invest in the development or enhancement of certain port facilities and infrastructure, including mixed-use commercial properties, located in strategic ports of call. generally, we collaborate with local, private or governmental entities by providing management and/or financial assistance and often enter into long-term port usage arrangements. our participation in these efforts is generally accomplished via investments with the relevant government authority and/or various other strategic partnerships established to develop and/or operate the port facilities, by providing direct development and management expertise or in certain limited circumstances, by providing direct or indirect financial support. in exchange for our involvement, we generally secure preferential berthing rights for our ships. technological capabilities the need to develop and use innovative technology is increasingly important. technology is a pervasive part of virtually every business process we use to support our strategic focus and provide a quality experience to our customers before, during and after their cruise. in the last few years, we introduced rfid wow bands on some of our ships to make many onboard processes easier and more comfortable for our guests. moreover, as the use of our various websites and social media platforms continue to increase along with the use of technology onboard our ships by both our guests and crew, we continually need to upgrade our systems, infrastructure and technologies to facilitate this growth. for instance, in 2016, we continued to advance our onboard technology in areas such as internet connectivity at sea, guest check-in and dining. additionally, we have introduced and continue to improve our mobile-friendly websites for our travel partners and direct customers and to invest in mobile apps that enhance the guest experience onboard our ships. cyber security and data privacy are a continued focus and we have made and will continue to make significant investments to protect our customer data, intellectual property and global operations. additionally, as we expand into new markets, we must ensure that we have the proper technology in place to support the market. for instance, our capabilities need to adapt to each of our markets' languages and regulations. as we expand our business, this has been an increased focus for us. travel agency support and direct business travel agencies continue to be the primary source of ticket sales for our ships. we believe in the value of this distribution channel and invest heavily in maintaining strong relationships with our travel partners. to accomplish this goal, we seek to ensure that our commission rates and incentive structures remain competitive with the marketplace. we provide brand dedicated sales representatives who serve as advisors to our travel partners. we also provide trained customer service representatives, call centers and online training tools. 9 table of contents to support our sales initiatives, we have established a consumer outreach department which allows consumers 24-hour access to our vacation planners, group vacation planners and customer service agents in our call centers. in addition, we maintain and invest in our websites, including mobile applications and mobile websites, which allow guests to directly plan, book and customize their cruise, as well as encourage guests to book their next cruise vacations onboard our ships. guest services we offer to handle virtually all travel aspects related to guest reservations and transportation, including arranging guest pre- and post-hotel stay arrangements and air transportation. royal caribbean international, celebrity cruises and azamara club cruises offer rewards to their guests through their loyalty programs, crown &amp; anchor society, captain's club and le club voyage, respectively, to encourage repeat business. crown &amp; anchor society has approximately 10.4 million members worldwide. captain's club and le club voyage have 3.4 million members combined worldwide. members earn increasing membership status by accumulating cruise points or credits, depending on the brand, which may be redeemed on future sailings. members are awarded points or credits in proportion to the number of cruise days and stateroom category. the loyalty programs provide certain tiers of membership benefits which can be redeemed by guests after accumulating the number of cruise points or credits specified for each tier. in addition, upon achieving a certain level of cruise points or credits, members benefit from reciprocal membership benefits across all of our loyalty programs. examples of the rewards available under our loyalty programs include, but are not limited to, priority ship embarkation, priority waitlist for shore excursions, complimentary laundry service, complimentary internet, booklets with onboard discount offers, upgraded bathroom amenities, private seating on the pool deck, ship tours and, in the case of our most loyal guests who have achieved the highest levels of cruise points or credits, complimentary cruise days. we regularly work to enhance each of our loyalty programs by adding new features and amenities in order to reward our repeat guests. operations cruise ships and itineraries as of december 31, 2016 , our global brands and partner brands collectively operated 49 ships with a selection of worldwide itineraries ranging from two to 24 nights that call on approximately 535 destinations. 10 table of contents the following table presents summary information concerning the ships we will operate in 2017 under our global brands and partner brands and their geographic areas of operation based on current 2017 itineraries (subject to change). ship year ship built year ship entered service (1) approximate berths primary areas of operation royal caribbean international harmony of the seas 2016 2016 5,450 eastern/western caribbean ovation of the seas 2016 2016 4,100 eastern asia, australia/new zealand anthem of the seas 2015 2015 4,150 bermuda, canada, eastern/western/southern caribbean quantum of the seas 2014 2014 4,150 eastern asia allure of the seas 2010 2010 5,450 eastern/western caribbean oasis of the seas 2009 2009 5,450 eastern/western caribbean independence of the seas 2008 2008 3,600 northern europe, mediterranean, western caribbean liberty of the seas 2007 2007 3,750 western caribbean freedom of the seas 2006 2006 3,750 eastern/western caribbean, mediterranean jewel of the seas 2004 2004 2,150 mediterranean, southern caribbean mariner of the seas 2003 2003 3,100 eastern asia and southeastern asia serenade of the seas 2003 2003 2,100 southern caribbean, northern europe, canada navigator of the seas 2002 2002 3,250 northern europe, southern/western caribbean, mediterranean brilliance of the seas 2002 2002 2,100 mediterranean, western caribbean adventure of the seas 2001 2001 3,100 southern caribbean radiance of the seas 2001 2001 2,100 alaska, australia/new zealand explorer of the seas 2000 2000 3,250 alaska, australia/new zealand voyager of the seas 1999 1999 3,250 eastern asia, australia/new zealand vision of the seas 1998 1998 2,000 northern europe, canada, western caribbean enchantment of the seas 1997 1997 2,250 bahamas rhapsody of the seas 1997 1997 2,000 mediterranean, western caribbean grandeur of the seas 1996 1996 1,950 southern/eastern/western caribbean, bermuda, bahamas legend of the seas (2) 1995 1995 1,800 australia/new zealand majesty of the seas 1992 1992 2,350 bahamas empress of the seas 1990 2016 1,550 western caribbean celebrity cruises celebrity reflection 2012 2012 3,000 mediterranean, eastern/western caribbean celebrity silhouette 2011 2011 2,850 northern europe, mediterranean, eastern/western caribbean celebrity eclipse 2010 2010 2,850 northern europe, southern caribbean celebrity equinox 2009 2009 2,850 eastern/western/southern caribbean celebrity solstice 2008 2008 2,850 alaska, australia/new zealand celebrity xploration 2007 2016 20 galapagos islands celebrity constellation 2002 2002 2,150 mediterranean, middle east, southeast asia celebrity summit 2001 2001 2,150 eastern/western/southern caribbean, bermuda, canada 11 table of contents ship year ship built year ship entered service (1) approximate berths primary areas of operation celebrity infinity 2001 2001 2,150 south america, alaska celebrity xpedition 2001 2004 100 galapagos islands celebrity millennium 2000 2000 2,150 alaska, southeastern asia, eastern asia celebrity xperience 1982 2016 50 galapagos islands azamara club cruises azamara quest 2000 2007 700 mediterranean, eastern/western/southern caribbean, latin america azamara journey 2000 2007 700 southeastern asia, eastern asia, australia/new zealand, mediterranean, northern europe pullmantur zenith 1992 2014 1,400 mediterranean, southern caribbean monarch 1991 2013 2,350 southern caribbean, northern europe horizon 1990 2010 1,400 northern europe, mediterranean sovereign 1988 2008 2,300 mediterranean, brazil tui cruises mein schiff 6 2017 2017 2,500 northern europe, north america, central america mein schiff 5 2016 2016 2,500 southern caribbean, mediterranean, dubai mein schiff 4 2015 2015 2,500 northern europe, mediterranean, southern caribbean mein schiff 3 2014 2014 2,500 northern europe, southern caribbean mein schiff 2 1997 2011 1,900 dubai, mediterranean mein schiff 1 1996 2009 1,900 southeastern asia, northern europe, mediterranean skysea cruises skysea golden era 1995 2015 1,800 southeastern asia total 125,770 _______________________________________________________________________________ (1) the year a ship entered service refers to the year in which the ship commenced cruise revenue operations for the brand. (2) in june 2016, we entered into an agreement to sell legend of the seas to thomson cruises, an affiliate of tui ag, our joint venture partner, which is scheduled to be completed in march 2017. 12 table of contents our global brands and our partner brands have eleven ships on order. two ships on order are being built in germany by meyer werft gmbh, three are being built in finland by meyer turku shipyard and six are being built in france by stx france. the expected dates that the ships on order will enter service and their approximate berths are as follows: ship expected to enter service approximate berths royal caribbean international quantum-class: unnamed 2nd quarter 2019 4,150 unnamed 4th quarter 2020 4,150 oasis-class: unnamed 1st quarter 2018 5,450 unnamed 2nd quarter 2021 5,450 celebrity cruises project edge celebrity edge 4th quarter 2018 2,900 celebrity beyond 1st quarter 2020 2,900 unnamed 4th quarter 2021 2,900 unnamed 4th quarter 2022 2,900 tui cruises (50% joint venture) (1) mein schiff 6 2nd quarter 2017 2,500 unnamed 2nd quarter 2018 2,850 unnamed 1st quarter 2019 2,850 total berths 39,000 _______________________________________________________________________________ (1) tui cruises plans to offset this additional capacity through the planned transfer of the their first two ships, mein schiff 1 and mein schiff 2 , to thomson cruises in 2018 and 2019, respectively. in october 2016, we signed a memorandum of understanding with meyer turku to build two ships of a new generation of ships for royal caribbean international, known as "project icon," which are expected to enter service in the second quarters of 2022 and 2024, respectively. while the design is still being finalized, each ship will likely accommodate approximately 5,000 guests. these orders are contingent upon completion of conditions precedent, including documentation and financing. seasonality our revenues are seasonal based on the demand for cruises. demand is strongest for cruises during the northern hemisphere's summer months and holidays. in order to mitigate the impact of the winter weather in the northern hemisphere and to capitalize on the summer season in the southern hemisphere, our brands have focused on deployment in the caribbean, asia and australia during that period. passengers and capacity selected statistical information is shown in the following table (see financial presentation - description of certain line items and selected operational and financial metrics under item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , for definitions): 13 table of contents year ended december 31, 2016 (1) 2015 2014 2013 2012 passengers carried 5,754,747 5,401,899 5,149,952 4,884,763 4,852,079 passenger cruise days 40,250,557 38,523,060 36,710,966 35,561,772 35,197,783 available passenger cruise days (apcd) 37,844,644 36,646,639 34,773,915 33,974,852 33,705,584 occupancy 106.4 % 105.1 % 105.6 % 104.7 % 104.4 % _______________________________________________________________________________ (1) does not include november and december 2015 amounts related to the elimination of the pullmantur reporting lag since the impact is included within other (expense) income in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss) for the year ended december 31, 2016. additionally, effective august 2016, we no longer include pullmantur holdings in these amounts. cruise pricing our cruise ticket prices include accommodations and a wide variety of activities and amenities, including meals and entertainment. prices vary depending on many factors including the destination, cruise length, stateroom category selected and the time of year the cruise takes place. although we grant credit terms in select markets mainly outside of the united states, our payment terms generally require an upfront deposit to confirm a reservation, with the balance due prior to the sailing. our cruises are generally available for sale at least one year in advance and often as much as two years in advance of sailing. during the selling period of a cruise, we continually monitor and adjust our cruise ticket prices for available guest staterooms based on demand, with the objective of maximizing net yields. in early 2015, in an effort to preserve the integrity of our cruise pricing, we implemented a new policy against introducing incremental discounting on our ticket prices in certain markets within 30 days of the sailing date. through 2016, we continue to follow this policy. as we grow our business globally, our sale arrangements with travel agents may vary. for instance, our sale arrangements in the mainland chinese market are primarily composed of travel agent charter and group sales with full payment due close-in to sailing, and to a lesser extent, retail agency and direct sales. we have developed and implemented enhancements to our reservations system that provide us and our travel partners with additional capabilities. the enhancements also allow us to better understand and react to the current demand and pricing environment and implement a variety of promotions. we offer air transportation to our guests through our air transportation program available in major cities around the world. generally, air tickets are sold to guests at prices close to cost which vary by gateway and destination. passenger ticket revenues accounted for approximately 72% , 73% and 73% of total revenues in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. onboard activities and other revenues our cruise brands offer modern fleets with a wide array of onboard services, amenities and activities which vary by brand and ship. while many onboard activities are included in the base price of a cruise, we realize additional revenues from, among other things, gaming, the sale of alcoholic and other beverages, internet and other telecommunication services, gift shop items, shore excursions, photography, spa/salon and fitness services, art auctions, catalogue gifts for guests and a wide variety of specialty restaurants and dining options. many of these services are available for pre-booking on the internet prior to embarkation. these activities are provided either directly by us or by independent concessionaires from which we receive a percentage of their revenues. in conjunction with our cruise vacations, we offer pre- and post-cruise hotel packages to our royal caribbean international, celebrity cruises and azamara club cruises guests. we also offer cruise vacation protection coverage to guests in a number of markets, which provides guests with coverage for trip cancellation, medical protection and 14 table of contents baggage protection. onboard and other revenues accounted for approximately 28% , 27% and 27% of total revenues in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. segment reporting we operate three wholly-owned cruise brands, royal caribbean international, celebrity cruises and azamara club cruises. in addition, we have a 50% investment in a joint venture with tui ag which operates the german brand tui cruises, a 49% interest in the spanish brand pullmantur and have a minority interest in the chinese brand skysea cruises. we believe our brands possess the versatility to enter multiple cruise market segments within the cruise vacation industry. although each of our brands has its own marketing style as well as ships and crews of various sizes, the nature of the products sold and services delivered by our brands share a common base (i.e., the sale and provision of cruise vacations). our brands also have similar itineraries as well as similar cost and revenue components. in addition, our brands source passengers from similar markets around the world and operate in similar economic environments with a significant degree of commercial overlap. as a result, our brands have been aggregated as a single reportable segment based on the similarity of their economic characteristics, types of consumers, regulatory environment, maintenance requirements, supporting systems and processes as well as products and services provided. our chairman and chief executive officer has been identified as the chief operating decision-maker and all significant operating decisions including the allocation of resources are based upon the analyses of the company as one segment. ( for financial information see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data .) employees as of december 31, 2016 , our global brands employed over 66,000 employees, including 60,000 shipboard employees as well as 6,000 full-time and 100 part-time employees in our shoreside operations. as of december 31, 2016 , approximately 85% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. insurance we maintain insurance on the hull and machinery of our ships, with insured values generally equal to the net book value of each ship. this coverage is maintained with financially sound insurance underwriters from the british, scandinavian, french, united states and other reputable international insurance markets. we maintain protection and indemnity liability insurance, which provides coverage for liabilities, costs and expenses for illness and injury to crew, guest injury, pollution and other third-party claims that arise out of, or are the result of, our cruise operations. our vessels are insured through either the united kingdom mutual steam ship assurance association (bermuda) limited, the steamship mutual underwriting association or gard as. our protection and indemnity liability insurance is done on a mutual basis and we are subject to additional premium calls in amounts based on claim records of all members of the mutual protection and indemnity association. we are also subject to additional premium calls based on investment shortfalls experienced by the insurer. we maintain war risk insurance which covers damage due to acts of war, including invasion, insurrection, terrorism, rebellion, piracy and hijacking, on each ship, through a norwegian war risk insurance organization. this coverage includes coverage for physical damage to the ship which is not covered under the hull policies as a result of war exclusion clauses in such hull policies. we also maintain protection and indemnity war risk coverage for risks that would be excluded by the rules of the indemnity insurance organizations, subject to certain limitations. consistent with most marine war risk policies, under the terms of our war risk insurance coverage, in the event of a change in risk, underwriters can give seven days' notice to us that the policy will be canceled and reinstated at higher premium rates. insurance coverage for shoreside property and casualty exposures, shipboard inventory, off-vessel liability, directors and officers and other risks are maintained with insurance underwriters in the united states and the united kingdom. 15 table of contents we do not carry business interruption insurance for our ships based on our evaluation of the risks involved and protective measures already in place, as compared to the cost of insurance. all insurance coverage is subject to certain limitations, exclusions and deductible levels. in addition, in certain circumstances, we either self-insure or co-insure a portion of these risks. premiums charged by insurance carriers, including carriers in the maritime insurance industry, increase or decrease from time to time and tend to be cyclical in nature. these cycles are impacted both by our own loss experience and by losses incurred in direct and reinsurance markets. we historically have been able to obtain insurance coverage in amounts and at premiums we have deemed to be commercially acceptable. no assurance can be given that affordable and secure insurance markets will be available to us in the future, particularly for war risk insurance. trademarks we own a number of registered trademarks related to the royal caribbean international, celebrity cruises and azamara club cruises cruise brands. the registered trademarks include the name royal caribbean international and its crown and anchor logo, the name celebrity cruises and its x logo, the name azamara club cruises and its globe with an a logo, and the names of various cruise ships, as well as loyalty program names and other marketing programs. we believe our largest brands' trademarks are widely recognized throughout the world and have considerable value. the duration of trademark registrations varies from country to country. however, trademarks are generally valid and may be renewed indefinitely as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained. regulation our ships are regulated by various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties in force in the jurisdictions in which they operate. in addition, our ships are registered in the bahamas, malta or in the case of our ships operating in the galapagos islands, ecuador. each ship is subject to regulations issued by its country of registry, including regulations issued pursuant to international treaties governing the safety of our ships, guests and crew as well as environmental protection. each country of registry conducts periodic inspections to verify compliance with these regulations as discussed more fully below. ships operating out of united states ports are subject to inspection by the united states coast guard for compliance with international treaties and by the united states public health service for sanitary and health conditions. our ships are also subject to similar inspections pursuant to the laws and regulations of various other countries our ships visit. we believe that we are in material compliance with all the regulations applicable to our ships and that we have all licenses necessary to conduct our business. health, safety, security, environmental and financial responsibility issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant government authorities in the united states and internationally. from time to time, various regulatory and legislative changes may be proposed that could impact our operations and subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. safety and security regulations our ships are required to comply with international safety standards defined in the international convention for safety of life at sea ( solas ), which among other things, establishes requirements for ship design, structural features, materials, construction, lifesaving equipment and safe management and operation of ships to ensure guest and crew safety. the solas standards are revised from time to time and the most recent modifications were phased in through 2010. compliance with these modified standards did not have a material effect on our operating costs. solas incorporates the international safety management code ( ism code ), which provides an international standard for the safe management and operation of ships and for pollution prevention. the ism code is mandatory for all vessels, including passenger vessel operators. all of our operations and ships are regularly audited by various national authorities and maintain the required certificates of compliance with the ism code. 16 table of contents our ships are subject to various security requirements, including the international ship and port facility security code ( isps code ), which is part of solas, and the u.s. maritime transportation security act of 2002 ( mtsa ), which applies to ships that operate in u.s. ports. in order to satisfy these security requirements, we implement security measures, conduct vessel security assessments, and develop security plans. the security plans for all of our ships have been submitted to and approved by the respective countries of registry for our ships in compliance with the isps code and the mtsa. the cruise vessel security and safety act of 2010, which applies to passenger vessels which embark or include port stops within the united states, requires the implementation of certain safety design features as well as the establishment of practices for the reporting of and dealing with allegations of crime. the cruise industry supported this legislation and we believe that our internal standards are generally as strict or stricter than the law requires. a few provisions of the law call for regulations which have not yet been finalized; however, based on proposed regulations issued by the u.s. coast guard in january 2015, we do not expect any material costs due to implementing these regulations. environmental regulations we are subject to various international and national laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. under such laws and regulations, we are generally prohibited from discharging materials other than food waste into the waterways. we have made, and will continue to make, capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations. from time to time, environmental and other regulators consider more stringent regulations, which may affect our operations and increase our compliance costs. we believe that the impact of ships on the global environment will continue to be an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world and, accordingly, may subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future, including the items described below. our ships are subject to the international maritime organization's ( imo'') regulations under the international convention for the prevention of pollution from ships (the marpol regulations'') and the international convention for the control and management of ships ballast water and sediments (ballast water management convention), which includes requirements designed to minimize pollution by oil, sewage, garbage, air emissions and the transfer of non-native/non-indigenous species. we have obtained the relevant international compliance certificates relating to oil, sewage and air pollution prevention for all of our ships and have begun to obtain the compliance certificates pertaining to ballast water as they become applicable to our ships. the marpol regulations impose global limitations on the sulfur content of fuel used by ships operating worldwide to 3.5%. the marpol regulations also establish special emission control areas ( ecas'') with stringent limitations on sulfur emissions in these areas. as of february 2016, there are four established ecas that restrict sulfur emissions: the baltic sea, the north sea/english channel, certain waters surrounding the north american coast, and the waters surrounding puerto rico and the u.s. virgin islands (the caribbean eca ). since january 1, 2015, ships operating in these sulfur ecas have been required to reduce their fuel sulfur content from 1.0% to 0.1%. this reduction has not had a significant impact on our results of operations to date largely due to a number of mitigating steps we have taken over the last several years, including equipping all of our new ships delivered during or after 2014 with advanced emissions purification ("aep") systems covering all engines and actively developing and testing aep systems on our existing fleet. we continue to implement our aep system strategy both for our ships on order and for our existing fleet. as our new ships are delivered, they will provide us with additional operational and deployment flexibility. we currently have in place exemptions for 19 of our existing ships which apply while they are sailing in the north american and caribbean ecas. these exemptions have delayed the requirement to comply with the additional sulfur content reduction pending our continued development and deployment of aep systems on these ships. 17 table of contents in addition, we believe that the learning from our existing endeavors as well as our further efforts with regards to this technology will allow us to complete an effective aep system retrofit strategy for our fleet. as a result, we believe the cost of complying with the 2015 eca sulfur emission requirement will not be significant to our results of operations. by january 1, 2020, the marpol regulations will require the worldwide limitations on sulfur content of fuel to be reduced from 3.5% to 0.5%. as this regulation is implemented worldwide and if we have not been able to successfully execute our mitigation strategies, including our aep system retrofit strategy, our fuel costs could increase significantly. all new ships that began construction after january 1, 2016 will be required to meet more stringent nitrogen oxide emission limits when operating within the north american and u.s. caribbean sea eca. we have been in the process of evaluating a number of technological alternatives over the last several years to address these new requirements and believe that we will be able to comply with these limits without a significant impact to our operations or fuel costs. effective july 1, 2015, the european commission adopted legislation that will require cruise ship operators with ships visiting ports in the european union to monitor and report on the ship's annual carbon dioxide emissions starting in 2018. while we do not expect compliance with this regulation to materially impact our costs or results of operations, the adopting legislation presents the new monitoring and reporting requirements as the first step of a staged approach which could ultimately result in additional costs or charges associated with carbon dioxide emissions. effective september 8, 2017, the imo ballast water management convention will require ships that carry and discharge ballast water to meet specific discharge standards by installing ballast water treatment systems within the next five years. we do not expect compliance with this regulation to have a material effect on our results of operations. consumer financial responsibility regulations we are required to obtain certificates from the united states federal maritime commission relating to our ability to satisfy liability in cases of non-performance of obligations to guests, as well as casualty and personal injury. as a condition to obtaining the required certificates, we arrange through our insurers for the provision of surety for our ship-operating companies. the required surety amount is currently $30.0 million per operator and is subject to additional consumer price index based adjustments. we are also required by the united kingdom, norway, finland, and the baltics to establish our financial responsibility for any liability resulting from the non-performance of our obligations to guests from these jurisdictions. in the united kingdom we are currently required by the association of british travel agents to provide performance bonds totaling approximately 27.4 million . in addition, in 2016 we were required by the civil aviation authority to provide performance bonds totaling approximately 10.1 million . the norwegian travel guarantee fund requires us to maintain performance bonds in varying amounts during the course of the year to cover our financial responsibility in norway, finland and the baltics. these amounts ranged from nok 3 million to nok 33 million during 2016 . certain other jurisdictions also require that we establish financial responsibility to our guests resulting from the non-performance of our obligations; however, the related amounts do not have a material effect on our costs. regulations regarding protection of disabled persons in june 2013, the u.s. architectural and transportation barriers compliance board proposed guidelines for the construction and alteration of passenger vessels to ensure that the vessels are readily accessible to and usable by passengers with disabilities. once finalized, these guidelines will be used by the u.s. department of transportation and u.s. department of justice to implement mandatory and enforceable standards for passenger vessels covered by the americans with disabilities act. while we believe our vessels have been designed and outfitted to meet the needs of our guests with disabilities, we cannot at this time accurately predict whether we will be required to make material modifications or incur significant additional expenses given the preliminary status of the proposed guidelines. 18 table of contents taxation of the company the following is a summary of our principal taxes, exemptions and special regimes. in addition to or instead of income taxation, virtually all jurisdictions where our ships call impose some tax or fee, or both, based on guest headcount, tonnage or some other measure. our consolidated operations are primarily foreign corporations engaged in the owning and operating of passenger cruise ships in international transportation. u.s. income taxation the following is a discussion of the application of the u.s. federal and state income tax laws to us and is based on the current provisions of the u.s. internal revenue code, treasury department regulations, administrative rulings, court decisions and the relevant state tax laws, regulations, rulings and court decisions of the states where we have business operations. all of the foregoing is subject to change, and any such change could affect the accuracy of this discussion. application of section 883 of the internal revenue code we and celebrity cruises, inc. are engaged in a trade or business in the united states, and many of our ship-owning subsidiaries, depending upon the itineraries of their ships, receive income from sources within the united states. additionally, our united kingdom tonnage tax company is a ship-operating company classified as a disregarded entity for u.s. federal income tax purposes that may earn u.s. source income. under section 883 of the internal revenue code, certain foreign corporations may exclude from gross income (and effectively from branch profits tax as such earnings do not give rise to effectively connected earnings and profits) u.s. source income derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, including income from the leasing of such ships. a foreign corporation will qualify for the benefits of section 883 if, in relevant part: (1) the foreign country in which the foreign corporation is organized grants an equivalent exemption to corporations organized in the united states; and (2) the stock of the corporation (or the direct or indirect corporate parent thereof) is primarily and regularly traded on an established securities market in the united states. in the opinion of our u.s. tax counsel, drinker biddle &amp; reath llp, based on the representations and assumptions set forth in that opinion, we, celebrity cruises inc. and our ship-owning subsidiaries with u.s. source shipping income qualify for the benefits of section 883 because we and each of those subsidiaries are incorporated in liberia, which is a qualifying country, and our common stock is primarily and regularly traded on an established securities market in the united states (i.e., we are a "publicly traded" corporation). if, in the future, (1) liberia no longer qualifies as an equivalent exemption jurisdiction, and we do not reincorporate in a jurisdiction that does qualify for the exemption, or (2) we fail to qualify as a publicly traded corporation, we and all of our ship-owning or operating subsidiaries that rely on section 883 to exclude qualifying income from gross income would be subject to u.s. federal income tax on their u.s. source shipping income and income from activities incidental thereto. we believe that most of our income and the income of our ship-owning subsidiaries, including our u.k. tonnage tax company which is considered a division for u.s. tax purposes, is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships and, therefore, is exempt from taxation under section 883. regulations under section 883 list activities that are not considered by the internal revenue service to be incidental to the international operation of ships including the sale of air and land transportation, shore excursions and pre- and post-cruise tours. our income from these activities that is earned from sources within the united states will be subject to u.s. taxation. taxation in the absence of an exemption under section 883 if we, the operator of our vessels, celebrity cruises inc., or our ship-owning subsidiaries were to fail to meet 19 table of contents the requirements of section 883 of the internal revenue code, or if the provision was repealed, then, as explained below, such companies would be subject to u.s. income taxation on a portion of their income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships. because we and celebrity cruises inc. conduct a trade or business in the united states, we and celebrity cruises inc. would be taxable at regular corporate rates on our separate company taxable income (i.e., without regard to the income of our ship-owning subsidiaries) on income which is effectively connected with our u.s. trade or business (generally only income from u.s. sources). in addition, if any of our earnings and profits effectively connected with our u.s. trade or business were withdrawn, or were deemed to have been withdrawn, from our u.s. trade or business, those withdrawn amounts would be subject to a branch profits tax at the rate of 30%. we and celebrity cruises inc. would also be potentially subject to tax on portions of certain interest paid by us at rates of up to 30%. if section 883 were not available to our ship-owning subsidiaries, each such subsidiary would be subject to a special 4% tax on its u.s. source gross transportation income, if any, each year because it does not have a fixed place of business in the united states and its income is derived from the leasing of a ship. other united states taxation we and celebrity cruises, inc. earn u.s. source income from activities not considered incidental to international shipping. the tax on such income is not material to our results of operation for all years presented. state taxation we, celebrity cruises inc. and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to various u.s. state income taxes which are generally imposed on each state's portion of the u.s. source income subject to federal income taxes. additionally, the state of alaska subjects an allocated portion of the total income of companies doing business in alaska and certain other affiliated companies to alaska corporate state income taxes and also imposes a 33% tax on adjusted gross income from onboard gambling activities conducted in alaska waters. this did not have a material impact to our results of operations for all years presented. maltese and spanish income taxation effective july 31, 2016, we sold 51% of our interest in pullmantur holdings. we account for our retained investment under the equity method of accounting. there was no tax impact to us as a result of this sale transaction. the surviving pullmantur company continues to be subject to the tax laws of spain and malta. under the sale agreement, we remain responsible for pre-sale tax matters with respect to years that are still open under the statute of limitations. united kingdom income taxation we operate fourteen ships under companies which have elected to be subject to the united kingdom tonnage tax regime ( u.k. tonnage tax ). companies subject to u.k. tonnage tax pay a corporate tax on a notional profit determined with reference to the net tonnage of qualifying vessels. the requirements for a company to qualify for the u.k. tonnage tax regime include being subject to u.k. corporate income tax, operating qualifying ships, which are strategically and commercially managed in the united kingdom, and fulfilling a seafarer training requirement. failure to meet any of these requirements could cause us to lose the benefit of the tonnage tax regime which could have a material effect on our results of operations. relevant shipping profits include income from the operation of qualifying ships and from shipping related activities. our u.k. income from non-shipping activities which do not qualify under the u.k. tonnage tax regime and 20 table of contents which are not considered significant, remain subject to u.k. corporate income tax. brazilian income taxation previously, pullmantur and our u.k. tonnage tax company chartered certain ships to brazilian subsidiary companies for operations in brazil. both pullmantur and royal caribbean international ceased charters to brazil in january 2016 and march 2016, respectively. while brazilian charters took place, the brazilian subsidiaries' earnings were subject to brazilian taxation which was not considered significant. the charter payments made to the u.k. tonnage tax company and to pullmantur were exempt from brazilian income tax under brazilian domestic law. additionally, remittances of revenue from sales of certain cruises in the brazilian market are subject to taxation. chinese taxation our u.k. tonnage tax company operates ships in international transportation in china. the income earned from this operation is exempt from taxation in china under the u.k./china double tax treaty and other circulars addressing indirect taxes. changes to or failure to qualify for the treaty or circular could cause us to lose the benefits provided which would have a material impact on our results of operations. our chinese income from non-shipping activities or from shipping activities not qualifying for treaty or circular protection and which are considered insignificant, remain subject to chinese taxation. other taxation we and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to value-added and other indirect taxes most of which are reclaimable, zero-rated or exempt. changes in the application or interpretation of applicable indirect tax laws or changes in tax legislation could have a material impact on our results of operations. website access to reports we make available, free of charge, access to our annual reports, all quarterly and current reports and all amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission through our website at www.rclinvestor.com . the information contained on our website is not a part of any of these reports and is not incorporated by reference herein. 21 table of contents executive officers of the company as of february 23, 2017 , our executive officers are: name age position richard d. fain 69 chairman, chief executive officer and director adam m. goldstein 57 president and chief operating officer michael w. bayley 58 president and chief executive officer, royal caribbean international lisa lutoff-perlo 59 president and chief executive officer, celebrity cruises lawrence pimentel 65 president and chief executive officer, azamara club cruises jason t. liberty 41 chief financial officer harri u. kulovaara 64 executive vice president, maritime bradley h. stein 61 senior vice president, general counsel, chief compliance officer henry l. pujol 49 senior vice president, chief accounting officer richard d. fain has served as a director since 1979 and as our chairman and chief executive officer since 1988. mr. fain is a recognized industry leader, having participated in shipping for almost 40 years and having held a number of prominent industry positions, such as chairman of the cruise lines international association (clia), the largest cruise industry trade association. he currently serves as chairman of the university of miami board of trustees as well as on the national board of the posse foundation. he is also former chairman of the miami business forum, the greater miami convention and visitors bureau, and the united way of miami-dade. adam m. goldstein has served as president and chief operating officer since april 2014. prior to this, he served as president of royal caribbean international since february 2005 and as its president and chief executive officer since september 2007. mr. goldstein has been employed with royal caribbean since 1988 in a variety of positions, including executive vice president, brand operations of royal caribbean international, senior vice president, total guest satisfaction and senior vice president, marketing. mr. goldstein served as national chair of the united states travel association (formerly, travel industry association of america) in 2001 and as chairman of clia in 2015 and 2016. mr. goldstein began a two-year term as chairman of the florida-caribbean cruise association (fcca) in january 2017. michael w. bayley has served as president and chief executive officer of royal caribbean international since december 2014. prior to this, he served as president and chief executive officer of celebrity cruises since august 2012. mr. bayley has been employed by royal caribbean for over 30 years, having started as an assistant purser onboard one of the company's ships. he has served in a number of roles including as executive vice president, operations from february 2012 until august 2012. other positions mr. bayley has held include executive vice president, international from may 2010 until february 2012; senior vice president, international from december 2007 to may 2010; senior vice president, hotel operations for royal caribbean international; and chairman and managing director of island cruises. lisa lutoff-perlo has served as president and chief executive officer of celebrity cruises since december 2014. prior to this, she served as executive vice president, operations for royal caribbean international from september 2012 to december 2014, where she was responsible for all of royal caribbean international's hotel, marine and port operations. ms. lutoff-perlo has been employed with the company since 1985 in a variety of positions within both celebrity cruises and royal caribbean international. she started at royal caribbean international as district sales manager for new england and from august 2008 to august 2012 she was responsible for celebrity cruises' hotel operation. lawrence pimentel has served as president and chief executive officer of azamara club cruises since july 2009. from 2001 until january 2009, mr. pimentel was president, chief executive officer, director and co-owner of seadream yacht club, a privately held luxury cruise line located in miami, florida with two yacht-style ships that sailed primarily in the caribbean and mediterranean. from april 1991 to february 2001, mr. pimentel was president 22 table of contents and chief executive officer of carnival corp.'s seabourn cruise line and from may 1998 to february 2001, he was president and chief executive officer of carnival corp.'s cunard line. jason t. liberty has been employed by the company since 2005 and has served as chief financial officer since may 2013. mr. liberty previously served as senior vice president, strategy and finance from september 2012 through may 2013, overseeing the company's corporate and strategic planning, treasury, investor relations and deployment functions. prior to this, mr. liberty served, from 2010 through 2012, as vice president of corporate and revenue planning and, from 2008 to 2010, as vice president of corporate and strategic planning. before joining royal caribbean, mr. liberty was a senior manager at the international public accounting firm of kpmg llp. harri u. kulovaara has served as executive vice president, maritime since january 2005. mr. kulovaara is responsible for fleet design and newbuild operations. mr. kulovaara also chairs our maritime safety advisory board. mr. kulovaara has been employed with royal caribbean since 1995 in a variety of positions, including senior vice president, marine operations, and senior vice president, quality assurance. mr. kulovaara is a naval architect and engineer. bradley h. stein has served as general counsel of the company since 2006. he has also served as senior vice president and chief compliance officer of the company since february 2009 and february 2011, respectively. mr. stein has been with royal caribbean since 1992. before joining royal caribbean, mr. stein worked in private practice in new york and miami. henry l. pujol has served as senior vice president, chief accounting officer of the company since may 2013. mr. pujol originally joined royal caribbean in 2004 as assistant controller and was promoted to corporate controller in may 2007. before joining royal caribbean, mr. pujol was a senior manager at the international public accounting firm of kpmg llp. 23 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k are important factors that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historical results. it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks. there may be additional risks that we consider not to be material, or which are not known, and any of these risks could have the effects set forth below. the ordering of the risk factors set forth below is not intended to reflect any company indication of priority or likelihood. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for a cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements. adverse worldwide economic or other conditions could reduce the demand for cruises and passenger spending, adversely impacting our operating results, cash flows and financial condition including potentially impairing the value of our ships and other assets. the demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic conditions. weak or uncertain economic conditions impact consumer confidence and pose a risk as vacationers may postpone or reduce discretionary spending. this, in turn, may result in cruise booking slowdowns, decreased cruise prices and lower onboard revenues. given the global nature of our business, we are exposed to many different economies and our business could be hurt by challenging conditions in any of our markets. any significant deterioration of global, national or local economic conditions could result in a prolonged period of booking slowdowns, depressed cruise prices and reduced onboard revenues. fears of terrorist attacks, war, and other hostilities could have a negative impact on our results of operations. events such as terrorist attacks, war (or war-like conditions), conflicts (domestic or cross-border), civil unrest and other hostilities, including an escalation in the frequency or severity of incidents, and the resulting political instability, travel restrictions and advisories, and concerns over safety and security aspects of traveling or the fear of any of the foregoing have had, and could have in the future, a significant adverse impact on demand and pricing in the travel and vacation industry. for example, the series of terrorism incidents throughout europe in early 2016 negatively impacted demand for european cruises in 2016, particularly as it relates to demand for these cruises from north american guests. in view of our global operations, we are susceptible to a wide range of adverse events. our operating costs could increase due to market forces and economic or geo-political factors beyond our control. our operating costs, including fuel, food, payroll and benefits, airfare, taxes, insurance and security costs are all subject to increases due to market forces and economic or political conditions or other factors beyond our control. increases in these operating costs could adversely affect our profitability. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, fuel prices and interest rates could affect our financial results. we are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, fuel prices and interest rates. significant changes in any of the foregoing could have a material impact on our financial results, net of the impact of our hedging activities and natural offsets. our operating results have been and will continue to be impacted, often significantly, by changes in each of these factors. the value of our earnings in foreign currencies is adversely impacted by a strong united states dollar. in addition, any significant increase in fuel prices could materially adversely affect our business as fuel prices not only impact our fuel costs, but also some of our other expenses, such as crew travel, freight and commodity prices. also, while interest rates have been near historic lows for several years, prevailing rates started to increase at the end of 2015 and are expected to continue to rise in 2017, which, given our level of variable rate indebtedness, would adversely impact our operating results. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for more information. conducting business globally may result in increased costs and other risks. 24 table of contents we operate our business globally. operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including increased exposure to a wider range of regional and local economic conditions, volatile local political conditions, potential changes in duties and taxes, including changing and/or uncertain interpretations of existing tax laws and regulations, required compliance with additional laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses or governing the operations of foreign-based companies, currency fluctuations, interest rate movements, difficulties in operating under local business environments, port quality and availability in certain regions, u.s. and global anti-bribery laws or regulations, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings. our future growth strategies increasingly depend on the growth and sustained profitability of certain international markets, such as china. some factors that will be critical to our success in developing these markets may be different than those affecting our more-established north american and european markets. in the chinese market, in particular, our future success depends on our ability to continue to raise awareness of our products, evolve the available distribution channels and adapt our offerings to best suit the chinese consumer. china's economy differs from the economies of other developed countries in many respects and, as the legal and regulatory system in china continues to evolve, there may be greater uncertainty as to the interpretation and enforcement of applicable laws and regulations. operating globally also exposes us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal, regulatory and tax requirements. in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business communities might not conform to international business standards. we must adhere to policies designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance as well as applicable laws and regulations. however, we might not be successful in ensuring that our employees, agents, representatives and other third parties with whom we associate throughout the world properly adhere to them. failure by us, our employees or any of these third parties to adhere to our policies or applicable laws or regulations could result in penalties, sanctions, damage to our reputation and related costs which in turn could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. we have operations in and source passengers from the united kingdom and other member countries of the european union. on june 23, 2016, voters in the united kingdom approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the european union. the proposed withdrawal has resulted in increased volatility in the global financial markets and, in particular, in global currency exchange rates. the proposed withdrawal could potentially adversely affect tax, legal and regulatory regimes to which our business in the region is subject. the withdrawal could also, among other potential outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the united kingdom and the european union. further, uncertainty around these issues could lead to adverse effects on the economy of the united kingdom and the other economies in which we operate, making it more difficult to source passengers from these regions. these risks may be exacerbated if voters of other countries within the european union similarly elect to exit the european union in future referendums. as a global operator, our business may be impacted by changes in u.s. policy in areas such as trade, immigration and/or environmental or labor regulations, among others. depending on the nature and scope of these changes, they could impact our domestic and international business operations. while still unclear, these changes, and any international response to them, could potentially introduce new barriers to passenger travel and/or cross border transactions. if we are unable to address these risks adequately, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected, including potentially impairing the value of our ships and other assets. price increases for commercial airline service for our guests or major changes or reduction in commercial airline service and/or availability could adversely impact the demand for cruises and undermine our ability to provide reasonably priced vacation packages to our guests. many of our guests depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to or from the ports where our cruises embark or disembark. increases in the price of airfare would increase the overall price of the cruise vacation to our guests, which may adversely impact demand for our cruises. in addition, changes in the availability of commercial airline services could adversely affect our guests' ability to obtain airfare, as well as our ability to fly our guests to or from our cruise ships, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 25 table of contents incidents or adverse publicity concerning our ships and/or passengers or the cruise vacation industry in general, unusual weather conditions and other natural disasters or disruptions could affect our reputation as well as impact our sales and results of operations. the ownership and/or operation of cruise ships, airplanes, private destinations, port facilities and shore excursions involves the risk of accidents, illnesses, mechanical failures, environmental incidents and other incidents which may bring into question safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction which could negatively impact our reputation. incidents involving cruise ships, and, in particular the safety, health and security of guests and crew and media coverage thereof have impacted and could in the future impact demand for our cruises and pricing in the industry. our reputation and our business could also be damaged by negative publicity regarding the cruise industry in general, including publicity regarding the spread of contagious disease and the potentially adverse environmental impacts of cruising. the considerable expansion in the use of social media and digital marketing over recent years has compounded the potential scope of any negative publicity. if any such incident or news cycle occurs during a time of high seasonal demand, the effect could disproportionately impact our results of operations for the year. in addition, incidents involving cruise ships may result in additional costs to our business, increasing government or other regulatory oversight and, in the case of incidents involving our ships, potential litigation. our cruise ships and port facilities may also be adversely impacted by unusual weather patterns or natural disasters or disruptions, such as hurricanes. we are often forced to alter itineraries and occasionally to cancel a cruise or a series of cruises due to these or other factors, which could have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. increases in the frequency, severity or duration of severe weather events, including those related to climate change, could exacerbate the impact and cause further disruption to our operations. in addition, these and any other events which impact the travel industry more generally may negatively impact our ability to deliver guests or crew to our cruises and/or interrupt our ability to obtain services and goods from key vendors in our supply chain. any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and on industry performance. an increase in capacity worldwide or excess capacity in a particular market could adversely impact our cruise sales and/or pricing. although our ships can be redeployed, cruise sales and/or pricing may be impacted by the introduction of new ships into the marketplace, reductions in cruise capacity, overall market growth and deployment decisions of ourselves and our competitors. a total of 60 new ships with approximately 173,000 berths are on order for delivery through 2021 in the cruise industry. the further net growth in capacity from these new ships and future orders, without an increase in the cruise industry's demand and/or share of the vacation market, could depress cruise prices and impede our ability to achieve yield improvement. in addition, to the extent that we or our competitors deploy ships to a particular itinerary and the resulting capacity in that region exceeds the demand, we may lower pricing and profitability may be lower than anticipated. this risk may be amplified in emerging cruise markets, such as china, where we expect continuing increases in capacity over a relatively short time horizon. any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, including potentially impairing the value of our ships and other assets. unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our results of operations . we believe that port destinations are a major reason why guests choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. the availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including existing capacity constraints, constraints related to the size of certain ships, security, environmental and health concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, local governmental regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists. in addition, fuel costs may adversely impact the destinations on certain of our itineraries. any limitations on the availability or feasibility of our ports of call or on the availability of shore excursions and other service providers at such ports could adversely affect our results of operations. 26 table of contents our reliance on shipyards and their subcontractors to implement our newbuild and ship upgrade programs and to repair and maintain our ships exposes us to risks which, if realized, could adversely impact our business. we rely on shipyards and their subcontractors to effectively construct our new ships and to repair, maintain and upgrade our existing ships on a timely basis and in a cost effective manner. there are a limited number of shipyards with the capability and capacity to build our new ships and, accordingly, increased demand for available new construction slots and/or continued consolidation in the cruise shipyard industry (including completion of italian shipbuilder fincantieri's bid for stx france) could impact our ability to construct new ships when and as planned, cause us to continue to commit to new ship orders earlier than we have historically done so and/or result in stronger bargaining power on the part of the shipyards and the export credit agencies providing financing for the project. our inability to timely and cost-effectively procure new capacity could have a significant negative impact on our future business plans and results of operations. building, repairing, maintaining and/or upgrading a ship is sophisticated work that involves significant risks, and shipyards and/or their subcontractors may encounter financial, technical or design problems when doing these jobs. if materialized, these problems could impact the timely delivery or costs of new ships or the ability of shipyards to repair and upgrade our fleet in accordance with our needs or expectations. in addition, delays or mechanical faults may result in cancellation of cruises or, in more severe situations, new ship orders, or necessitate unscheduled drydocks and repairs of ships. these events and any related adverse publicity could result in lost revenue, increased operating expenses, or both, and thus adversely affect our results of operations. we may lose business to competitors throughout the vacation market . we operate in the vacation market and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. we therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators, which provide other leisure options including hotels, resorts, internet-based alternative lodging sites and package holidays and tours. we face significant competition from other cruise lines on the basis of cruise pricing, travel agent preference and also in terms of the nature of ships and services we offer to guests. our principal competitors within the cruise vacation industry include carnival corporation &amp; plc, which owns, among others, aida cruises, carnival cruise line, costa cruises, cunard line, holland america line, p&amp;o cruises and princess cruises; disney cruise line; msc cruises; and norwegian cruise line holdings ltd which owns norwegian cruise line, oceania cruises and regent seven seas cruises. our revenues are sensitive to the actions of other cruise lines in many areas including pricing, scheduling, capacity and promotions, which can have a substantial adverse impact not only on our revenues, but on overall industry revenues. in the event that we do not effectively market or differentiate our cruise brands from our competitors or otherwise compete effectively with other vacation alternatives and new or existing cruise companies, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. we may not be able to obtain sufficient financing or capital for our needs or may not be able to do so on terms that are acceptable or consistent with our expectations. to fund our capital expenditures (including new ship orders), operations and scheduled debt payments, we have historically relied on a combination of cash flows provided by operations, drawdowns under available credit facilities, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the sale of equity or debt securities in private or public securities markets. any circumstance or event which leads to a decrease in consumer cruise spending, such as worsening global economic conditions or significant incidents impacting the cruise industry, could negatively affect our operating cash flows. see - adverse worldwide economic, geopolitical or other conditions and - incidents or adverse publicity concerning our ships and/or passengers or the cruise vacation industry for more information. although we believe we can access sufficient liquidity to fund our operations, investments and obligations as expected, there can be no assurances to that effect. our ability to access additional funding as and when needed, our 27 table of contents ability to timely refinance and/or replace our outstanding debt securities and credit facilities on acceptable terms and our cost of funding will depend upon numerous factors including, but not limited to, the vibrancy of the financial markets, our financial performance, the performance of our industry in general and the size, scope and timing of our financial needs. in addition, even where financing commitments have been secured, significant disruptions in the capital and credit markets could cause our banking and other counterparties to breach their contractual obligations to us. this could include failures of banks or other financial service companies to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements or to pay us amounts that may become due or return collateral that is refundable under our derivative contracts for hedging of fuel prices, interest rates and foreign currencies or other agreements. if any of the foregoing occurs it may have a negative impact on our cash flows, including our ability to meet our obligations, our results of operations and our financial condition. our liquidity could be adversely impacted if we are unable to satisfy the covenants required by our credit facilities or if we are required to post a significant amount of collateral under our interest rate hedging contracts. our debt agreements contain covenants, including covenants restricting our ability to take certain actions and financial covenants. in addition, our ability to make borrowings under our available credit facilities is subject to the absence of material adverse changes in our business. our ability to maintain our credit facilities may also be impacted by changes in our ownership base. more specifically, we may be required to prepay our ship financing facilities if any person acquires ownership of more than 50% of our common stock or, subject to certain exceptions, during any 24-month period, a majority of the board is no longer comprised of individuals who were members of the board on the first day of such period. our public debt securities also contain change of control provisions that would be triggered by a third-party acquisition of greater than 50% of our common stock coupled with a ratings downgrade. our failure to comply with the terms of our debt facilities could result in an event of default. generally, if an event of default under any debt agreement occurs, then pursuant to cross default acceleration clauses, our outstanding debt and derivative contract payables could become due and/or terminated. in addition, in such events, our credit card processors could hold back payments to create a reserve. we cannot provide assurances that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay, or the ability to refinance the debt if such amounts were accelerated upon an event of default. if we are unable to appropriately balance our cost management and capital allocation strategies with our goal of satisfying guest expectations, it may adversely impact our business success. our goals call for us to provide high quality products and deliver high quality services. there can be no assurance that we can successfully balance these goals with our cost management and capital allocation strategies. our business also requires us to make capital allocation decisions, such as ordering new ships and/or upgrading our ships, based on expected market preferences and projected demand. there can be no assurance that our strategies will be successful, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. our attempts to expand our business into new markets and new ventures may not be successful. we opportunistically seek to grow our business through, among other things, expansion into new destination or source markets and establishment of new ventures complementary to our current offerings. these attempts to expand our business increase the complexity of our business, require significant levels of investment and can strain our management, personnel, operations and systems. there can be no assurance that these business expansion efforts will develop as anticipated or that we will succeed, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. our reliance on travel agencies to sell and market our cruises exposes us to certain risks which, if realized, could adversely impact our business. we rely on travel agencies to generate the majority of bookings for our ships. accordingly, we must ensure that our commission rates and incentive structures remain competitive. if we fail to offer competitive compensation packages, these agencies may be incentivized to sell cruises offered by our competitors to our detriment, which could adversely impact our operating results. our reliance on third-party sellers is particularly pronounced in certain markets, 28 table of contents such as china, where we have a large number of travel agent charter and group sales and less retail agency and direct booking. in addition, the travel agent industry is sensitive to economic conditions that impact discretionary income. significant disruptions, especially disruptions impacting those agencies that sell a high volume of our business, or contractions in the industry could reduce the number of travel agencies available for us to market and sell our cruises, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. disruptions in our shoreside operations or our information systems may adversely affect our results of operations. our principal executive office and principal shoreside operations are located in florida and we have shoreside offices throughout the world. actual or threatened natural disasters (e.g., hurricanes/typhoons, earthquakes, tornadoes, fires or floods) or similar events in these locations may have a material impact on our business continuity, reputation and results of operations. in addition, substantial or repeated information systems failures, computer viruses or cyber-attacks impacting our shoreside or shipboard operations could adversely impact our business. we do not generally carry business interruption insurance for our shoreside operations or our information systems. as such, any losses or damages incurred by us could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. the loss of key personnel, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel, or disruptions among our shipboard personnel due to strained employee relations could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends, in large part, on the skills and contributions of key executives and other employees, and on our ability to recruit and retain high quality personnel in key markets. we must continue to sufficiently recruit, retain, train and motivate our employees to maintain our current business and support our projected global growth both shoreside and on our ships. furthermore, as of december 31, 2016, 85% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. a dispute under our collective bargaining agreements could result in a work stoppage of those employees covered by the agreements. we may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate these collective bargaining agreements when they expire. in addition, existing collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage on our ships. we may also be subject to or affected by work stoppages unrelated to our business or collective bargaining agreements. any such work stoppages or potential work stoppages could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, as could a loss of key employees, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel or disruptions among our personnel. business activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may subject us to additional risks. partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties, generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. with the sale of 51% of our interest in pullmantur in july 2016, we continue to expand the breadth of our co-investment activities, which also include tui cruises, skysea cruises, grand bahama shipyard and minority ownership investments in various port development and other projects. in addition to financial risks, our co-investment activities may also present managerial and operational risks and expose us to reputational or legal concerns. these or other issues related to our co-investment with third parties could adversely impact our operations. we rely on supply chain vendors and third-party service providers who are integral to the operations of our businesses. these vendors and service providers may be unable or unwilling to deliver on their commitments or may act in ways that could harm our business. we rely on supply chain vendors to deliver key products to the operations of our businesses around the world. any event impacting a vendor's ability to deliver goods of the required quality at the location and time needed could negatively impact our ability to deliver our cruise experience. events impacting our supply chain could be caused by factors beyond the control of our suppliers or us, including inclement weather, natural disasters, increased demand, problems in production or distribution and/or disruptions in third party logistics or transportation systems. interruptions to our supply chain could increase costs and could limit the availability of products critical to our operations. 29 table of contents in order to achieve cost and operational efficiencies, we outsource to third-party vendors certain services that are integral to the operations of our global businesses, such as our onboard concessionaires, certain of our call center operations and operation of a large part of our information technology systems. we are subject to the risk that certain decisions are subject to the control of our third-party service providers and that these decisions may adversely affect our activities. a failure to adequately monitor a third-party service provider's compliance with a service level agreement or regulatory or legal requirements could result in significant economic and reputational harm to us. there is also a risk the confidentiality, privacy and/or security of data held by third parties or communicated over third-party networks or platforms could become compromised. a failure to keep pace with developments in technology or technological obsolescence could impair our operations or competitive position. our business continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems. these technologies and systems must be refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems in order to continue to meet our customers' demands and expectations. if we are unable to do so in a timely manner or within reasonable cost parameters or if we are unable to appropriately and timely train our employees to operate any of these new systems, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. we may be exposed to risks and costs associated with cyber security, including protecting the integrity and security of our guests', employees' and business partners' personal information. we are subject to various risks associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of sensitive information, including risks related to compliance with applicable laws and other contractual obligations, as well as the risk that our systems collecting such information could be compromised. in the course of doing business, we collect large volumes of internal and customer data, including personally identifiable information for various business purposes. we are subject to federal, state and international laws relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personally identifiable information. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between the company and its subsidiaries, and among the company, its subsidiaries and other parties with which the company has commercial relations. several jurisdictions have passed laws in this area, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. these laws continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. complying with emerging and changing international requirements may cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices. if we fail to comply with the various applicable data collection and privacy laws, we could be exposed to fines, penalties, restrictions, litigation or other expenses, and our business could be adversely impacted. in addition, even if we are fully compliant with legal standards and contractual requirements, we still may not be able to prevent security breaches involving sensitive data. any breach, theft, loss, or fraudulent use of guest, employee or company data could adversely impact our reputation and brand and our ability to retain or attract new customers, and expose us to risks of data loss, business disruption, governmental investigation, litigation and other liability, any of which could adversely affect our business. significant capital investments and other expenditures could be required to remedy the problem and prevent future breaches, including costs associated with additional security technologies, personnel, experts and credit monitoring services for those whose data has been breached. further, if we or our vendors experience significant data security breaches or fail to detect and appropriately respond to significant data security breaches, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation. additionally, the techniques and sophistication used to conduct cyber-attacks and breaches of information technology systems, as well as the sources and targets of these attacks, change frequently and are often not recognized until such attacks are launched or have been in place for a period of time. our security measures cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in preventing or identifying such breaches. the potential unavailability of insurance coverage or an inability to obtain insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. 30 table of contents we seek to maintain appropriate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates. we normally insure based on the cost of an asset rather than replacement value and we also elect to self-insure, co-insure, or use deductibles in certain circumstances for certain risks such as loss of use of a ship or a cyber-security breach. the limits of insurance coverage we purchase are based on the availability of the coverage, evaluation of our risk profile and cost of coverage. accordingly, we are not protected against all risks which could result in an unexpected decrease in our revenue and results of operations in the event of an incident. our protection and indemnity ( p&amp;i ) liability insurance is placed on a mutual basis and we are subject to additional premium calls in amounts based on claim records of all members of the p&amp;i club. we are also subject to additional premium assessments including, but not limited to, investment or underwriting shortfalls experienced by the p&amp;i club. we cannot be certain that insurance and reinsurance coverage will be available to us and at commercially reasonable rates in the future. additionally, if we or other insureds sustain significant losses, the result may be higher insurance premiums, cancellation of coverage, or the inability to obtain coverage. such events could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. environmental, labor, health and safety, financial responsibility and other maritime regulations could affect operations and increase operating costs. the united states and various state and foreign government or regulatory agencies have enacted or may enact environmental regulations or policies, such as requiring the use of low sulfur fuels, that could increase our direct cost to operate in certain markets, increase our cost for fuel, limit the supply of compliant fuel, cause us to incur significant expenses to purchase and/or develop new equipment and adversely impact the cruise vacation industry. while we have taken and expect to continue to take a number of actions to mitigate the potential impact of certain of these regulations, there can be no assurances that these efforts will be successful or completed on a timely basis. there is increasing global regulatory focus on climate change and greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions. these regulatory efforts, both internationally and in the united states are still developing, and we cannot yet determine what the final regulatory programs or their impact will be in any jurisdiction where we do business. however, such climate change-related regulatory activity in the future may adversely affect our business and financial results by requiring us to reduce our emissions, purchase allowances or otherwise pay for our emissions. such activity may also impact us by increasing our operating costs, including fuel costs. some environmental groups have also lobbied for more stringent regulation of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise vacation industry and its environmental impact. see item 1. business-regulation-environmental regulations . in addition, we are subject to various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties that govern, among other things, discharge from our ships, safety standards applicable to our ships, treatment of disabled persons, health and sanitary standards applicable to our guests, security standards on board our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities to our guests. these issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. this could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that could subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. a change in our tax status under the united states internal revenue code, or other jurisdictions, may have adverse effects on our income . we and a number of our subsidiaries are foreign corporations that derive income from a u.s. trade or business and/or from sources within the united states. drinker biddle &amp; reath llp, our u.s. tax counsel, has delivered to us an opinion, based on certain representations and assumptions set forth in it, to the effect that this income, to the extent derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, is excluded from gross income for u.s. federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 883 of the internal revenue code. we believe that most of our income (including that of our subsidiaries) is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships. 31 table of contents our ability to rely on section 883 could be challenged or could change in the future. provisions of the internal revenue code, including section 883, are subject to legislative change at any time. moreover, changes could occur in the future with respect to the identity, residence or holdings of our direct or indirect shareholders, trading volume or trading frequency of our shares, or relevant foreign tax laws of liberia such that it no longer qualifies as an equivalent exemption jurisdiction, that could affect our eligibility for the section 883 exemption. accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be exempt from u.s. income tax on u.s. source shipping income in the future. if we were not entitled to the benefit of section 883, we and our subsidiaries would be subject to u.s. taxation on a portion of the income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships, which would reduce our net income. additionally, portions of our business are operated by companies that are within tonnage tax regimes of the united kingdom and malta. further, some of our operations are conducted in jurisdictions where we rely on tax treaties to provide exemption from taxation. to the extent the tonnage tax laws of these countries change or we do not continue to meet the applicable qualification requirements or if tax treaties are changed or revoked, we may be required to pay higher income tax in these jurisdictions, adversely impacting our results of operations. as budgetary constraints continue to adversely impact the jurisdictions in which we operate, increases in income tax regulations, tax audits or tax reform affecting our operations may be imposed. litigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and/or damage our reputation. our business is subject to various united states and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. in addition, improper conduct by our employees, agents or joint venture partners could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. in certain circumstances it may not be economical to defend against such matters and/or a legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. we are not a united states corporation and our shareholders may be subject to the uncertainties of a foreign legal system in protecting their interests. our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the business corporation act of liberia. the provisions of the business corporation act of liberia resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the united states. however, while most states have a fairly well developed body of case law interpreting their respective corporate statutes, there are very few judicial cases in liberia interpreting the business corporation act of liberia. as such, the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under liberian law are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in certain united states jurisdictions. for example, the right of shareholders to bring a derivative action in liberian courts may be more limited than in united states jurisdictions. there may also be practical difficulties for shareholders attempting to bring suit in liberia and liberian courts may or may not recognize and enforce foreign judgments. thus, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests with respect to actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a united states jurisdiction. provisions of our articles of incorporation, by-laws and liberian law could inhibit others from acquiring us, prevent a change of control, and may prevent efforts by our shareholders to change our management. certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws and liberian law may inhibit third parties from effectuating a change of control of the company without board approval which could result in the entrenchment of current management. these include provisions in our articles of incorporation that prevent third parties, other than a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates, from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of our outstanding shares without the consent of our board of directors. 32 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for more information. conducting business globally may result in increased costs and other risks. 24 table of contents we operate our business globally. operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including increased exposure to a wider range of regional and local economic conditions, volatile local political conditions, potential changes in duties and taxes, including changing and/or uncertain interpretations of existing tax laws and regulations, required compliance with additional laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses or governing the operations of foreign-based companies, currency fluctuations, interest rate movements, difficulties in operating under local business environments, port quality and availability in certain regions, u.s. and global anti-bribery laws or regulations, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings. our future growth strategies increasingly depend on the growth and sustained profitability of certain international markets, such as china. some factors that will be critical to our success in developing these markets may be different than those affecting our more-established north american and european markets. in the chinese market, in particular, our future success depends on our ability to continue to raise awareness of our products, evolve the available distribution channels and adapt our offerings to best suit the chinese consumer. china's economy differs from the economies of other developed countries in many respects and, as the legal and regulatory system in china continues to evolve, there may be greater uncertainty as to the interpretation and enforcement of applicable laws and regulations. operating globally also exposes us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal, regulatory and tax requirements. in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business communities might not conform to international business standards. we must adhere to policies designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance as well as applicable laws and regulations. however, we might not be successful in ensuring that our employees, agents, representatives and other third parties with whom we associate throughout the world properly adhere to them. failure by us, our employees or any of these third parties to adhere to our policies or applicable laws or regulations could result in penalties, sanctions, damage to our reputation and related costs which in turn could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. we have operations in and source passengers from the united kingdom and other member countries of the european union. on june 23, 2016, voters in the united kingdom approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the european union. the proposed withdrawal has resulted in increased volatility in the global financial markets and, in particular, in global currency exchange rates. the proposed withdrawal could potentially adversely affect tax, legal and regulatory regimes to which our business in the region is subject. the withdrawal could also, among other potential outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the united kingdom and the european union. further, uncertainty around these issues could lead to adverse effects on the economy of the united kingdom and the other economies in which we operate, making it more difficult to source passengers from these regions. these risks may be exacerbated if voters of other countries within the european union similarly elect to exit the european union in future referendums. as a global operator, our business may be impacted by changes in u.s. policy in areas such as trade, immigration and/or environmental or labor regulations, among others. depending on the nature and scope of these changes, they could impact our domestic and international business operations. while still unclear, these changes, and any international response to them, could potentially introduce new barriers to passenger travel and/or cross border transactions. if we are unable to address these risks adequately, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected, including potentially impairing the value of our ships and other assets. price increases for commercial airline service for our guests or major changes or reduction in commercial airline service and/or availability could adversely impact the demand for cruises and undermine our ability to provide reasonably priced vacation packages to our guests. many of our guests depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to or from the ports where our cruises embark or disembark. increases in the price of airfare would increase the overall price of the cruise vacation to our guests, which may adversely impact demand for our cruises. in addition, changes in the availability of commercial airline services could adversely affect our guests' ability to obtain airfare, as well as our ability to fly our guests to or from our cruise ships, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 25 table of contents incidents or adverse publicity concerning our ships and/or passengers or the cruise vacation industry in general, unusual weather conditions and other natural disasters or disruptions could affect our reputation as well as impact our sales and results of operations. the ownership and/or operation of cruise ships, airplanes, private destinations, port facilities and shore excursions involves the risk of accidents, illnesses, mechanical failures, environmental incidents and other incidents which may bring into question safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction which could negatively impact our reputation. incidents involving cruise ships, and, in particular the safety, health and security of guests and crew and media coverage thereof have impacted and could in the future impact demand for our cruises and pricing in the industry. our reputation and our business could also be damaged by negative publicity regarding the cruise industry in general, including publicity regarding the spread of contagious disease and the potentially adverse environmental impacts of cruising. the considerable expansion in the use of social media and digital marketing over recent years has compounded the potential scope of any negative publicity. if any such incident or news cycle occurs during a time of high seasonal demand, the effect could disproportionately impact our results of operations for the year. in addition, incidents involving cruise ships may result in additional costs to our business, increasing government or other regulatory oversight and, in the case of incidents involving our ships, potential litigation. our cruise ships and port facilities may also be adversely impacted by unusual weather patterns or natural disasters or disruptions, such as hurricanes. we are often forced to alter itineraries and occasionally to cancel a cruise or a series of cruises due to these or other factors, which could have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability. increases in the frequency, severity or duration of severe weather events, including those related to climate change, could exacerbate the impact and cause further disruption to our operations. in addition, these and any other events which impact the travel industry more generally may negatively impact our ability to deliver guests or crew to our cruises and/or interrupt our ability to obtain services and goods from key vendors in our supply chain. any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and on industry performance. an increase in capacity worldwide or excess capacity in a particular market could adversely impact our cruise sales and/or pricing. although our ships can be redeployed, cruise sales and/or pricing may be impacted by the introduction of new ships into the marketplace, reductions in cruise capacity, overall market growth and deployment decisions of ourselves and our competitors. a total of 60 new ships with approximately 173,000 berths are on order for delivery through 2021 in the cruise industry. the further net growth in capacity from these new ships and future orders, without an increase in the cruise industry's demand and/or share of the vacation market, could depress cruise prices and impede our ability to achieve yield improvement. in addition, to the extent that we or our competitors deploy ships to a particular itinerary and the resulting capacity in that region exceeds the demand, we may lower pricing and profitability may be lower than anticipated. this risk may be amplified in emerging cruise markets, such as china, where we expect continuing increases in capacity over a relatively short time horizon. any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, including potentially impairing the value of our ships and other assets. unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our results of operations . we believe that port destinations are a major reason why guests choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. the availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including existing capacity constraints, constraints related to the size of certain ships, security, environmental and health concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, local governmental regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists. in addition, fuel costs may adversely impact the destinations on certain of our itineraries. any limitations on the availability or feasibility of our ports of call or on the availability of shore excursions and other service providers at such ports could adversely affect our results of operations. 26 table of contents our reliance on shipyards and their subcontractors to implement our newbuild and ship upgrade programs and to repair and maintain our ships exposes us to risks which, if realized, could adversely impact our business. we rely on shipyards and their subcontractors to effectively construct our new ships and to repair, maintain and upgrade our existing ships on a timely basis and in a cost effective manner. there are a limited number of shipyards with the capability and capacity to build our new ships and, accordingly, increased demand for available new construction slots and/or continued consolidation in the cruise shipyard industry (including completion of italian shipbuilder fincantieri's bid for stx france) could impact our ability to construct new ships when and as planned, cause us to continue to commit to new ship orders earlier than we have historically done so and/or result in stronger bargaining power on the part of the shipyards and the export credit agencies providing financing for the project. our inability to timely and cost-effectively procure new capacity could have a significant negative impact on our future business plans and results of operations. building, repairing, maintaining and/or upgrading a ship is sophisticated work that involves significant risks, and shipyards and/or their subcontractors may encounter financial, technical or design problems when doing these jobs. if materialized, these problems could impact the timely delivery or costs of new ships or the ability of shipyards to repair and upgrade our fleet in accordance with our needs or expectations. in addition, delays or mechanical faults may result in cancellation of cruises or, in more severe situations, new ship orders, or necessitate unscheduled drydocks and repairs of ships. these events and any related adverse publicity could result in lost revenue, increased operating expenses, or both, and thus adversely affect our results of operations. we may lose business to competitors throughout the vacation market . we operate in the vacation market and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. we therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators, which provide other leisure options including hotels, resorts, internet-based alternative lodging sites and package holidays and tours. we face significant competition from other cruise lines on the basis of cruise pricing, travel agent preference and also in terms of the nature of ships and services we offer to guests. our principal competitors within the cruise vacation industry include carnival corporation &amp; plc, which owns, among others, aida cruises, carnival cruise line, costa cruises, cunard line, holland america line, p&amp;o cruises and princess cruises; disney cruise line; msc cruises; and norwegian cruise line holdings ltd which owns norwegian cruise line, oceania cruises and regent seven seas cruises. our revenues are sensitive to the actions of other cruise lines in many areas including pricing, scheduling, capacity and promotions, which can have a substantial adverse impact not only on our revenues, but on overall industry revenues. in the event that we do not effectively market or differentiate our cruise brands from our competitors or otherwise compete effectively with other vacation alternatives and new or existing cruise companies, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. we may not be able to obtain sufficient financing or capital for our needs or may not be able to do so on terms that are acceptable or consistent with our expectations. to fund our capital expenditures (including new ship orders), operations and scheduled debt payments, we have historically relied on a combination of cash flows provided by operations, drawdowns under available credit facilities, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the sale of equity or debt securities in private or public securities markets. any circumstance or event which leads to a decrease in consumer cruise spending, such as worsening global economic conditions or significant incidents impacting the cruise industry, could negatively affect our operating cash flows. see - adverse worldwide economic, geopolitical or other conditions and - incidents or adverse publicity concerning our ships and/or passengers or the cruise vacation industry for more information. although we believe we can access sufficient liquidity to fund our operations, investments and obligations as expected, there can be no assurances to that effect. our ability to access additional funding as and when needed, our 27 table of contents ability to timely refinance and/or replace our outstanding debt securities and credit facilities on acceptable terms and our cost of funding will depend upon numerous factors including, but not limited to, the vibrancy of the financial markets, our financial performance, the performance of our industry in general and the size, scope and timing of our financial needs. in addition, even where financing commitments have been secured, significant disruptions in the capital and credit markets could cause our banking and other counterparties to breach their contractual obligations to us. this could include failures of banks or other financial service companies to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements or to pay us amounts that may become due or return collateral that is refundable under our derivative contracts for hedging of fuel prices, interest rates and foreign currencies or other agreements. if any of the foregoing occurs it may have a negative impact on our cash flows, including our ability to meet our obligations, our results of operations and our financial condition. our liquidity could be adversely impacted if we are unable to satisfy the covenants required by our credit facilities or if we are required to post a significant amount of collateral under our interest rate hedging contracts. our debt agreements contain covenants, including covenants restricting our ability to take certain actions and financial covenants. in addition, our ability to make borrowings under our available credit facilities is subject to the absence of material adverse changes in our business. our ability to maintain our credit facilities may also be impacted by changes in our ownership base. more specifically, we may be required to prepay our ship financing facilities if any person acquires ownership of more than 50% of our common stock or, subject to certain exceptions, during any 24-month period, a majority of the board is no longer comprised of individuals who were members of the board on the first day of such period. our public debt securities also contain change of control provisions that would be triggered by a third-party acquisition of greater than 50% of our common stock coupled with a ratings downgrade. our failure to comply with the terms of our debt facilities could result in an event of default. generally, if an event of default under any debt agreement occurs, then pursuant to cross default acceleration clauses, our outstanding debt and derivative contract payables could become due and/or terminated. in addition, in such events, our credit card processors could hold back payments to create a reserve. we cannot provide assurances that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay, or the ability to refinance the debt if such amounts were accelerated upon an event of default. if we are unable to appropriately balance our cost management and capital allocation strategies with our goal of satisfying guest expectations, it may adversely impact our business success. our goals call for us to provide high quality products and deliver high quality services. there can be no assurance that we can successfully balance these goals with our cost management and capital allocation strategies. our business also requires us to make capital allocation decisions, such as ordering new ships and/or upgrading our ships, based on expected market preferences and projected demand. there can be no assurance that our strategies will be successful, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. our attempts to expand our business into new markets and new ventures may not be successful. we opportunistically seek to grow our business through, among other things, expansion into new destination or source markets and establishment of new ventures complementary to our current offerings. these attempts to expand our business increase the complexity of our business, require significant levels of investment and can strain our management, personnel, operations and systems. there can be no assurance that these business expansion efforts will develop as anticipated or that we will succeed, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. our reliance on travel agencies to sell and market our cruises exposes us to certain risks which, if realized, could adversely impact our business. we rely on travel agencies to generate the majority of bookings for our ships. accordingly, we must ensure that our commission rates and incentive structures remain competitive. if we fail to offer competitive compensation packages, these agencies may be incentivized to sell cruises offered by our competitors to our detriment, which could adversely impact our operating results. our reliance on third-party sellers is particularly pronounced in certain markets, 28 table of contents such as china, where we have a large number of travel agent charter and group sales and less retail agency and direct booking. in addition, the travel agent industry is sensitive to economic conditions that impact discretionary income. significant disruptions, especially disruptions impacting those agencies that sell a high volume of our business, or contractions in the industry could reduce the number of travel agencies available for us to market and sell our cruises, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. disruptions in our shoreside operations or our information systems may adversely affect our results of operations. our principal executive office and principal shoreside operations are located in florida and we have shoreside offices throughout the world. actual or threatened natural disasters (e.g., hurricanes/typhoons, earthquakes, tornadoes, fires or floods) or similar events in these locations may have a material impact on our business continuity, reputation and results of operations. in addition, substantial or repeated information systems failures, computer viruses or cyber-attacks impacting our shoreside or shipboard operations could adversely impact our business. we do not generally carry business interruption insurance for our shoreside operations or our information systems. as such, any losses or damages incurred by us could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. the loss of key personnel, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel, or disruptions among our shipboard personnel due to strained employee relations could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends, in large part, on the skills and contributions of key executives and other employees, and on our ability to recruit and retain high quality personnel in key markets. we must continue to sufficiently recruit, retain, train and motivate our employees to maintain our current business and support our projected global growth both shoreside and on our ships. furthermore, as of december 31, 2016, 85% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. a dispute under our collective bargaining agreements could result in a work stoppage of those employees covered by the agreements. we may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate these collective bargaining agreements when they expire. in addition, existing collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage on our ships. we may also be subject to or affected by work stoppages unrelated to our business or collective bargaining agreements. any such work stoppages or potential work stoppages could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, as could a loss of key employees, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel or disruptions among our personnel. business activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may subject us to additional risks. partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties, generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. with the sale of 51% of our interest in pullmantur in july 2016, we continue to expand the breadth of our co-investment activities, which also include tui cruises, skysea cruises, grand bahama shipyard and minority ownership investments in various port development and other projects. in addition to financial risks, our co-investment activities may also present managerial and operational risks and expose us to reputational or legal concerns. these or other issues related to our co-investment with third parties could adversely impact our operations. we rely on supply chain vendors and third-party service providers who are integral to the operations of our businesses. these vendors and service providers may be unable or unwilling to deliver on their commitments or may act in ways that could harm our business. we rely on supply chain vendors to deliver key products to the operations of our businesses around the world. any event impacting a vendor's ability to deliver goods of the required quality at the location and time needed could negatively impact our ability to deliver our cruise experience. events impacting our supply chain could be caused by factors beyond the control of our suppliers or us, including inclement weather, natural disasters, increased demand, problems in production or distribution and/or disruptions in third party logistics or transportation systems. interruptions to our supply chain could increase costs and could limit the availability of products critical to our operations. 29 table of contents in order to achieve cost and operational efficiencies, we outsource to third-party vendors certain services that are integral to the operations of our global businesses, such as our onboard concessionaires, certain of our call center operations and operation of a large part of our information technology systems. we are subject to the risk that certain decisions are subject to the control of our third-party service providers and that these decisions may adversely affect our activities. a failure to adequately monitor a third-party service provider's compliance with a service level agreement or regulatory or legal requirements could result in significant economic and reputational harm to us. there is also a risk the confidentiality, privacy and/or security of data held by third parties or communicated over third-party networks or platforms could become compromised. a failure to keep pace with developments in technology or technological obsolescence could impair our operations or competitive position. our business continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems. these technologies and systems must be refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems in order to continue to meet our customers' demands and expectations. if we are unable to do so in a timely manner or within reasonable cost parameters or if we are unable to appropriately and timely train our employees to operate any of these new systems, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. we may be exposed to risks and costs associated with cyber security, including protecting the integrity and security of our guests', employees' and business partners' personal information. we are subject to various risks associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of sensitive information, including risks related to compliance with applicable laws and other contractual obligations, as well as the risk that our systems collecting such information could be compromised. in the course of doing business, we collect large volumes of internal and customer data, including personally identifiable information for various business purposes. we are subject to federal, state and international laws relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personally identifiable information. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between the company and its subsidiaries, and among the company, its subsidiaries and other parties with which the company has commercial relations. several jurisdictions have passed laws in this area, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. these laws continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. complying with emerging and changing international requirements may cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices. if we fail to comply with the various applicable data collection and privacy laws, we could be exposed to fines, penalties, restrictions, litigation or other expenses, and our business could be adversely impacted. in addition, even if we are fully compliant with legal standards and contractual requirements, we still may not be able to prevent security breaches involving sensitive data. any breach, theft, loss, or fraudulent use of guest, employee or company data could adversely impact our reputation and brand and our ability to retain or attract new customers, and expose us to risks of data loss, business disruption, governmental investigation, litigation and other liability, any of which could adversely affect our business. significant capital investments and other expenditures could be required to remedy the problem and prevent future breaches, including costs associated with additional security technologies, personnel, experts and credit monitoring services for those whose data has been breached. further, if we or our vendors experience significant data security breaches or fail to detect and appropriately respond to significant data security breaches, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation. additionally, the techniques and sophistication used to conduct cyber-attacks and breaches of information technology systems, as well as the sources and targets of these attacks, change frequently and are often not recognized until such attacks are launched or have been in place for a period of time. our security measures cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in preventing or identifying such breaches. the potential unavailability of insurance coverage or an inability to obtain insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. 30 table of contents we seek to maintain appropriate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates. we normally insure based on the cost of an asset rather than replacement value and we also elect to self-insure, co-insure, or use deductibles in certain circumstances for certain risks such as loss of use of a ship or a cyber-security breach. the limits of insurance coverage we purchase are based on the availability of the coverage, evaluation of our risk profile and cost of coverage. accordingly, we are not protected against all risks which could result in an unexpected decrease in our revenue and results of operations in the event of an incident. our protection and indemnity ( p&amp;i ) liability insurance is placed on a mutual basis and we are subject to additional premium calls in amounts based on claim records of all members of the p&amp;i club. we are also subject to additional premium assessments including, but not limited to, investment or underwriting shortfalls experienced by the p&amp;i club. we cannot be certain that insurance and reinsurance coverage will be available to us and at commercially reasonable rates in the future. additionally, if we or other insureds sustain significant losses, the result may be higher insurance premiums, cancellation of coverage, or the inability to obtain coverage. such events could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. environmental, labor, health and safety, financial responsibility and other maritime regulations could affect operations and increase operating costs. the united states and various state and foreign government or regulatory agencies have enacted or may enact environmental regulations or policies, such as requiring the use of low sulfur fuels, that could increase our direct cost to operate in certain markets, increase our cost for fuel, limit the supply of compliant fuel, cause us to incur significant expenses to purchase and/or develop new equipment and adversely impact the cruise vacation industry. while we have taken and expect to continue to take a number of actions to mitigate the potential impact of certain of these regulations, there can be no assurances that these efforts will be successful or completed on a timely basis. there is increasing global regulatory focus on climate change and greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions. these regulatory efforts, both internationally and in the united states are still developing, and we cannot yet determine what the final regulatory programs or their impact will be in any jurisdiction where we do business. however, such climate change-related regulatory activity in the future may adversely affect our business and financial results by requiring us to reduce our emissions, purchase allowances or otherwise pay for our emissions. such activity may also impact us by increasing our operating costs, including fuel costs. some environmental groups have also lobbied for more stringent regulation of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise vacation industry and its environmental impact. see item 1. business-regulation-environmental regulations . in addition, we are subject to various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties that govern, among other things, discharge from our ships, safety standards applicable to our ships, treatment of disabled persons, health and sanitary standards applicable to our guests, security standards on board our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities to our guests. these issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. this could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that could subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. a change in our tax status under the united states internal revenue code, or other jurisdictions, may have adverse effects on our income . we and a number of our subsidiaries are foreign corporations that derive income from a u.s. trade or business and/or from sources within the united states. drinker biddle &amp; reath llp, our u.s. tax counsel, has delivered to us an opinion, based on certain representations and assumptions set forth in it, to the effect that this income, to the extent derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, is excluded from gross income for u.s. federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 883 of the internal revenue code. we believe that most of our income (including that of our subsidiaries) is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships. 31 table of contents our ability to rely on section 883 could be challenged or could change in the future. provisions of the internal revenue code, including section 883, are subject to legislative change at any time. moreover, changes could occur in the future with respect to the identity, residence or holdings of our direct or indirect shareholders, trading volume or trading frequency of our shares, or relevant foreign tax laws of liberia such that it no longer qualifies as an equivalent exemption jurisdiction, that could affect our eligibility for the section 883 exemption. accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be exempt from u.s. income tax on u.s. source shipping income in the future. if we were not entitled to the benefit of section 883, we and our subsidiaries would be subject to u.s. taxation on a portion of the income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships, which would reduce our net income. additionally, portions of our business are operated by companies that are within tonnage tax regimes of the united kingdom and malta. further, some of our operations are conducted in jurisdictions where we rely on tax treaties to provide exemption from taxation. to the extent the tonnage tax laws of these countries change or we do not continue to meet the applicable qualification requirements or if tax treaties are changed or revoked, we may be required to pay higher income tax in these jurisdictions, adversely impacting our results of operations. as budgetary constraints continue to adversely impact the jurisdictions in which we operate, increases in income tax regulations, tax audits or tax reform affecting our operations may be imposed. litigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and/or damage our reputation. our business is subject to various united states and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. in addition, improper conduct by our employees, agents or joint venture partners could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. in certain circumstances it may not be economical to defend against such matters and/or a legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. we are not a united states corporation and our shareholders may be subject to the uncertainties of a foreign legal system in protecting their interests. our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the business corporation act of liberia. the provisions of the business corporation act of liberia resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the united states. however, while most states have a fairly well developed body of case law interpreting their respective corporate statutes, there are very few judicial cases in liberia interpreting the business corporation act of liberia. as such, the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under liberian law are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in certain united states jurisdictions. for example, the right of shareholders to bring a derivative action in liberian courts may be more limited than in united states jurisdictions. there may also be practical difficulties for shareholders attempting to bring suit in liberia and liberian courts may or may not recognize and enforce foreign judgments. thus, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests with respect to actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a united states jurisdiction. provisions of our articles of incorporation, by-laws and liberian law could inhibit others from acquiring us, prevent a change of control, and may prevent efforts by our shareholders to change our management. certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws and liberian law may inhibit third parties from effectuating a change of control of the company without board approval which could result in the entrenchment of current management. these include provisions in our articles of incorporation that prevent third parties, other than a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates, from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of our outstanding shares without the consent of our board of directors. 32 table of contents item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties information about our cruise ships, including their size and primary areas of operation, may be found within the operating strategies - fleet upgrade, maintenance and expansion section and the operations - cruise ships and itineraries sections in item 1 . business . information regarding our cruise ships under construction, estimated expenditures and financing may be found within the future capital commitments and funding needs and sources sections of item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our principal executive office and principal shoreside operations are located in leased office buildings at the port of miami, florida. we also lease a number of other offices in the us and throughout europe, asia, mexico, south america and australia to administer our brand operations globally. we believe that our facilities are adequate for our current needs and that we are capable of obtaining additional facilities as necessary. we also operate two private destinations which we utilize as ports-of-call on certain of our itineraries: (i) an island we own in the bahamas which we call cococay; and (ii) labadee, a secluded peninsula we lease on the north coast of haiti. item 3. legal proceedings in april 2015, the alaska department of environmental conservation issued notices of violation to royal caribbean international and celebrity cruises seeking monetary penalties for alleged violations of the alaska marine visible emission standards that occurred over the previous five years on certain of our vessels. in february 2017, we settled all claims pursuant to a compliance order by consent in which we agreed to pay an amount and perform certain remedial actions which, individually and in the aggregate, are immaterial to our financial condition or results of operations and cash flows. we are routinely involved in other claims typical within the cruise vacation industry. the majority of these claims are covered by insurance. we believe the outcome of such claims, net of expected insurance recoveries, will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations and cash flows. item 4. mine safety disclosures none. 33 table of contents part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities market information our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange ("nyse") under the symbol "rcl." the table below sets forth the high and low sales prices of our common stock as reported by the nyse for the two most recent years by quarter: nyse common stock high low 2016 fourth quarter $86.84 $67.53 third quarter $75.72 $65.10 second quarter $84.56 $64.95 first quarter $99.81 $64.21 2015 fourth quarter $103.40 $87.08 third quarter $97.60 $77.74 second quarter $83.32 $65.91 first quarter $85.56 $72.79 in 2015, we applied for and received approval to delist from the oslo stock exchange ("ose"). our last day of trading on the ose was march 8, 2016. holders as of february 9, 2017 there were 1,874 record holders of our common stock. since certain of our shares are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of shareholders, the foregoing number is not representative of the number of beneficial owners. dividends in 2015 , we declared cash dividends on our common stock of $0.30 per share during the first and second quarters of 2015 . we increased the dividend amount to $0.375 per share for the dividends declared in the third and fourth quarters of 2015 and the first and second quarters of 2016 . the dividend amount was increased to $0.48 per share for the dividends declared in the third and fourth quarters of 2016 . holders of our common stock have an equal right to share in our profits in the form of dividends when and if declared by our board of directors out of funds legally available. holders of our common stock have no rights to any sinking fund. there are no exchange control restrictions on remittances of dividends on our common stock since (1) we are and intend to maintain our status as a nonresident liberian entity under the liberia revenue code of 2000 as amended and the regulations thereunder, and (2) our ship-owning subsidiaries are not now engaged, and are not in the future expected to engage, in any business in liberia, including voyages exclusively within the territorial waters of the republic of liberia. under current liberian law, no liberian taxes or withholding will be imposed on payments to holders of our securities other than to a holder that is a resident liberian entity or a resident individual or an individual or entity subject to taxation in liberia as a result of having a permanent establishment within the meaning of the liberia revenue code of 2000 as amended in liberia. the declaration of dividends shall at all times be subject to the final determination of our board of directors that a dividend is prudent at that time in consideration of the needs of the business. 34 table of contents performance graph the following graph compares the total return, assuming reinvestment of dividends, on an investment in the company, based on performance of the company's common stock, with the total return of the standard &amp; poor's 500 composite stock index and the dow jones united states travel and leisure index for a five year period by measuring the changes in common stock prices from december 31, 2011 to december 31, 2016 . 12/11 12/12 12/13 12/14 12/15 12/16 royal caribbean cruises ltd . 100.00 139.36 198.03 350.40 437.09 362.38 s&amp;p 500 100.00 116.00 153.58 174.60 177.01 198.18 dow jones us travel &amp; leisure 100.00 113.33 164.87 191.85 203.17 218.56 the stock performance graph assumes for comparison that the value of the company's common stock and of each index was $100 on december 31, 2011 and that all dividends were reinvested. past performance is not necessarily an indicator of future results. 35 table of contents item 6. selected financial data the selected consolidated financial data presented below for the years 2012 through 2016 and as of the end of each such year, except for adjusted net income amounts, are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements and should be read in conjunction with those financial statements and the related notes as well as in conjunction with item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . year ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 (in thousands, except per share data) operating data: total revenues $ 8,496,401 $ 8,299,074 $ 8,073,855 $ 7,959,894 $ 7,688,024 operating income $ 1,477,205 $ 874,902 $ 941,859 $ 798,148 $ 403,110 net income $ 1,283,388 $ 665,783 $ 764,146 $ 473,692 $ 18,287 adjusted net income (1) (2) (3) $ 1,314,689 $ 1,065,066 $ 755,729 $ 539,224 $ 442,873 per share data basic: net income $ 5.96 $ 3.03 $ 3.45 $ 2.16 $ 0.08 adjusted net income $ 6.10 $ 4.85 $ 3.41 $ 2.46 $ 2.03 weighted-average shares 215,393 219,537 221,658 219,638 217,930 per share data diluted: net income $ 5.93 $ 3.02 $ 3.43 $ 2.14 $ 0.08 adjusted net income $ 6.08 $ 4.83 $ 3.39 $ 2.44 $ 2.02 weighted-average shares and potentially dilutive shares 216,316 220,689 223,044 220,941 219,457 dividends declared per common share $ 1.71 $ 1.35 $ 1.10 $ 0.74 $ 0.44 balance sheet data: total assets $ 22,310,324 $ 20,782,043 $ 20,524,060 $ 19,915,003 $ 19,670,401 total debt, including capital leases $ 9,387,436 $ 8,527,243 $ 8,254,818 $ 7,916,860 $ 8,332,418 common stock $ 2,346 $ 2,339 $ 2,331 $ 2,308 $ 2,291 total shareholders' equity $ 9,121,412 $ 8,063,039 $ 8,284,359 $ 8,808,265 $ 8,308,749 _______________________________________________________________________________ (1) for 2016, 2015 and 2014, refer to financial presentation and results of operations under item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for definition of adjusted net income and reconciliation of adjusted net income to net income. (2) amount for 2013 excludes restructuring and related impairment charges of $56.9 million and an $8.6 million loss related to the estimated impact of pullmantur's non-core businesses that were sold in 2014. (3) amount for 2012 excludes an impairment charge of $385.4 million , to write down pullmantur's goodwill to its implied fair value and to write down trademarks and trade names and certain long-lived assets, consisting of aircraft that was then owned and operated by pullmantur air, to their fair value, and a net deferred tax charge of $28.5 million . the net deferred tax charge includes a $33.7 million charge to record a 100% valuation allowance related to our deferred tax assets for pullmantur and a $5.2 million tax benefit to reduce the deferred tax liability related to pullmantur's trademarks and trade names. additionally, the amount for 2012 excludes a $10.7 million loss related to the estimated impact of pullmantur's non-core businesses that were sold in 2014. 36 table of contents item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations cautionary note concerning forward-looking statements the discussion under this caption "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and elsewhere in this document, including, for example, under the "risk factors" and "business" captions, includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. all statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance (including our expectations for the first quarter and full year of 2017 , our earnings and yield estimates for 2017 set forth under the heading "outlook" below and expectations regarding the timing and results of our double-double program), business and industry prospects or future results of operations or financial position, made in this annual report on form 10-k are forward-looking. words such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "goal," "intend," "may," "plan," "project," "seek," "should," "will," "driving" and similar expressions are intended to further identify any of these forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements reflect management's current expectations but they are based on judgments and are inherently uncertain. furthermore, they are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from the future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied in those forward-looking statements. examples of these risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this annual report on form 10-k and, in particular, the risks discussed under the caption "risk factors" in part i, item 1a of this report. all forward-looking statements made in this annual report on form 10-k speak only as of the date of this document. given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. overview the discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations have been organized to present the following: a review of our critical accounting policies and of our financial presentation, including discussion of certain operational and financial metrics we utilize to assist us in managing our business; a discussion of our results of operations for the year ended december 31, 2016 compared to the same period in 2015 and the year ended december 31, 2015 compared to the same period in 2014 ; a discussion of our business outlook, including our expectations for selected financial items for the first quarter and full year of 2017 ; and a discussion of our liquidity and capital resources, including our future capital and contractual commitments and potential funding sources. critical accounting policies our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america ("gaap"). (refer to note 1. general and note 2. summary of significant accounting policies to our consolidated financial statements under quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments and other general we are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and fuel prices. we manage these risks through a combination of our normal operating and financing activities and through the use of derivative financial instruments pursuant to our hedging practices and policies. the financial impact of these hedging instruments is primarily offset by corresponding changes in the underlying exposures being hedged. we achieve this by closely matching the amount, term and conditions of the derivative instrument with the underlying risk being hedged. although certain of our derivative financial instruments do not qualify or are not accounted for under hedge accounting, we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. we monitor our derivative positions using techniques including market valuations and sensitivity analyses. (refer to note 14. fair value measurements and derivative instruments to our consolidated financial statements underrisk factors 23 risk factors - conducting business globally may result in increased costs and other risks for a discussion of the risks associated with our international operations. cost efficiency, operating expenditures and adequate cash and liquidity in 2017, we continued our commitment to control our operating costs and will continue to do so in 2018. for example, we continue our initiatives to reduce energy consumption and, by extension, fuel costs. these include the design of more energy-efficient ships as well as the implementation of more efficient hardware, including improvements in operations and voyage planning as well as improvements to the propulsion, machinery, hvac and lighting systems. the overall impact of these efforts has resulted in an approximate 34% improvement in energy efficiency from 2005 through 2016 and we believe that our energy consumption per guest is currently the lowest in the cruise industry. in order to sustain our competitive advantage, we will continue to seek innovative technologies. we are focused on maintaining a strong liquidity position, reducing our debt and maintaining investment grade credit metrics. we believe these strategies enhance our ability to achieve our overall goal of maximizing our long-term shareholder value. fleet upgrade, maintenance and expansion we place a strong focus on innovation, which we seek to achieve by introducing new concepts on our new ships and continuously making improvements to our fleet. several of these innovations have become signature elements of our brands, such as the royal promenade (a boulevard with shopping, dining and entertainment venues) for the royal caribbean international brand and enhanced design features found on our solstice-class ships for the celebrity cruises brand. our upgrade and maintenance programs enable us to incorporate many of our latest signature innovations throughout the brand fleet and allow us to benefit from economies of scale by leveraging our suppliers. ensuring consistency across our fleet provides us with the flexibility to redeploy our ships among our brand portfolio. 7 table of contents we are committed to building state-of-the-art ships at a moderate growth rate and we believe our success in this area provides us with a competitive advantage. our newer vessels traditionally generate higher revenue yield premiums and are more efficient to operate than older vessels. our global brands have twelve ships expected to be delivered between 2018 and the end of 2024. these consist of two quantum-class ships, which are scheduled to enter service in the second quarter of 2019 and fourth quarter of 2020, respectively, two oasis-class ships, which are scheduled to enter service in the first quarter of 2018 and second quarter of 2021, respectively, four ships of a new generation for celebrity cruises, which are scheduled to enter service in the fourth quarter of 2018, the second quarter of 2020 and the fourth quarters of 2021 and 2022, respectively, a ship designed for the galapagos islands, which is scheduled to enter service in the second quarter of 2019, and two ships of a new generation for royal caribbean international, which are scheduled to enter service in the second quarters of 2022 and 2024, respectively. additionally, we entered into an agreement to purchase a ship for azamara club cruises that is scheduled to enter service in the third quarter of 2018. the addition of these ships is expected to increase passenger capacity of our global brands by approximately 42,900 berths by the end of 2024. additionally, tui cruises, our 50% joint venture, has agreements for the construction of two new ships, which are scheduled to enter service in the second quarter of 2018 and the first quarter of 2019, respectively, with an expected total capacity of approximately 5,700 berths. in addition, we regularly evaluate opportunities to order new ships, purchase existing ships or sell ships in our current fleet. in the current environment of high industry demand, we recently have placed new ship orders earlier than we have historically done as well as more aggressively sought to sell older capacity. markets and itineraries in an effort to penetrate untapped markets, diversify our consumer base and respond to changing economic and geopolitical market conditions, we continue to seek opportunities to optimally deploy ships to new and stronger markets and itineraries throughout the world. the portability of our ships allows us to readily deploy our ships to meet demand within our existing cruise markets. we make deployment decisions generally 12 to 18 months in advance, with the goal of optimizing the overall profitability of our portfolio. additionally, the infrastructure investments we have made to create a flexible global sourcing model has made our brands relevant in a number of markets around the world, which allows us to be opportunistic and source the highest yielding guests for our itineraries. our ships offer a wide selection of itineraries that call on approximately 540 destinations in 96 countries, spanning all seven continents. we are focused on obtaining the best possible long-term shareholder returns by operating in established markets while growing our presence in developing markets. new capacity allows us to expand into new markets and itineraries. our brands have expanded their mix of itineraries while strengthening our ability to further penetrate the asian and australian markets. additionally, in order to capitalize on the summer season in the southern hemisphere and mitigate the impact of the winter weather in the northern hemisphere, our brands have focused on deployment in the caribbean, asia and australia during that period. in an effort to secure desirable berthing facilities for our ships, and to provide new or enhanced cruise destinations for our guests, we actively assist or invest in the development or enhancement of certain port facilities and infrastructure, including mixed-use commercial properties, located in strategic ports of call. generally, we collaborate with local, private or governmental entities by providing management and/or financial assistance and often enter into long-term port usage arrangements. our participation in these efforts is generally accomplished via investments with the relevant government authority and/or various other strategic partnerships established to develop and/or operate the port facilities, by providing direct development and management expertise or in certain limited circumstances, by providing direct or indirect financial support. in exchange for our involvement, we generally secure preferential berthing rights for our ships. 8 table of contents technological capabilities the need to develop and use innovative technology is increasingly important. technology is a pervasive part of virtually every business process we use to support our strategic focus and provide a quality experience to our customers before, during and after their cruise. in the last few years, we introduced rfid wow bands on some of our ships to make many onboard processes easier and more comfortable for our guests. moreover, as the use of our various websites and social media platforms continue to increase along with the use of technology onboard our ships by both our guests and crew, we continually need to upgrade our systems, infrastructure and technologies to facilitate this growth. for instance, in 2017, we continued to advance our onboard technology in areas such as internet connectivity at sea, guest check-in and dining. additionally, we have introduced and continue to improve our mobile-friendly websites for our travel partners and direct customers and to invest in mobile apps that enhance the guest experience onboard our ships. cyber security and data privacy are a continued focus and we have made and will continue to make significant investments to protect our customer data, intellectual property and global operations. additionally, as we expand into new markets, we must ensure that we have the proper technology in place to support the market. for instance, our capabilities need to adapt to each of our markets' languages and regulations. as we expand our business, this has been an increased focus for us. travel agency support and consumer outreach travel agencies continue to be the primary source of ticket sales for our ships. we believe in the value of this distribution channel and invest heavily in maintaining strong relationships with our travel partners. to accomplish this goal, we seek to ensure that our commission rates and incentive structures remain competitive with the marketplace. we provide brand dedicated sales representatives who serve as advisors to our travel partners. we also provide trained customer service representatives, call centers and online training tools. in addition, we continue to operate our consumer outreach department, which provides consumers 24-hour access to our vacation planners and customer service agents in our call centers. in addition, we maintain and invest in our websites, including mobile applications and mobile websites, which allow guests to directly plan, book and customize their cruise, including the ability to add a variety of onboard amenities. we also have a robust onboard cruise sales department to help guests to book their next cruise vacations while onboard our ships. guest services we offer to handle virtually all travel aspects related to guest reservations and transportation, including arranging guest pre- and post-hotel stay arrangements and air transportation. royal caribbean international, celebrity cruises and azamara club cruises offer rewards to their guests through their loyalty programs, crown &amp; anchor society, captain's club and le club voyage, respectively, to encourage repeat business. crown &amp; anchor society has approximately 12.8 million members worldwide. captain's club and le club voyage have approximately 3.7 million members combined worldwide. members are recognized through increasing membership status by accumulating cruise points or credits, depending on the brand, which may be redeemed on future sailings. members are awarded points or credits in proportion to the number of cruise days and stateroom category. the loyalty programs provide certain tiers of membership benefits which entitle guests to upgraded experiences and rewards relative to the status achieved once the guests have accumulated the number of cruise points or credits specified for each tier. in addition, upon achieving a certain level of cruise points or credits, members benefit from reciprocal membership benefits across all of our loyalty programs. examples of the rewards available under our loyalty programs include, but are not limited to, priority ship embarkation, priority waitlist for shore excursions, complimentary laundry service, complimentary internet, booklets with onboard discount offers, upgraded bathroom amenities, private seating on the pool deck, ship tours and, in the case of our most loyal guests who have achieved the highest levels of cruise points or credits, complimentary cruise days. we regularly work to enhance each of our loyalty programs by adding 9 table of contents new features and amenities in order to reward our repeat guests. operations cruise ships and itineraries as of december 31, 2017 , our global brands and partner brands collectively operated 49 ships with a selection of worldwide itineraries ranging from two to 23 nights that call on approximately 540 destinations. the following table presents summary information concerning the ships we expect to operate in 2018 under our global brands and partner brands and their geographic areas of operation based on current 2018 itineraries (subject to change). ship year ship built year ship entered/will enter service (1) approximate berths primary areas of operation royal caribbean international symphony of the seas 2018 2018 5,450 mediterranean, eastern/western caribbean harmony of the seas 2016 2016 5,450 eastern/western caribbean ovation of the seas 2016 2016 4,100 eastern asia, australia/new zealand anthem of the seas 2015 2015 4,150 bermuda, canada, eastern/southern caribbean quantum of the seas 2014 2014 4,150 eastern asia allure of the seas 2010 2010 5,450 eastern/western caribbean oasis of the seas 2009 2009 5,450 eastern/western caribbean independence of the seas 2008 2008 3,600 northern europe, mediterranean, western caribbean liberty of the seas 2007 2007 3,750 western caribbean freedom of the seas 2006 2006 3,750 eastern/western caribbean, mediterranean jewel of the seas 2004 2004 2,150 mediterranean, southern caribbean mariner of the seas 2003 2003 3,100 eastern asia, bahamas serenade of the seas 2003 2003 2,100 eastern/southern caribbean, northern europe, canada, bermuda navigator of the seas 2002 2002 3,250 northern europe, southern/western caribbean, mediterranean brilliance of the seas 2002 2002 2,100 northern europe, western caribbean adventure of the seas 2001 2001 3,200 eastern/western/southern caribbean, canada radiance of the seas 2001 2001 2,100 alaska, australia/new zealand explorer of the seas 2000 2000 3,250 alaska, australia/new zealand voyager of the seas 1999 1999 3,250 eastern asia, australia/new zealand vision of the seas 1998 1998 2,000 mediterranean, western caribbean enchantment of the seas 1997 1997 2,250 bahamas rhapsody of the seas 1997 1997 2,000 mediterranean, western caribbean grandeur of the seas 1996 1996 1,950 southern caribbean, bermuda, canada, bahamas majesty of the seas 1992 1992 2,350 bahamas, cuba, western caribbean empress of the seas 1990 2016 1,550 bahamas, cuba, western caribbean 10 table of contents ship year ship built year ship entered/will enter service (1) approximate berths primary areas of operation celebrity cruises celebrity edge 2018 2018 2,900 eastern/western caribbean celebrity reflection 2012 2012 3,000 mediterranean, eastern/western/southern caribbean celebrity silhouette 2011 2011 2,850 northern europe, mediterranean, eastern/western/southern caribbean celebrity eclipse 2010 2010 2,850 northern europe, mediterranean, southern caribbean, south america celebrity equinox 2009 2009 2,850 eastern/western/southern caribbean celebrity solstice 2008 2008 2,850 alaska, australia/new zealand celebrity xploration 2007 2016 20 galapagos islands celebrity constellation 2002 2002 2,150 mediterranean, middle east, southeast asia celebrity summit 2001 2001 2,150 southern caribbean, bermuda, canada celebrity infinity 2001 2001 2,150 south america, alaska, western caribbean, bahamas celebrity xpedition 2001 2004 100 galapagos islands celebrity millennium 2000 2000 2,150 alaska, southeastern/eastern asia celebrity xperience 1982 2016 50 galapagos islands azamara club cruises azamara quest 2000 2007 700 mediterranean, eastern/western/southern caribbean, latin america, middle east, australia, asia azamara journey 2000 2007 700 southeastern asia, eastern asia, australia/new zealand, mediterranean, northern europe, cuba azamara pursuit 2001 2018 700 mediterranean, northern europe, south america pullmantur zenith 1992 2014 1,400 mediterranean, northern europe, eastern caribbean monarch 1991 2013 2,350 eastern/southern caribbean horizon 1990 2010 1,400 mediterranean, middle east sovereign 1988 2008 2,300 mediterranean, brazil tui cruises mein schiff 1 (2) 2018 2018 2,850 southeastern asia, middle east, mediterranean mein schiff 6 2017 2017 2,500 north/south/central america, mediterranean mein schiff 5 2016 2016 2,500 southern caribbean, mediterranean, dubai, northern europe mein schiff 4 2015 2015 2,500 northern europe, mediterranean, dubai mein schiff 3 2014 2014 2,500 northern europe, eastern/southern caribbean, mediterranean, southeast asia mein schiff 2 1997 2011 1,900 mediterranean skysea cruises skysea golden era 1995 2015 1,800 eastern asia total 134,070 11 table of contents __________________________________________________________________ (1) the year a ship entered service refers to the year in which the ship commenced or is expected to commence cruise revenue operations for the brand. (2) tui cruises' newbuild scheduled for delivery in 2018 will enter service as mein schiff 1 and the existing mein schiff 1 , not included above, is planned for transfer to an affiliate of tui ag, our joint venture partner in tui cruises. our global brands and our partner brands have thirteen ships on order. two ships on order are being built in germany by meyer werft gmbh, four are being built in finland by meyer turku shipyard, six are being built in france by stx france and one is being built in the netherlands by de hoop lobith. the expected dates that the ships on order will enter service and their approximate berths are as follows: ship expected to enter service approximate berths royal caribbean international oasis-class: symphony of the seas 1st quarter 2018 5,450 unnamed 2nd quarter 2021 5,450 quantum-class: spectrum of the seas 2nd quarter 2019 4,150 unnamed 4th quarter 2020 4,150 icon-class: unnamed 2nd quarter 2022 5,650 unnamed 2nd quarter 2024 5,650 celebrity cruises edge-class: celebrity edge 4th quarter 2018 2,900 celebrity beyond 2nd quarter 2020 2,900 unnamed 4th quarter 2021 2,900 unnamed 4th quarter 2022 2,900 celebrity flora 2nd quarter 2019 100 tui cruises (50% joint venture) (1) mein schiff 1 2nd quarter 2018 2,850 unnamed 1st quarter 2019 2,850 total berths 47,900 ___________________________________________________________________ (1) tui cruises plans to offset this additional capacity through the planned transfer of their existing, oldest ships, mein schiff 1 and mein schiff 2, in 2018 and 2019, respectively, to an affiliate of tui ag, our joint venture partner in tui cruises. in september 2017, we entered into an agreement to purchase a 700 berth ship for our azamara club cruises brand that is scheduled to be delivered in march 2018 and expected to enter service during the third quarter of 2018. seasonality our revenues are seasonal based on the demand for cruises. demand is strongest for cruises during the northern hemisphere's summer months and holidays. in order to mitigate the impact of the winter weather in the northern hemisphere and to capitalize on the summer season in the southern hemisphere, our brands have focused on deployment in the caribbean, asia and australia during that period. 12 table of contents passengers and capacity selected statistical information is shown in the following table (see financial presentation - description of certain line items and selected operational and financial metrics under item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , for definitions): year ended december 31, 2017 2016 (1) 2015 2014 2013 passengers carried 5,768,496 5,754,747 5,401,899 5,149,952 4,884,763 passenger cruise days 40,033,527 40,250,557 38,523,060 36,710,966 35,561,772 available passenger cruise days (apcd) 36,930,939 37,844,644 36,646,639 34,773,915 33,974,852 occupancy 108.4% 106.4% 105.1% 105.6% 104.7% ___________________________________________________________________ (1) does not include november and december 2015 amounts for pullmantur as the net pullmantur result for those months was included within other expense in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss) for the year ended december 31, 2016, as a result of the elimination of the pullmantur reporting lag, and did not affect gross yields, net yields, gross cruise costs, net cruise costs and net cruise costs excluding fuel. additionally, effective august 2016, we no longer include pullmantur holdings in these amounts. cruise pricing our cruise ticket prices include accommodations and a wide variety of activities and amenities, including meals and entertainment. prices vary depending on many factors including the destination, cruise length, stateroom category selected and the time of year the cruise takes place. although we grant credit terms in select markets mainly outside of the united states, our payment terms generally require an upfront deposit to confirm a reservation, with the balance due prior to the sailing. our cruises are generally available for sale at least one year in advance and often as much as two years in advance of sailing. during the selling period of a cruise, we continually monitor and adjust our cruise ticket prices for available guest staterooms based on demand, with the objective of maximizing net yields. in early 2015, in an effort to preserve the integrity of our cruise pricing, we implemented a new policy against introducing incremental discounting on our ticket prices in certain markets within 30 days of the sailing date. we continue to follow this policy. as we grow our business globally, our sale arrangements with travel agents may vary. for instance, our sale arrangements in the mainland chinese market are primarily composed of travel agent charter and group sales with full payment due close-in to sailing, and to a lesser extent, retail agency and direct sales. we have developed and implemented enhancements to our reservations system that provide us and our travel partners with additional capabilities. the enhancements also allow us to better understand and react to the current demand and pricing environment and implement a variety of promotions. we offer air transportation to our guests through our air transportation program available in major cities around the world. generally, air tickets are sold to guests at prices close to cost which vary by gateway and destination. passenger ticket revenues accounted for approximately 72% , 72% and 73% of total revenues in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. onboard activities and other revenues our cruise brands offer modern fleets with a wide array of onboard services, amenities and activities which vary by brand and ship. while many onboard activities are included in the base price of a cruise, we realize additional revenues from, among other things, gaming, the sale of alcoholic and other beverages, internet and other telecommunication services, gift shop items, shore excursions, photography, spa/salon and fitness services, art auctions, 13 table of contents retail shops and a wide variety of specialty restaurants and dining options. many of these services are available for pre-booking prior to embarkation. these activities are provided either directly by us or by independent concessionaires from which we receive a percentage of their revenues. in conjunction with our cruise vacations, we offer pre- and post-cruise hotel packages to our royal caribbean international, celebrity cruises and azamara club cruises guests. we also offer cruise vacation protection coverage to guests in a number of markets, which provides guests with coverage for trip cancellation, medical protection and baggage protection. onboard and other revenues accounted for approximately 28% , 28% and 27% of total revenues in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. segment reporting we operate three wholly-owned cruise brands, royal caribbean international, celebrity cruises and azamara club cruises. in addition, we have a 50% investment in a joint venture with tui ag which operates the german brand tui cruises, a 49% interest in the spanish brand pullmantur and have a 36% interest in the chinese brand skysea cruises. we believe our brands possess the versatility to enter multiple cruise market segments within the cruise vacation industry. although each of our brands has its own marketing style as well as ships and crews of various sizes, the nature of the products sold and services delivered by our brands share a common base (i.e., the sale and provision of cruise vacations). our brands also have similar itineraries as well as similar cost and revenue components. in addition, our brands source passengers from similar markets around the world and operate in similar economic environments with a significant degree of commercial overlap. as a result, our brands have been aggregated as a single reportable segment based on the similarity of their economic characteristics, types of consumers, regulatory environment, maintenance requirements, supporting systems and processes as well as products and services provided. our chairman and chief executive officer has been identified as the chief operating decision-maker and all significant operating decisions including the allocation of resources are based upon the analyses of the company as one segment. ( for financial information see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data .) employees as of december 31, 2017 , our global brands employed approximately 66,000 employees, including 60,000 shipboard employees as well as 6,000 full-time and 100 part-time employees in our shoreside operations. as of december 31, 2017 , approximately 85% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. insurance we maintain insurance on the hull and machinery of our ships, with insured values generally equal to the net book value of each ship. this coverage is maintained with reputable insurance underwriters from the british, scandinavian, french, united states and other reputable international insurance markets. we are members of three protection and indemnity ("p&amp;i") clubs, which are part of a worldwide group of 13 p&amp;i clubs, known as the international group of p&amp;i clubs (the ig ). liabilities, costs and expenses for illness and injury to crew, guest injury, pollution and other third-party claims in connection with our cruise activities are covered by our p&amp;i clubs, subject to the clubs' rules and the limits of coverage determined by the ig. p&amp;i coverage provided by the clubs is on a mutual basis and we are subject to additional premium calls in the event of a catastrophic loss incurred by any member of the 13 p&amp;i clubs, whereby the reinsurance limits purchased by the ig are exhausted. we are also subject to additional premium calls based on investment and underwriting shortfalls experienced by our own individual insurers. we maintain war risk insurance for legal liability to crew, guests and other third parties as well as for loss or damage to our vessels arising from acts of war, including invasion, insurrection, terrorism, rebellion, piracy and hijacking. our primary war risk coverage is provided by a norwegian war risk insurance association and our excess war risk insurance is provided by our three p&amp;i clubs. consistent with most marine war risk policies, our coverage is subject to cancellation in the event of a change in risk. in the event of a war between major powers, our primary policies 14 table of contents terminate after thirty days' notice and our excess policies terminate immediately. our excess policies are also subject to cancellation after a notice period of seven days in the event of other changes in risk. these notice periods allow for premiums to be renegotiated based on changes in risk. insurance coverage for shoreside property and casualty exposures, shipboard inventory, off-vessel liability, directors and officers and other risks are maintained with various global insurance companies. we do not carry business interruption insurance for our ships based on our evaluation of the risks involved and protective measures already in place, as compared to the cost of insurance. all insurance coverage is subject to certain limitations, exclusions and deductible levels. in addition, in certain circumstances, we either self-insure or co-insure a portion of these risks. premiums charged by insurance carriers, including carriers in the maritime insurance industry, increase or decrease from time to time and tend to be cyclical in nature. these cycles are impacted both by our own loss experience and by losses incurred in direct and reinsurance markets. we historically have been able to obtain insurance coverage in amounts and at premiums we have deemed to be commercially acceptable. no assurance can be given that affordable and secure insurance markets will be available to us in the future, particularly for war risk insurance. trademarks we own a number of registered trademarks related to the royal caribbean international, celebrity cruises and azamara club cruises cruise brands. the registered trademarks include the name royal caribbean international and its crown and anchor logo, the name celebrity cruises and its x logo, the name azamara club cruises and its globe with an a logo, and the names of various cruise ships, as well as loyalty program names and other marketing programs. we believe our largest brands' trademarks are widely recognized throughout the world and have considerable value. the duration of trademark registrations varies from country to country. however, trademarks are generally valid and may be renewed indefinitely as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained. regulation our ships are regulated by various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties in force in the jurisdictions in which they operate. in addition, our ships are registered in the bahamas, malta or in the case of our ships operating in the galapagos islands, ecuador. each ship is subject to regulations issued by its country of registry, including regulations issued pursuant to international treaties governing the safety of our ships, guests and crew as well as environmental protection. each country of registry conducts periodic inspections to verify compliance with these regulations as discussed more fully below. ships operating out of ports of call around the world are also subject to inspection by the maritime authorities of that country for compliance with international treaties and local regulations. additionally, ships operating out of the united states ports are subject to inspection by the united states coast guard for compliance with international treaties and by the united states public health service for sanitary and health conditions. our ships are also subject to similar inspections pursuant to the laws and regulations of various other countries our ships visit. we believe that we are in material compliance with all the regulations applicable to our ships and that we have all licenses necessary to conduct our business. health, safety, security, environmental and financial responsibility issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant government authorities in the united states and internationally. from time to time, various regulatory and legislative changes may be proposed that could impact our operations and subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. safety and security regulations our ships are required to comply with international safety standards defined in the international convention for safety of life at sea ( solas ), which, among other things, establishes requirements for ship design, structural features, materials, construction, lifesaving equipment and safe management and operation of ships to ensure guest 15 table of contents and crew safety. the solas standards are revised from time to time and changes are incorporated into the operation of our ships. compliance with these modified standards have not historically had a material effect on our operating costs. solas incorporates the international safety management code ( ism code ), which provides an international standard for the safe management and operation of ships and for pollution prevention. the ism code is mandatory for all vessels, including passenger vessel operators. all of our operations and ships are regularly audited by various national authorities and maintain the required certificates of compliance with the ism code. our ships are subject to various security requirements, including the international ship and port facility security code ( isps code ), which is part of solas, and the u.s. maritime transportation security act of 2002 ( mtsa ), which applies to ships that operate in u.s. ports. in order to satisfy these security requirements, we implement security measures, conduct vessel security assessments, and develop security plans. the security plans for all of our ships have been submitted to and approved by the respective countries of registry for our ships in compliance with the isps code and the mtsa. the cruise vessel security and safety act of 2010, which applies to passenger vessels which embark or include port stops within the united states, requires the implementation of certain safety design features as well as the establishment of practices for the reporting of and dealing with allegations of crime. the cruise industry supported this legislation and we believe that our internal standards are generally as strict or stricter than the law requires. a few provisions of the law call for regulations which have not yet been finalized; however, based on proposed regulations issued by the u.s. coast guard in january 2015, we do not expect any material costs due to implementing these regulations. environmental regulations we are subject to various international and national laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. under such laws and regulations, we are generally prohibited from discharging materials other than food waste into the waterways. we have made, and will continue to make, capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations. from time to time, environmental and other regulators consider more stringent regulations, which may affect our operations and increase our compliance costs. we believe that the impact of ships on the global environment will continue to be an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world and, accordingly, may subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future, including the items described below. our ships are subject to the international maritime organization's ( imo'') regulations under the international convention for the prevention of pollution from ships (the marpol regulations'') and the international convention for the control and management of ships ballast water and sediments (ballast water management convention), which includes requirements designed to minimize pollution by oil, sewage, garbage, air emissions and the transfer of non-native/non-indigenous species. we have obtained the relevant international compliance certificates relating to oil, sewage, air pollution prevention and ballast water for all of our ships. the marpol regulations impose global limitations on the sulfur content of emissions emitted by ships operating worldwide to 3.5%. the marpol regulations also establish special emission control areas ( ecas'') with stringent limitations on sulfur emissions in these areas. there are four established ecas that restrict sulfur emissions: the baltic sea, the north sea/english channel, certain waters surrounding the north american coast, and the waters surrounding puerto rico and the u.s. virgin islands (the caribbean eca ). ships operating in these sulfur ecas have been required to reduce their emissions sulfur content from 1.0% to 0.1%. this reduction has not had a significant impact on our results of operations to date largely due to a number of mitigating steps we have taken over the last several years, including equipping all of our new ships delivered during or after 2014 with advanced emissions purification ("aep") systems covering all engines and actively developing and testing aep systems on the majority of our remaining fleet. 16 table of contents we continue to implement our aep system strategy both for our ships on order and for the majority of the ships on our fleet. as our new ships are delivered, they will provide us with additional operational and deployment flexibility. prior to 2017, we had in place exemptions for 19 of our ships which applied while they were sailing in the north american and caribbean ecas. these exemptions delay the requirement to comply with the additional sulfur content reduction pending our continued development and deployment of aep systems on these ships. by the end of 2017, we completed deployment of the aep system or systems on 17 of the 19 ships covered by the exemptions. we believe that the learning from our existing endeavors as well as our further efforts with regards to this technology will allow us to implement an effective aep system retrofit strategy for our fleet. by january 1, 2020, the marpol regulations will require the worldwide limitations on sulfur content on emissions to be reduced from 3.5% to 0.5%. as this regulation is implemented worldwide and if our mitigation strategies are ineffective, including our aep system retrofit strategy, our fuel costs could increase significantly. all new ships that began construction after january 1, 2016 are required to meet more stringent nitrogen oxide emission limits when operating within the north american and u.s. caribbean sea eca. we have been in the process of evaluating a number of technological alternatives over the last several years to address these new requirements and believe that we will be able to comply with these limits without a significant impact to our operations or fuel costs. effective july 1, 2015, the european commission adopted legislation that requires cruise ship operators with ships visiting ports in the european union to monitor and report on the ship's annual carbon dioxide emissions starting in 2018. additionally, in 2019, the imo's monitoring and reporting system (imo data and collection system), which is applicable to all ship itineraries, will enter into force. while we do not expect compliance with either of these regulations to materially impact our costs or results of operations, the adopting legislations both present the new monitoring and reporting requirements as the first step of a staged approach which could ultimately result in additional costs or charges associated with carbon dioxide emissions. effective september 8, 2017, the imo ballast water management convention requires ships that carry and discharge ballast water to meet specific discharge standards by installing ballast water treatment systems within the next five years. we do not expect compliance with this regulation to have a material effect on our results of operations. consumer financial responsibility regulations we are required to obtain certificates from the united states federal maritime commission relating to our ability to satisfy liability in cases of non-performance of obligations to guests, as well as casualty and personal injury. as a condition to obtaining the required certificates, we arrange through our insurers for the provision of surety for our ship-operating companies. the required surety amount is currently $30.0 million per operator and is subject to additional consumer price index based adjustments. we are also required by the united kingdom, norway, finland, and the baltics to establish our financial responsibility for any liability resulting from the non-performance of our obligations to guests from these jurisdictions. in the united kingdom we are currently required by the association of british travel agents to provide performance bonds totaling approximately 44 million . the norwegian travel guarantee fund requires us to maintain performance bonds in varying amounts during the course of the year to cover our financial responsibility in norway, finland and the baltics. these amounts ranged from nok 39 million to nok 100 million during 2017 . certain other jurisdictions also require that we establish financial responsibility to our guests resulting from the non-performance of our obligations; however, the related amounts do not have a material effect on our costs. regulations regarding protection of disabled persons in june 2013, the u.s. architectural and transportation barriers compliance board proposed guidelines for the construction and alteration of passenger vessels to ensure that the vessels are readily accessible to and usable by passengers with disabilities. once finalized, these guidelines will be used by the u.s. department of transportation 17 table of contents and u.s. department of justice to implement mandatory and enforceable standards for passenger vessels covered by the americans with disabilities act. while we believe our vessels have been designed and outfitted to meet the needs of our guests with disabilities, we cannot at this time accurately predict whether we will be required to make material modifications or incur significant additional expenses given the uncertainty of the proposed guidelines. taxation of the company the following is a summary of our principal taxes, exemptions and special regimes. in addition to or instead of income taxation, virtually all jurisdictions where our ships call impose some tax or fee, or both, based on guest headcount, tonnage or some other measure. our consolidated operations are primarily foreign corporations engaged in the owning and operating of passenger cruise ships in international transportation. u.s. income taxation the following is a discussion of the application of the u.s. federal and state income tax laws to us and is based on the current provisions of the u.s. internal revenue code, treasury department regulations, administrative rulings, court decisions and the relevant state tax laws, regulations, rulings and court decisions of the states where we have business operations. all of the foregoing is subject to change, and any such change could affect the accuracy of this discussion. application of section 883 of the internal revenue code we and celebrity cruises, inc. are engaged in a trade or business in the united states, and many of our ship-owning subsidiaries, depending upon the itineraries of their ships, receive income from sources within the united states. additionally, our united kingdom tonnage tax company is a ship-operating company classified as a disregarded entity for u.s. federal income tax purposes that may earn u.s. source income. under section 883 of the internal revenue code, certain foreign corporations may exclude from gross income (and effectively from branch profits tax as such earnings do not give rise to effectively connected earnings and profits) u.s. source income derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, including income from the leasing of such ships. a foreign corporation will qualify for the benefits of section 883 if, in relevant part: (1) the foreign country in which the foreign corporation is organized grants an equivalent exemption to corporations organized in the united states; and (2) the stock of the corporation (or the direct or indirect corporate parent thereof) is primarily and regularly traded on an established securities market in the united states. in the opinion of our u.s. tax counsel, drinker biddle &amp; reath llp, based on the representations and assumptions set forth in that opinion, we, celebrity cruises inc. and our ship-owning subsidiaries with u.s. source shipping income qualify for the benefits of section 883 because we and each of those subsidiaries are incorporated in liberia, which is a qualifying country, and our common stock is primarily and regularly traded on an established securities market in the united states (i.e., we are a "publicly traded" corporation). if, in the future, (1) liberia no longer qualifies as an equivalent exemption jurisdiction, and we do not reincorporate in a jurisdiction that does qualify for the exemption, or (2) we fail to qualify as a publicly traded corporation, we and all of our ship-owning or operating subsidiaries that rely on section 883 to exclude qualifying income from gross income would be subject to u.s. federal income tax on their u.s. source shipping income and income from activities incidental thereto. we believe that most of our income and the income of our ship-owning subsidiaries, including our u.k. tonnage tax company which is considered a division for u.s. tax purposes, is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships and, therefore, is exempt from taxation under section 883. regulations under section 883 list activities that are not considered by the internal revenue service to be incidental to the international operation of ships including the sale of air and land transportation, shore excursions and pre- and post-cruise tours. our income from these activities that is earned from sources within the united states will be subject 18 table of contents to u.s. taxation. taxation in the absence of an exemption under section 883 if we, the operator of our vessels, celebrity cruises inc., or our ship-owning subsidiaries were to fail to meet the requirements of section 883 of the internal revenue code, or if the provision was repealed, then, as explained below, such companies would be subject to u.s. income taxation on a portion of their income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships. because we and celebrity cruises inc. conduct a trade or business in the united states, we and celebrity cruises inc. would be taxable at regular corporate rates on our separate company taxable income (i.e., without regard to the income of our ship-owning subsidiaries) on income which is effectively connected with our u.s. trade or business (generally only income from u.s. sources). in addition, if any of our earnings and profits effectively connected with our u.s. trade or business were withdrawn, or were deemed to have been withdrawn, from our u.s. trade or business, those withdrawn amounts would be subject to a branch profits tax at the rate of 30%. we and celebrity cruises inc. would also be potentially subject to tax on portions of certain interest paid by us at rates of up to 30%. if section 883 were not available to our ship-owning subsidiaries, each such subsidiary would be subject to a special 4% tax on its u.s. source gross transportation income, if any, each year because it does not have a fixed place of business in the united states and its income is derived from the leasing of a ship. other united states taxation we and celebrity cruises, inc. earn u.s. source income from activities not considered incidental to international shipping. the tax on such income is not material to our results of operation for all years presented. state taxation we, celebrity cruises inc. and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to various u.s. state income taxes which are generally imposed on each state's portion of the u.s. source income subject to federal income taxes. additionally, the state of alaska subjects an allocated portion of the total income of companies doing business in alaska and certain other affiliated companies to alaska corporate state income taxes and also imposes a 33% tax on adjusted gross income from onboard gambling activities conducted in alaska waters. this did not have a material impact to our results of operations for all years presented. 2017 tax cuts and jobs act on december 22, 2017, the tax cuts and jobs act was signed into law. among other things, the new legislation reduces the federal corporate income tax rate to 21% from 35%, resulting in an immaterial benefit related to the reduction of our u.s. deferred tax liability. although there are a number of provisions which apply to us, we do not expect any material impact to our overall tax expense as a result of the legislation. maltese and spanish income taxation effective july 31, 2016, we sold 51% of our interest in pullmantur holdings. we account for our retained investment under the equity method of accounting. there was no tax impact to us as a result of this sale transaction. the surviving pullmantur company continues to be subject to the tax laws of spain and malta. under the sale agreement, we remain responsible for pre-sale tax matters with respect to years that are still open under the statute of limitations. united kingdom income taxation we operate fifteen ships under companies which have elected to be subject to the united kingdom tonnage tax 19 table of contents regime ( u.k. tonnage tax ). companies subject to u.k. tonnage tax pay a corporate tax on a notional profit determined with reference to the net tonnage of qualifying vessels. the requirements for a company to qualify for the u.k. tonnage tax regime include being subject to u.k. corporate income tax, operating qualifying ships, which are strategically and commercially managed in the united kingdom, and fulfilling a seafarer training requirement. relevant shipping profits include income from the operation of qualifying ships and from shipping related activities. our u.k. income from non-shipping activities which do not qualify under the u.k. tonnage tax regime and which are not considered significant, remain subject to u.k. corporate income tax. brazilian income taxation previously, pullmantur and our u.k. tonnage tax company chartered certain ships to brazilian subsidiary companies for operations in brazil. both pullmantur and royal caribbean international ceased charters to brazil in january 2016 and march 2016, respectively. while brazilian charters took place, the brazilian subsidiaries' earnings were subject to brazilian taxation which was not considered significant. the charter payments made to the u.k. tonnage tax company and to pullmantur were exempt from brazilian income tax under brazilian domestic law. additionally, remittances of revenue from sales of certain cruises in the brazilian market are subject to taxation. chinese taxation our u.k. tonnage tax company operates ships in international transportation in china. the income earned from this operation is exempt from taxation in china under the u.k./china double tax treaty and other circulars addressing indirect taxes. changes to or failure to qualify for the treaty or circular could cause us to lose the benefits provided which would have a material impact on our results of operations. our chinese income from non-shipping activities or from shipping activities not qualifying for treaty or circular protection and which are considered insignificant, remain subject to chinese taxation. other taxation we and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to value-added and other indirect taxes most of which are reclaimable, zero-rated or exempt. website access to reports we make available, free of charge, access to our annual reports, all quarterly and current reports and all amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission through our website at www.rclcorporate.com . the information contained on our website is not a part of any of these reports and is not incorporated by reference herein. 20 table of contents executive officers of the company as of february 20, 2018 , our executive officers are: name age position richard d. fain 70 chairman, chief executive officer and director jason t. liberty 42 executive vice president, chief financial officer adam m. goldstein 58 president and chief operating officer michael w. bayley 59 president and chief executive officer, royal caribbean international lisa lutoff-perlo 60 president and chief executive officer, celebrity cruises lawrence pimentel 66 president and chief executive officer, azamara club cruises harri u. kulovaara 65 executive vice president, maritime bradley h. stein 62 senior vice president, general counsel, chief compliance officer henry l. pujol 50 senior vice president, chief accounting officer richard d. fain has served as a director since 1981 and as our chairman and chief executive officer since 1988. mr. fain is a recognized industry leader, having participated in shipping for over 40 years and having held a number of prominent industry positions, such as chairman of the cruise lines international association (clia), the largest cruise industry trade association. he currently serves as chairman of the university of miami board of trustees as well as on the national board of the posse foundation. he is also former chairman of the miami business forum, the greater miami convention and visitors bureau, and the united way of miami-dade. jason t. liberty has been employed by the company since 2005 and has served as chief financial officer since may 2013. mr. liberty previously served as senior vice president, strategy and finance from september 2012 through may 2013, overseeing the company's corporate and strategic planning, treasury, investor relations and deployment functions. prior to this, mr. liberty served, from 2010 through 2012, as vice president of corporate and revenue planning and, from 2008 to 2010, as vice president of corporate and strategic planning. before joining royal caribbean, mr. liberty was a senior manager at the international public accounting firm of kpmg llp. adam m. goldstein has served as president and chief operating officer since april 2014. prior to this, he served as president of royal caribbean international since february 2005 and as its president and chief executive officer since september 2007. mr. goldstein has been employed with royal caribbean since 1988 in a variety of positions, including executive vice president, brand operations of royal caribbean international, senior vice president, total guest satisfaction and senior vice president, marketing. mr. goldstein served as national chair of the united states travel association (formerly, travel industry association of america) in 2001 and as chairman of clia in 2015 and 2016. mr. goldstein began a two-year term as chairman of the florida-caribbean cruise association (fcca) in january 2017. michael w. bayley has served as president and chief executive officer of royal caribbean international since december 2014. prior to this, he served as president and chief executive officer of celebrity cruises since august 2012. mr. bayley has been employed by royal caribbean for over 30 years, having started as an assistant purser onboard one of the company's ships. he has served in a number of roles including as executive vice president, operations from february 2012 until august 2012. other positions mr. bayley has held include executive vice president, international from may 2010 until february 2012; senior vice president, international from december 2007 to may 2010; senior vice president, hotel operations for royal caribbean international; and chairman and managing director of island cruises. lisa lutoff-perlo has served as president and chief executive officer of celebrity cruises since december 2014. prior to this, she served as executive vice president, operations for royal caribbean international from september 2012 to december 2014, where she was responsible for all of royal caribbean international's hotel, marine and port operations. ms. lutoff-perlo has been employed with the company since 1985 in a variety of positions within both 21 table of contents celebrity cruises and royal caribbean international. she started at royal caribbean international as district sales manager for new england and from august 2008 to august 2012 she was responsible for celebrity cruises' hotel operation. lawrence pimentel has served as president and chief executive officer of azamara club cruises since july 2009. from 2001 until january 2009, mr. pimentel was president, chief executive officer, director and co-owner of seadream yacht club, a privately held luxury cruise line located in miami, florida with two yacht-style ships that sailed primarily in the caribbean and mediterranean. from april 1991 to february 2001, mr. pimentel was president and chief executive officer of carnival corp.'s seabourn cruise line and from may 1998 to february 2001, he was president and chief executive officer of carnival corp.'s cunard line. harri u. kulovaara has served as executive vice president, maritime since january 2005. mr. kulovaara is responsible for fleet design and newbuild operations. mr. kulovaara also chairs our maritime safety advisory board. mr. kulovaara has been employed with royal caribbean since 1995 in a variety of positions, including senior vice president, marine operations, and senior vice president, quality assurance. mr. kulovaara is a naval architect and engineer. bradley h. stein has served as general counsel and corporate secretary of the company since 2006. he has also served as senior vice president and chief compliance officer of the company since february 2009 and february 2011, respectively. mr. stein has been with royal caribbean since 1992. before joining royal caribbean, mr. stein worked in private practice in new york and miami. henry l. pujol has served as senior vice president, chief accounting officer of the company since may 2013. mr. pujol originally joined royal caribbean in 2004 as assistant controller and was promoted to corporate controller in may 2007. before joining royal caribbean, mr. pujol was a senior manager at the international public accounting firm of kpmg llp. 22 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k are important factors that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historical results. it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks. there may be additional risks that we consider not to be material, or which are not known, and any of these risks could have the effects set forth below. the ordering of the risk factors set forth below is not intended to reflect any company indication of priority or likelihood. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for a cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements. adverse worldwide economic or other conditions could reduce the demand for cruises and passenger spending, adversely impacting our operating results, cash flows and financial condition including potentially impairing the value of our ships and other assets. the demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic conditions. weak or uncertain economic conditions impact consumer confidence and pose a risk as vacationers may postpone or reduce discretionary spending. this, in turn, may result in cruise booking slowdowns, decreased cruise prices and lower onboard revenues. given the global nature of our business, we are exposed to many different economies and our business could be hurt by challenging conditions in any of our markets. any significant deterioration of international, national or local economic conditions could result in a prolonged period of booking slowdowns, depressed cruise prices and reduced onboard revenues. fears of terrorist attacks, war, and other hostilities could have a negative impact on our results of operations. events such as terrorist attacks, war (or war-like conditions), conflicts (domestic or cross-border), civil unrest and other hostilities, including an escalation in the frequency or severity of incidents, and the resulting political instability, travel restrictions and advisories, and concerns over safety and security aspects of traveling or the fear of any of the foregoing have had, and could have in the future, a significant adverse impact on demand and pricing in the travel and vacation industry. in view of our global operations, we are susceptible to a wide range of adverse events. these events could also result in additional security measures taken by local authorities which may potentially impact access to ports and/or destinations. our operating costs could increase due to market forces and economic or geo-political factors beyond our control. our operating costs, including fuel, food, payroll and benefits, airfare, taxes, insurance and security costs, are all subject to increases due to market forces and economic or geo-political conditions or other factors beyond our control. increases in these operating costs could adversely affect our profitability. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, fuel prices and interest rates could affect our financial results. we are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, fuel prices and interest rates. significant changes in any of the foregoing could have a material impact on our financial results, net of the impact of our hedging activities and natural offsets. our operating results have been and will continue to be impacted, often significantly, by changes in each of these factors. the value of our earnings in foreign currencies is adversely impacted by a strong united states dollar. in addition, any significant increase in fuel prices could materially and adversely affect our business as fuel prices not only impact our fuel costs, but also some of our other expenses, such as crew travel, freight and commodity prices. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for more information. conducting business globally may result in increased costs and other risks. we operate our business globally. operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including increased exposure to a wider range of regional and local economic conditions, volatile local political conditions, potential 23 table of contents changes in duties and taxes, including changing and/or uncertain interpretations of existing tax laws and regulations, required compliance with additional laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses or governing the operations of foreign-based companies, currency fluctuations, interest rate movements, difficulties in operating under local business environments, port quality and availability in certain regions, u.s. and global anti-bribery laws or regulations, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings. our future growth strategies increasingly depend on the growth and sustained profitability of certain international markets, such as china. some factors that will be critical to our success in developing these markets may be different than those affecting our more-established north american and european markets. in the chinese market, in particular, our future success depends on our ability to continue to raise awareness of our products, evolve the available distribution channels and adapt our offerings to best suit the chinese consumer. china's economy differs from the economies of other developed countries in many respects and, as the legal and regulatory system in china continues to evolve, there may be greater uncertainty as to the interpretation and enforcement of applicable laws and regulations. in march 2017, china's national tourism administration issued a directive to travel agents to halt sales of holiday packages to south korea. this travel restriction has had a direct impact on our related itineraries impacting the overall performance of our china business. it is uncertain what the ultimate scope and duration of this restriction will be, but to the extent that this or similar sanctions affecting regional travel and/or tourism continues or are put in place, it may impact local demand, available cruise itineraries and the overall financial performance of the china market. operating globally also exposes us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal, regulatory and tax requirements. in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business communities might not conform to international business standards. we must adhere to policies designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance as well as applicable laws and regulations. however, we might not be successful in ensuring that our employees, agents, representatives and other third parties with whom we associate throughout the world properly adhere to them. failure by us, our employees or any of these third parties to adhere to our policies or applicable laws or regulations could result in penalties, sanctions, damage to our reputation and related costs which in turn could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. we have operations in and source passengers from the united kingdom and other member countries of the european union. in march 2017, the united kingdom notified the european council of its intent to withdraw from the european union. since the initial referendum in june 2016, the expected withdrawal has resulted in increased volatility in the global financial markets and, in particular, in global currency exchange rates. the expected withdrawal could potentially adversely affect tax, legal and regulatory regimes to which our business in the region is subject. the expected withdrawal could also, among other potential outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the united kingdom and the european union. further, as the expected withdrawal approaches, continued uncertainty around these issues could lead to adverse effects on the economy of the united kingdom, including the value of the british pound, and the other economies in which we operate, making it more difficult to source passengers from these regions. these risks may be exacerbated if voters of other countries within the european union similarly elect to exit the european union in future referendums. as a global operator, our business may be also impacted by changes in u.s. policy or priorities in areas such as trade, immigration and/or environmental or labor regulations, among others. depending on the nature and scope of any such changes, they could impact our domestic and international business operations. any such changes, and any international response to them, could potentially introduce new barriers to passenger or crew travel and/or cross border transactions, impact our guest experience and/or increase our operating costs. if we are unable to address these risks adequately, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected, including potentially impairing the value of our ships and other assets. price increases for commercial airline service for our guests or major changes or reduction in commercial airline service and/or availability could adversely impact the demand for cruises and undermine our ability to provide reasonably priced vacation packages to our guests. 24 table of contents many of our guests depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to or from the ports where our cruises embark or disembark. increases in the price of airfare would increase the overall price of the cruise vacation to our guests, which may adversely impact demand for our cruises. in addition, changes in the availability of commercial airline services could adversely affect our guests' ability to obtain airfare, as well as our ability to fly our guests to or from our cruise ships, which could adversely affect our results of operations. incidents or adverse publicity concerning our ships and/or passengers or the cruise vacation industry in general, unusual weather conditions and other natural disasters or disruptions could affect our reputation as well as impact our sales and results of operations. the ownership and/or operation of cruise ships, private destinations, port facilities and shore excursions involves the risk of accidents, illnesses, mechanical failures, environmental incidents and other incidents which may bring into question safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction which could negatively impact our reputation. incidents involving cruise ships, and, in particular the safety, health and security of guests and crew and media coverage thereof have impacted and could in the future impact demand for our cruises and pricing in the industry. our reputation and our business could also be damaged by negative publicity regarding the cruise industry in general, including publicity regarding the spread of contagious disease and the potentially adverse environmental impacts of cruising. the considerable expansion in the use of social media and digital marketing over recent years has compounded the potential scope of any negative publicity. if any such incident or news cycle occurs during a time of high seasonal demand, the effect could disproportionately impact our results of operations for the year. in addition, incidents involving cruise ships may result in additional costs to our business, increasing government or other regulatory oversight and, in the case of incidents involving our ships, potential litigation. our cruise ships and port facilities may also be adversely impacted by weather or natural disasters or disruptions, such as hurricanes. we are often forced to alter itineraries and occasionally cancel a cruise or a series of cruises or to redeploy our ships due to these types of events, which could have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability in the current and future periods. for example, the 2017 hurricane season was particularly impactful to our operations in the caribbean. increases in the frequency, severity or duration of severe weather events, including those related to climate change, could exacerbate the impact and cause further disruption to our operations. in addition, these and any other events which impact the travel industry more generally may negatively impact our ability to deliver guests or crew to our cruises and/or interrupt our ability to obtain services and goods from key vendors in our supply chain. any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and on industry performance. an increase in capacity worldwide or excess capacity in a particular market could adversely impact our cruise sales and/or pricing. although our ships can be redeployed, cruise sales and/or pricing may be impacted by the introduction of new ships into the marketplace, reductions in cruise capacity, overall market growth and deployment decisions of ourselves and our competitors. as of december 31, 2017, a total of 75 new ships with approximately 184,000 berths are on order for delivery through 2022 in the cruise industry. the further net growth in capacity from these new ships and future orders, without an increase in the cruise industry's demand and/or share of the vacation market, could depress cruise prices and impede our ability to achieve yield improvement. in addition, to the extent that we or our competitors deploy ships to a particular itinerary and the resulting capacity in that region exceeds the demand, we may lower pricing and profitability may be lower than anticipated. this risk exists in emerging cruise markets, such as china, where capacity has grown rapidly over the past few years and in mature markets where excess capacity is typically redeployed. any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, including potentially impairing the value of our ships and other assets. unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our results of operations . 25 table of contents we believe that port destinations are a major reason why guests choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. the availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including existing capacity constraints, constraints related to the size of certain ships, security, environmental and health concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, local governmental regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists. in addition, fuel costs may adversely impact the destinations on certain of our itineraries. any limitations on the availability or feasibility of our ports of call or on the availability of shore excursions and other service providers at such ports could adversely affect our results of operations. our reliance on shipyards, their subcontractors and our suppliers to implement our newbuild and ship upgrade programs and to repair and maintain our ships exposes us to risks which, if realized, could adversely impact our business. we rely on shipyards, their subcontractors and our suppliers to effectively construct our new ships and to repair, maintain and upgrade our existing ships on a timely basis and in a cost effective manner. there are a limited number of shipyards with the capability and capacity to build our new ships and, accordingly, increased demand for available new construction slots and/or continued consolidation in the cruise shipyard industry (including completion of italian shipbuilder fincantieri's bid for stx france) could impact our ability to construct new ships when and as planned, cause us to continue to commit to new ship orders earlier than we have historically done so and/or result in stronger bargaining power on the part of the shipyards and the export credit agencies providing financing for the project. our inability to timely and cost-effectively procure new capacity could have a significant negative impact on our future business plans and results of operations. building, repairing, maintaining and/or upgrading a ship is sophisticated work that involves significant risks. in addition, the prices of labor and/or various commodities that are used in the construction of ships can be subject to volatile price changes, including the impact of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. shipyards, their subcontractors and/or our suppliers may encounter financial, technical or design problems when doing these jobs. if materialized, these problems could impact the timely delivery or costs of new ships or the ability of shipyards to repair and upgrade our fleet in accordance with our needs or expectations. in addition, delays or mechanical faults may result in cancellation of cruises or, in more severe situations, new ship orders, or necessitate unscheduled drydocks and repairs of ships. these events and any related adverse publicity could result in lost revenue, increased operating expenses, or both, and thus adversely affect our results of operations. we may lose business to competitors throughout the vacation market . we operate in the vacation market and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. we therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators, which provide other leisure options including hotels, resorts, internet-based alternative lodging sites and package holidays and tours. we face significant competition from other cruise lines on the basis of cruise pricing, travel agent preference and also in terms of the nature of ships and services we offer to guests. our principal competitors within the cruise vacation industry include carnival corporation &amp; plc, which owns, among others, aida cruises, carnival cruise line, costa cruises, cunard line, holland america line, p&amp;o cruises, princess cruises and seabourn; disney cruise line; msc cruises; and norwegian cruise line holdings ltd, which owns norwegian cruise line, oceania cruises and regent seven seas cruises. our revenues are sensitive to the actions of other cruise lines in many areas including pricing, scheduling, capacity and promotions, which can have a substantial adverse impact not only on our revenues, but on overall industry revenues. in the event that we do not effectively market or differentiate our cruise brands from our competitors or otherwise compete effectively with other vacation alternatives and new or existing cruise companies, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. 26 table of contents we may not be able to obtain sufficient financing or capital for our needs or may not be able to do so on terms that are acceptable or consistent with our expectations. to fund our capital expenditures (including new ship orders), operations and scheduled debt payments, we have historically relied on a combination of cash flows provided by operations, drawdowns under available credit facilities, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the sale of equity or debt securities in private or public securities markets. any circumstance or event which leads to a decrease in consumer cruise spending, such as worsening global economic conditions or significant incidents impacting the cruise industry, could negatively affect our operating cash flows. see - adverse worldwide economic, geopolitical or other conditions and - incidents or adverse publicity concerning our ships and/or passengers or the cruise vacation industry for more information. although we believe we can access sufficient liquidity to fund our operations, investments and obligations as expected, there can be no assurances to that effect. our ability to access additional funding as and when needed, our ability to timely refinance and/or replace our outstanding debt securities and credit facilities on acceptable terms and our cost of funding will depend upon numerous factors including, but not limited to, the vibrancy of the financial markets, our financial performance, the performance of our industry in general and the size, scope and timing of our financial needs. in addition, even where financing commitments have been secured, significant disruptions in the capital and credit markets could cause our banking and other counterparties to breach their contractual obligations to us. this could include failures of banks or other financial service companies to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements or to pay us amounts that may become due or return collateral that is refundable under our derivative contracts for hedging of fuel prices, interest rates and foreign currencies or other agreements. if any of the foregoing occurs it may have a negative impact on our cash flows, including our ability to meet our obligations, our results of operations and our financial condition. our liquidity could be adversely impacted if we are unable to satisfy the covenants required by our credit facilities. our debt agreements contain covenants, including covenants restricting our ability to take certain actions and financial covenants. our ability to maintain our credit facilities may also be impacted by changes in our ownership base. more specifically, we may be required to prepay our bank financing facilities if any person acquires ownership of more than 50% of our common stock or, subject to certain exceptions, during any 24-month period, a majority of the board is no longer comprised of individuals who were members of the board on the first day of such period. our public debt securities also contain change of control provisions that would be triggered by a third-party acquisition of greater than 50% of our common stock coupled with a ratings downgrade. our failure to comply with the terms of our debt facilities could result in an event of default. generally, if an event of default under any debt agreement occurs, then pursuant to cross default acceleration clauses, our outstanding debt and derivative contract payables could become due and/or terminated. in addition, in such events, our credit card processors could hold back payments to create a reserve. we cannot provide assurances that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay, or the ability to refinance the debt if such amounts were accelerated upon an event of default. if we are unable to appropriately balance our cost management and capital allocation strategies with our goal of satisfying guest expectations, it may adversely impact our business success. our goals call for us to provide high quality products and deliver high quality services. there can be no assurance that we can successfully balance these goals with our cost management and capital allocation strategies. our business also requires us to make capital allocation decisions, such as ordering new ships and/or upgrading our existing fleet, based on expected market preferences and projected demand. there can be no assurance that our strategies will be successful, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. investments in older tonnage, in particular, run the risk of not meeting expected returns and diluting related asset values. our attempts to expand our business into new markets and new ventures may not be successful. 27 table of contents we opportunistically seek to grow our business through, among other things, expansion into new destination or source markets and establishment of new ventures complementary to our current offerings. these attempts to expand our business increase the complexity of our business, require significant levels of investment and can strain our management, personnel, operations and systems. there can be no assurance that these business expansion efforts will develop as anticipated or that we will succeed, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. our reliance on travel agencies to sell and market our cruises exposes us to certain risks which, if realized, could adversely impact our business. we rely on travel agencies to generate the majority of bookings for our ships. accordingly, we must ensure that our commission rates and incentive structures remain competitive. if we fail to offer competitive compensation packages, these agencies may be incentivized to sell cruises offered by our competitors to our detriment, which could adversely impact our operating results. our reliance on third-party sellers is particularly pronounced in certain markets, such as china, where we have a large number of travel agent charter and group sales and less retail agency and direct booking. in addition, the travel agent industry is sensitive to economic conditions that impact discretionary income. significant disruptions, especially disruptions impacting those agencies that sell a high volume of our business, or contractions in the industry could reduce the number of travel agencies available for us to market and sell our cruises, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. disruptions in our shoreside or shipboard operations or our information systems may adversely affect our results of operations. our principal executive office and principal shoreside operations are located in florida, and we have shoreside offices throughout the world. actual or threatened natural disasters (e.g., hurricanes/typhoons, earthquakes, tornadoes, fires or floods) or similar events in these locations may have a material impact on our business continuity, reputation and results of operations. in addition, substantial or repeated information systems failures, computer viruses or cyber-attacks impacting our shoreside or shipboard operations could adversely impact our business. we do not generally carry business interruption insurance for our shoreside or shipboard operations or our information systems. as such, any losses or damages incurred by us could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. the loss of key personnel, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel, or disruptions among our shipboard personnel due to strained employee relations could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends, in large part, on the skills and contributions of key executives and other employees, and on our ability to recruit, develop and retain high quality personnel. as demand for qualified personnel in the industry grows, we must continue to effectively recruit, train, motivate and retain our employees, both shoreside and on our ships, in order to effectively compete in our industry, maintain our current business and support our projected global growth. as of december 31, 2017, 85% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. a dispute under our collective bargaining agreements could result in a work stoppage of those employees covered by the agreements. we may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate these collective bargaining agreements when they expire. in addition, existing collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage on our ships. we may also be subject to or affected by work stoppages unrelated to our business or collective bargaining agreements. any such work stoppages or potential work stoppages could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, as could a loss of key employees, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel or disruptions among our personnel. business activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may subject us to additional risks. partnerships, joint ventures and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to 28 table of contents meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. with the sale of 51% of our interest in pullmantur holdings in july 2016, we continue to expand the breadth of our co-investment activities, which also include tui cruises, skysea cruises, grand bahama shipyard and minority ownership investments in various port development and other projects. in addition to financial risks, our co-investment activities may also present managerial and operational risks and expose us to reputational or legal concerns. these or other issues related to our co-investment with third parties could adversely impact our operations. we rely on supply chain vendors and third-party service providers who are integral to the operations of our businesses. these vendors and service providers may be unable or unwilling to deliver on their commitments or may act in ways that could harm our business. we rely on supply chain vendors to deliver key products to the operations of our businesses around the world. any event impacting a vendor's ability to deliver goods of the required quality at the location and time needed could negatively impact our ability to deliver our cruise experience. events impacting our supply chain could be caused by factors beyond the control of our suppliers or us, including inclement weather, natural disasters, increased demand, problems in production or distribution and/or disruptions in third-party logistics or transportation systems. interruptions to our supply chain could increase costs and could limit the availability of products critical to our operations. in order to achieve cost and operational efficiencies, we outsource to third-party vendors certain services that are integral to the operations of our global businesses, such as our onboard concessionaires, certain of our call center operations and operation of a large part of our information technology systems. we are subject to the risk that certain decisions are subject to the control of our third-party service providers and that these decisions may adversely affect our activities. a failure to adequately monitor a third-party service provider's compliance with a service level agreement or regulatory or legal requirements could result in significant economic and reputational harm to us. there is also a risk the confidentiality, privacy and/or security of data held by third parties or communicated over third-party networks or platforms could become compromised. a failure to keep pace with developments in technology or technological obsolescence could impair our operations or competitive position. our business continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems. these technologies and systems require significant investment and must be proven, refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems in order to continue to meet our customers' demands and expectations. if we are unable to do so in a timely manner or within reasonable cost parameters or if we are unable to appropriately and timely train our employees to operate any of these new systems, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. we may be exposed to the threat of cyber attacks and/or data breaches, including the risks and costs associated with protecting our key operating systems and maintaining integrity and security of our business information, as well as personal data of our guests, employees and business partners. cyber attacks can vary in scope and intent from economically driven attacks to malicious attacks targeting our key operating systems with the intent to disrupt, disable or otherwise cripple our maritime and /or shoreside operations. this can include any combination of phishing attacks, malware and/or viruses targeted at our key systems. the breadth and scope of this threat has grown over time, and the techniques and sophistication used to conduct cyber attacks, as well as the sources and targets of the attacks, change frequently. while we invest time, effort and capital resources to secure our key systems and networks, our security measures cannot provide absolute assurance that we will be successful in preventing or responding to all such attacks. a successful cyber attack may target us directly, or may be the result of a third party vendor's inadequate care. in either scenario, the company may suffer damage to its key systems and/or data that could interrupt our operations, adversely impact our reputation and brand and expose us to increased risks of governmental investigation, litigation 29 table of contents and other liability, any of which could adversely affect our business. furthermore, responding to such an attack and mitigating the risk of future attacks could result in additional operating and capital costs in systems technology, personnel, monitoring and other investments. in addition to malicious cyber attacks, we are also subject to various risks associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of sensitive information. in the course of doing business, we collect large volumes of internal, customer and other third-party data, including personally identifiable information and individual credit data, for various business purposes. we are subject to federal, state and international laws (including the european union general data protection regulation which will take effect in may 2018), as well as industry standards, relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personally identifiable information and individual credit data. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between the company and its subsidiaries, and among the company, its subsidiaries and other parties with which the company has commercial relations. several jurisdictions have passed laws in this area, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. these laws continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. complying with emerging and changing international requirements has caused, and may cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices. if we fail to comply with the various applicable data collection and privacy laws, we could be exposed to fines, penalties, restrictions, litigation or other expenses, and our business could be adversely impacted. even if we are fully compliant with legal and/or industry standards and any relevant contractual requirements, we still may not be able to prevent security breaches involving sensitive data and/or critical systems. any breach, theft, loss, or fraudulent use of guest, employee, third-party or company data, could adversely impact our reputation and brand and our ability to retain or attract new customers, and expose us to risks of data loss, business disruption, governmental investigation, litigation and other liability, any of which could adversely affect our business. significant capital investments and other expenditures could be required to remedy the problem and prevent future breaches, including costs associated with additional security technologies, personnel, experts and credit monitoring services for those whose data has been breached. further, if we or our vendors experience significant data security breaches or fail to detect and appropriately respond to significant data security breaches, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation. the potential unavailability of insurance coverage or an inability to obtain insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we seek to maintain appropriate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates. we normally insure based on the cost of an asset rather than replacement value and we also elect to self-insure, co-insure, or use deductibles in certain circumstances for certain risks such as loss of use of a ship or a cyber-security breach. the limits of insurance coverage we purchase are based on the availability of the coverage, evaluation of our risk profile and cost of coverage. accordingly, we are not protected against all risks which could result in an unexpected decrease in our revenue and results of operations in the event of an incident. we are members of three protection and indemnity ("p&amp;i") clubs, which are part of a worldwide group of 13 p&amp;i clubs, known as the international group of p&amp;i clubs (the ig ). p&amp;i coverage provided by the clubs is on a mutual basis and we are subject to additional premium calls in the event of a catastrophic loss incurred by any member of the 13 p&amp;i clubs, whereby the reinsurance limits purchased by the ig are exhausted. we are also subject to additional premium calls based on investment and underwriting shortfalls experienced by our own individual insurers. we cannot be certain that insurance and reinsurance coverage will be available to us and at commercially reasonable rates in the future. additionally, if we or other insureds sustain significant losses, the result may be higher insurance premiums, cancellation of coverage, or the inability to obtain coverage. such events could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. environmental, labor, health and safety, financial responsibility and other maritime regulations could affect operations and increase operating costs. 30 table of contents the united states and various state and foreign government or regulatory agencies have enacted or may enact environmental regulations or policies, such as requiring the use of low sulfur fuels, that could increase our direct cost to operate in certain markets, increase our cost for fuel, limit the supply of compliant fuel, cause us to incur significant expenses to purchase and/or develop new equipment and adversely impact the cruise vacation industry. while we have taken and expect to continue to take a number of actions to mitigate the potential impact of certain of these regulations, there can be no assurances that these efforts will be successful or completed on a timely basis. there is increasing global regulatory focus on climate change and greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions. these regulatory efforts, both internationally and in the united states are still developing, and we cannot yet determine what the final regulatory programs or their impact will be in any jurisdiction where we do business. however, such climate change-related regulatory activity in the future may adversely affect our business and financial results by requiring us to reduce our emissions, purchase allowances or otherwise pay for our emissions. such activity may also impact us by increasing our operating costs, including fuel costs. some environmental groups have also lobbied for more stringent regulation of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise vacation industry and its environmental impact. see item 1. business-regulation-environmental regulations . in addition, we are subject to various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties that govern, among other things, discharge from our ships, safety standards applicable to our ships, treatment of disabled persons, health and sanitary standards applicable to our guests, security standards on board our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities to our guests. these issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. this could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that could subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. a change in our tax status under the united states internal revenue code, or other jurisdictions, may have adverse effects on our income . we and a number of our subsidiaries are foreign corporations that derive income from a u.s. trade or business and/or from sources within the united states. drinker biddle &amp; reath llp, our u.s. tax counsel, has delivered to us an opinion, based on certain representations and assumptions set forth in it, to the effect that this income, to the extent derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, is excluded from gross income for u.s. federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 883 of the internal revenue code. we believe that most of our income (including that of our subsidiaries) is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships. our ability to rely on section 883 could be challenged or could change in the future. provisions of the internal revenue code, including section 883, are subject to legislative change at any time. moreover, changes could occur in the future with respect to the identity, residence or holdings of our direct or indirect shareholders, trading volume or trading frequency of our shares, or relevant foreign tax laws of liberia such that it no longer qualifies as an equivalent exemption jurisdiction, that could affect our eligibility for the section 883 exemption. accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be exempt from u.s. income tax on u.s. source shipping income in the future. if we were not entitled to the benefit of section 883, we and our subsidiaries would be subject to u.s. taxation on a portion of the income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships, which would reduce our net income. additionally, portions of our business are operated by companies that are within the united kingdom tonnage tax regime. further, some of our operations are conducted in jurisdictions where we rely on tax treaties to provide exemption from taxation. to the extent the united kingdom tonnage tax laws change or we do not continue to meet the applicable qualification requirements or if tax treaties are changed or revoked, we may be required to pay higher income tax in these jurisdictions, adversely impacting our results of operations. 31 table of contents as budgetary constraints continue to adversely impact the jurisdictions in which we operate, increases in income tax regulations, tax audits or tax reform affecting our operations may be imposed. litigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and/or damage our reputation. our business is subject to various united states and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. in addition, improper conduct by our employees, agents or joint venture partners could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. in certain circumstances it may not be economical to defend against such matters and/or a legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. we are not a united states corporation and our shareholders may be subject to the uncertainties of a foreign legal system in protecting their interests. our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the business corporation act of liberia. the provisions of the business corporation act of liberia resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the united states. however, while most states have a fairly well developed body of case law interpreting their respective corporate statutes, there are very few judicial cases in liberia interpreting the business corporation act of liberia. as such, the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under liberian law are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in certain united states jurisdictions. for example, the right of shareholders to bring a derivative action in liberian courts may be more limited than in united states jurisdictions. there may also be practical difficulties for shareholders attempting to bring suit in liberia and liberian courts may or may not recognize and enforce foreign judgments. thus, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests with respect to actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a united states jurisdiction. provisions of our articles of incorporation, by-laws and liberian law could inhibit others from acquiring us, prevent a change of control, and may prevent efforts by our shareholders to change our management. certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws and liberian law may inhibit third parties from effectuating a change of control of the company without board approval which could result in the entrenchment of current management. these include provisions in our articles of incorporation that prevent third parties, other than a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates, from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of our outstanding shares without the consent of our board of directors. 32 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for more information. conducting business globally may result in increased costs and other risks. we operate our business globally. operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including increased exposure to a wider range of regional and local economic conditions, volatile local political conditions, potential 23 table of contents changes in duties and taxes, including changing and/or uncertain interpretations of existing tax laws and regulations, required compliance with additional laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses or governing the operations of foreign-based companies, currency fluctuations, interest rate movements, difficulties in operating under local business environments, port quality and availability in certain regions, u.s. and global anti-bribery laws or regulations, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings. our future growth strategies increasingly depend on the growth and sustained profitability of certain international markets, such as china. some factors that will be critical to our success in developing these markets may be different than those affecting our more-established north american and european markets. in the chinese market, in particular, our future success depends on our ability to continue to raise awareness of our products, evolve the available distribution channels and adapt our offerings to best suit the chinese consumer. china's economy differs from the economies of other developed countries in many respects and, as the legal and regulatory system in china continues to evolve, there may be greater uncertainty as to the interpretation and enforcement of applicable laws and regulations. in march 2017, china's national tourism administration issued a directive to travel agents to halt sales of holiday packages to south korea. this travel restriction has had a direct impact on our related itineraries impacting the overall performance of our china business. it is uncertain what the ultimate scope and duration of this restriction will be, but to the extent that this or similar sanctions affecting regional travel and/or tourism continues or are put in place, it may impact local demand, available cruise itineraries and the overall financial performance of the china market. operating globally also exposes us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal, regulatory and tax requirements. in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business communities might not conform to international business standards. we must adhere to policies designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance as well as applicable laws and regulations. however, we might not be successful in ensuring that our employees, agents, representatives and other third parties with whom we associate throughout the world properly adhere to them. failure by us, our employees or any of these third parties to adhere to our policies or applicable laws or regulations could result in penalties, sanctions, damage to our reputation and related costs which in turn could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. we have operations in and source passengers from the united kingdom and other member countries of the european union. in march 2017, the united kingdom notified the european council of its intent to withdraw from the european union. since the initial referendum in june 2016, the expected withdrawal has resulted in increased volatility in the global financial markets and, in particular, in global currency exchange rates. the expected withdrawal could potentially adversely affect tax, legal and regulatory regimes to which our business in the region is subject. the expected withdrawal could also, among other potential outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the united kingdom and the european union. further, as the expected withdrawal approaches, continued uncertainty around these issues could lead to adverse effects on the economy of the united kingdom, including the value of the british pound, and the other economies in which we operate, making it more difficult to source passengers from these regions. these risks may be exacerbated if voters of other countries within the european union similarly elect to exit the european union in future referendums. as a global operator, our business may be also impacted by changes in u.s. policy or priorities in areas such as trade, immigration and/or environmental or labor regulations, among others. depending on the nature and scope of any such changes, they could impact our domestic and international business operations. any such changes, and any international response to them, could potentially introduce new barriers to passenger or crew travel and/or cross border transactions, impact our guest experience and/or increase our operating costs. if we are unable to address these risks adequately, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected, including potentially impairing the value of our ships and other assets. price increases for commercial airline service for our guests or major changes or reduction in commercial airline service and/or availability could adversely impact the demand for cruises and undermine our ability to provide reasonably priced vacation packages to our guests. 24 table of contents many of our guests depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to or from the ports where our cruises embark or disembark. increases in the price of airfare would increase the overall price of the cruise vacation to our guests, which may adversely impact demand for our cruises. in addition, changes in the availability of commercial airline services could adversely affect our guests' ability to obtain airfare, as well as our ability to fly our guests to or from our cruise ships, which could adversely affect our results of operations. incidents or adverse publicity concerning our ships and/or passengers or the cruise vacation industry in general, unusual weather conditions and other natural disasters or disruptions could affect our reputation as well as impact our sales and results of operations. the ownership and/or operation of cruise ships, private destinations, port facilities and shore excursions involves the risk of accidents, illnesses, mechanical failures, environmental incidents and other incidents which may bring into question safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction which could negatively impact our reputation. incidents involving cruise ships, and, in particular the safety, health and security of guests and crew and media coverage thereof have impacted and could in the future impact demand for our cruises and pricing in the industry. our reputation and our business could also be damaged by negative publicity regarding the cruise industry in general, including publicity regarding the spread of contagious disease and the potentially adverse environmental impacts of cruising. the considerable expansion in the use of social media and digital marketing over recent years has compounded the potential scope of any negative publicity. if any such incident or news cycle occurs during a time of high seasonal demand, the effect could disproportionately impact our results of operations for the year. in addition, incidents involving cruise ships may result in additional costs to our business, increasing government or other regulatory oversight and, in the case of incidents involving our ships, potential litigation. our cruise ships and port facilities may also be adversely impacted by weather or natural disasters or disruptions, such as hurricanes. we are often forced to alter itineraries and occasionally cancel a cruise or a series of cruises or to redeploy our ships due to these types of events, which could have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability in the current and future periods. for example, the 2017 hurricane season was particularly impactful to our operations in the caribbean. increases in the frequency, severity or duration of severe weather events, including those related to climate change, could exacerbate the impact and cause further disruption to our operations. in addition, these and any other events which impact the travel industry more generally may negatively impact our ability to deliver guests or crew to our cruises and/or interrupt our ability to obtain services and goods from key vendors in our supply chain. any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and on industry performance. an increase in capacity worldwide or excess capacity in a particular market could adversely impact our cruise sales and/or pricing. although our ships can be redeployed, cruise sales and/or pricing may be impacted by the introduction of new ships into the marketplace, reductions in cruise capacity, overall market growth and deployment decisions of ourselves and our competitors. as of december 31, 2017, a total of 75 new ships with approximately 184,000 berths are on order for delivery through 2022 in the cruise industry. the further net growth in capacity from these new ships and future orders, without an increase in the cruise industry's demand and/or share of the vacation market, could depress cruise prices and impede our ability to achieve yield improvement. in addition, to the extent that we or our competitors deploy ships to a particular itinerary and the resulting capacity in that region exceeds the demand, we may lower pricing and profitability may be lower than anticipated. this risk exists in emerging cruise markets, such as china, where capacity has grown rapidly over the past few years and in mature markets where excess capacity is typically redeployed. any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, including potentially impairing the value of our ships and other assets. unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our results of operations . 25 table of contents we believe that port destinations are a major reason why guests choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. the availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including existing capacity constraints, constraints related to the size of certain ships, security, environmental and health concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, local governmental regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists. in addition, fuel costs may adversely impact the destinations on certain of our itineraries. any limitations on the availability or feasibility of our ports of call or on the availability of shore excursions and other service providers at such ports could adversely affect our results of operations. our reliance on shipyards, their subcontractors and our suppliers to implement our newbuild and ship upgrade programs and to repair and maintain our ships exposes us to risks which, if realized, could adversely impact our business. we rely on shipyards, their subcontractors and our suppliers to effectively construct our new ships and to repair, maintain and upgrade our existing ships on a timely basis and in a cost effective manner. there are a limited number of shipyards with the capability and capacity to build our new ships and, accordingly, increased demand for available new construction slots and/or continued consolidation in the cruise shipyard industry (including completion of italian shipbuilder fincantieri's bid for stx france) could impact our ability to construct new ships when and as planned, cause us to continue to commit to new ship orders earlier than we have historically done so and/or result in stronger bargaining power on the part of the shipyards and the export credit agencies providing financing for the project. our inability to timely and cost-effectively procure new capacity could have a significant negative impact on our future business plans and results of operations. building, repairing, maintaining and/or upgrading a ship is sophisticated work that involves significant risks. in addition, the prices of labor and/or various commodities that are used in the construction of ships can be subject to volatile price changes, including the impact of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. shipyards, their subcontractors and/or our suppliers may encounter financial, technical or design problems when doing these jobs. if materialized, these problems could impact the timely delivery or costs of new ships or the ability of shipyards to repair and upgrade our fleet in accordance with our needs or expectations. in addition, delays or mechanical faults may result in cancellation of cruises or, in more severe situations, new ship orders, or necessitate unscheduled drydocks and repairs of ships. these events and any related adverse publicity could result in lost revenue, increased operating expenses, or both, and thus adversely affect our results of operations. we may lose business to competitors throughout the vacation market . we operate in the vacation market and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. we therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators, which provide other leisure options including hotels, resorts, internet-based alternative lodging sites and package holidays and tours. we face significant competition from other cruise lines on the basis of cruise pricing, travel agent preference and also in terms of the nature of ships and services we offer to guests. our principal competitors within the cruise vacation industry include carnival corporation &amp; plc, which owns, among others, aida cruises, carnival cruise line, costa cruises, cunard line, holland america line, p&amp;o cruises, princess cruises and seabourn; disney cruise line; msc cruises; and norwegian cruise line holdings ltd, which owns norwegian cruise line, oceania cruises and regent seven seas cruises. our revenues are sensitive to the actions of other cruise lines in many areas including pricing, scheduling, capacity and promotions, which can have a substantial adverse impact not only on our revenues, but on overall industry revenues. in the event that we do not effectively market or differentiate our cruise brands from our competitors or otherwise compete effectively with other vacation alternatives and new or existing cruise companies, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. 26 table of contents we may not be able to obtain sufficient financing or capital for our needs or may not be able to do so on terms that are acceptable or consistent with our expectations. to fund our capital expenditures (including new ship orders), operations and scheduled debt payments, we have historically relied on a combination of cash flows provided by operations, drawdowns under available credit facilities, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the sale of equity or debt securities in private or public securities markets. any circumstance or event which leads to a decrease in consumer cruise spending, such as worsening global economic conditions or significant incidents impacting the cruise industry, could negatively affect our operating cash flows. see - adverse worldwide economic, geopolitical or other conditions and - incidents or adverse publicity concerning our ships and/or passengers or the cruise vacation industry for more information. although we believe we can access sufficient liquidity to fund our operations, investments and obligations as expected, there can be no assurances to that effect. our ability to access additional funding as and when needed, our ability to timely refinance and/or replace our outstanding debt securities and credit facilities on acceptable terms and our cost of funding will depend upon numerous factors including, but not limited to, the vibrancy of the financial markets, our financial performance, the performance of our industry in general and the size, scope and timing of our financial needs. in addition, even where financing commitments have been secured, significant disruptions in the capital and credit markets could cause our banking and other counterparties to breach their contractual obligations to us. this could include failures of banks or other financial service companies to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements or to pay us amounts that may become due or return collateral that is refundable under our derivative contracts for hedging of fuel prices, interest rates and foreign currencies or other agreements. if any of the foregoing occurs it may have a negative impact on our cash flows, including our ability to meet our obligations, our results of operations and our financial condition. our liquidity could be adversely impacted if we are unable to satisfy the covenants required by our credit facilities. our debt agreements contain covenants, including covenants restricting our ability to take certain actions and financial covenants. our ability to maintain our credit facilities may also be impacted by changes in our ownership base. more specifically, we may be required to prepay our bank financing facilities if any person acquires ownership of more than 50% of our common stock or, subject to certain exceptions, during any 24-month period, a majority of the board is no longer comprised of individuals who were members of the board on the first day of such period. our public debt securities also contain change of control provisions that would be triggered by a third-party acquisition of greater than 50% of our common stock coupled with a ratings downgrade. our failure to comply with the terms of our debt facilities could result in an event of default. generally, if an event of default under any debt agreement occurs, then pursuant to cross default acceleration clauses, our outstanding debt and derivative contract payables could become due and/or terminated. in addition, in such events, our credit card processors could hold back payments to create a reserve. we cannot provide assurances that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay, or the ability to refinance the debt if such amounts were accelerated upon an event of default. if we are unable to appropriately balance our cost management and capital allocation strategies with our goal of satisfying guest expectations, it may adversely impact our business success. our goals call for us to provide high quality products and deliver high quality services. there can be no assurance that we can successfully balance these goals with our cost management and capital allocation strategies. our business also requires us to make capital allocation decisions, such as ordering new ships and/or upgrading our existing fleet, based on expected market preferences and projected demand. there can be no assurance that our strategies will be successful, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. investments in older tonnage, in particular, run the risk of not meeting expected returns and diluting related asset values. our attempts to expand our business into new markets and new ventures may not be successful. 27 table of contents we opportunistically seek to grow our business through, among other things, expansion into new destination or source markets and establishment of new ventures complementary to our current offerings. these attempts to expand our business increase the complexity of our business, require significant levels of investment and can strain our management, personnel, operations and systems. there can be no assurance that these business expansion efforts will develop as anticipated or that we will succeed, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. our reliance on travel agencies to sell and market our cruises exposes us to certain risks which, if realized, could adversely impact our business. we rely on travel agencies to generate the majority of bookings for our ships. accordingly, we must ensure that our commission rates and incentive structures remain competitive. if we fail to offer competitive compensation packages, these agencies may be incentivized to sell cruises offered by our competitors to our detriment, which could adversely impact our operating results. our reliance on third-party sellers is particularly pronounced in certain markets, such as china, where we have a large number of travel agent charter and group sales and less retail agency and direct booking. in addition, the travel agent industry is sensitive to economic conditions that impact discretionary income. significant disruptions, especially disruptions impacting those agencies that sell a high volume of our business, or contractions in the industry could reduce the number of travel agencies available for us to market and sell our cruises, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. disruptions in our shoreside or shipboard operations or our information systems may adversely affect our results of operations. our principal executive office and principal shoreside operations are located in florida, and we have shoreside offices throughout the world. actual or threatened natural disasters (e.g., hurricanes/typhoons, earthquakes, tornadoes, fires or floods) or similar events in these locations may have a material impact on our business continuity, reputation and results of operations. in addition, substantial or repeated information systems failures, computer viruses or cyber-attacks impacting our shoreside or shipboard operations could adversely impact our business. we do not generally carry business interruption insurance for our shoreside or shipboard operations or our information systems. as such, any losses or damages incurred by us could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. the loss of key personnel, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel, or disruptions among our shipboard personnel due to strained employee relations could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends, in large part, on the skills and contributions of key executives and other employees, and on our ability to recruit, develop and retain high quality personnel. as demand for qualified personnel in the industry grows, we must continue to effectively recruit, train, motivate and retain our employees, both shoreside and on our ships, in order to effectively compete in our industry, maintain our current business and support our projected global growth. as of december 31, 2017, 85% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. a dispute under our collective bargaining agreements could result in a work stoppage of those employees covered by the agreements. we may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate these collective bargaining agreements when they expire. in addition, existing collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage on our ships. we may also be subject to or affected by work stoppages unrelated to our business or collective bargaining agreements. any such work stoppages or potential work stoppages could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, as could a loss of key employees, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel or disruptions among our personnel. business activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may subject us to additional risks. partnerships, joint ventures and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to 28 table of contents meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. with the sale of 51% of our interest in pullmantur holdings in july 2016, we continue to expand the breadth of our co-investment activities, which also include tui cruises, skysea cruises, grand bahama shipyard and minority ownership investments in various port development and other projects. in addition to financial risks, our co-investment activities may also present managerial and operational risks and expose us to reputational or legal concerns. these or other issues related to our co-investment with third parties could adversely impact our operations. we rely on supply chain vendors and third-party service providers who are integral to the operations of our businesses. these vendors and service providers may be unable or unwilling to deliver on their commitments or may act in ways that could harm our business. we rely on supply chain vendors to deliver key products to the operations of our businesses around the world. any event impacting a vendor's ability to deliver goods of the required quality at the location and time needed could negatively impact our ability to deliver our cruise experience. events impacting our supply chain could be caused by factors beyond the control of our suppliers or us, including inclement weather, natural disasters, increased demand, problems in production or distribution and/or disruptions in third-party logistics or transportation systems. interruptions to our supply chain could increase costs and could limit the availability of products critical to our operations. in order to achieve cost and operational efficiencies, we outsource to third-party vendors certain services that are integral to the operations of our global businesses, such as our onboard concessionaires, certain of our call center operations and operation of a large part of our information technology systems. we are subject to the risk that certain decisions are subject to the control of our third-party service providers and that these decisions may adversely affect our activities. a failure to adequately monitor a third-party service provider's compliance with a service level agreement or regulatory or legal requirements could result in significant economic and reputational harm to us. there is also a risk the confidentiality, privacy and/or security of data held by third parties or communicated over third-party networks or platforms could become compromised. a failure to keep pace with developments in technology or technological obsolescence could impair our operations or competitive position. our business continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems. these technologies and systems require significant investment and must be proven, refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems in order to continue to meet our customers' demands and expectations. if we are unable to do so in a timely manner or within reasonable cost parameters or if we are unable to appropriately and timely train our employees to operate any of these new systems, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. we may be exposed to the threat of cyber attacks and/or data breaches, including the risks and costs associated with protecting our key operating systems and maintaining integrity and security of our business information, as well as personal data of our guests, employees and business partners. cyber attacks can vary in scope and intent from economically driven attacks to malicious attacks targeting our key operating systems with the intent to disrupt, disable or otherwise cripple our maritime and /or shoreside operations. this can include any combination of phishing attacks, malware and/or viruses targeted at our key systems. the breadth and scope of this threat has grown over time, and the techniques and sophistication used to conduct cyber attacks, as well as the sources and targets of the attacks, change frequently. while we invest time, effort and capital resources to secure our key systems and networks, our security measures cannot provide absolute assurance that we will be successful in preventing or responding to all such attacks. a successful cyber attack may target us directly, or may be the result of a third party vendor's inadequate care. in either scenario, the company may suffer damage to its key systems and/or data that could interrupt our operations, adversely impact our reputation and brand and expose us to increased risks of governmental investigation, litigation 29 table of contents and other liability, any of which could adversely affect our business. furthermore, responding to such an attack and mitigating the risk of future attacks could result in additional operating and capital costs in systems technology, personnel, monitoring and other investments. in addition to malicious cyber attacks, we are also subject to various risks associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of sensitive information. in the course of doing business, we collect large volumes of internal, customer and other third-party data, including personally identifiable information and individual credit data, for various business purposes. we are subject to federal, state and international laws (including the european union general data protection regulation which will take effect in may 2018), as well as industry standards, relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personally identifiable information and individual credit data. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between the company and its subsidiaries, and among the company, its subsidiaries and other parties with which the company has commercial relations. several jurisdictions have passed laws in this area, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. these laws continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. complying with emerging and changing international requirements has caused, and may cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices. if we fail to comply with the various applicable data collection and privacy laws, we could be exposed to fines, penalties, restrictions, litigation or other expenses, and our business could be adversely impacted. even if we are fully compliant with legal and/or industry standards and any relevant contractual requirements, we still may not be able to prevent security breaches involving sensitive data and/or critical systems. any breach, theft, loss, or fraudulent use of guest, employee, third-party or company data, could adversely impact our reputation and brand and our ability to retain or attract new customers, and expose us to risks of data loss, business disruption, governmental investigation, litigation and other liability, any of which could adversely affect our business. significant capital investments and other expenditures could be required to remedy the problem and prevent future breaches, including costs associated with additional security technologies, personnel, experts and credit monitoring services for those whose data has been breached. further, if we or our vendors experience significant data security breaches or fail to detect and appropriately respond to significant data security breaches, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation. the potential unavailability of insurance coverage or an inability to obtain insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we seek to maintain appropriate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates. we normally insure based on the cost of an asset rather than replacement value and we also elect to self-insure, co-insure, or use deductibles in certain circumstances for certain risks such as loss of use of a ship or a cyber-security breach. the limits of insurance coverage we purchase are based on the availability of the coverage, evaluation of our risk profile and cost of coverage. accordingly, we are not protected against all risks which could result in an unexpected decrease in our revenue and results of operations in the event of an incident. we are members of three protection and indemnity ("p&amp;i") clubs, which are part of a worldwide group of 13 p&amp;i clubs, known as the international group of p&amp;i clubs (the ig ). p&amp;i coverage provided by the clubs is on a mutual basis and we are subject to additional premium calls in the event of a catastrophic loss incurred by any member of the 13 p&amp;i clubs, whereby the reinsurance limits purchased by the ig are exhausted. we are also subject to additional premium calls based on investment and underwriting shortfalls experienced by our own individual insurers. we cannot be certain that insurance and reinsurance coverage will be available to us and at commercially reasonable rates in the future. additionally, if we or other insureds sustain significant losses, the result may be higher insurance premiums, cancellation of coverage, or the inability to obtain coverage. such events could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. environmental, labor, health and safety, financial responsibility and other maritime regulations could affect operations and increase operating costs. 30 table of contents the united states and various state and foreign government or regulatory agencies have enacted or may enact environmental regulations or policies, such as requiring the use of low sulfur fuels, that could increase our direct cost to operate in certain markets, increase our cost for fuel, limit the supply of compliant fuel, cause us to incur significant expenses to purchase and/or develop new equipment and adversely impact the cruise vacation industry. while we have taken and expect to continue to take a number of actions to mitigate the potential impact of certain of these regulations, there can be no assurances that these efforts will be successful or completed on a timely basis. there is increasing global regulatory focus on climate change and greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions. these regulatory efforts, both internationally and in the united states are still developing, and we cannot yet determine what the final regulatory programs or their impact will be in any jurisdiction where we do business. however, such climate change-related regulatory activity in the future may adversely affect our business and financial results by requiring us to reduce our emissions, purchase allowances or otherwise pay for our emissions. such activity may also impact us by increasing our operating costs, including fuel costs. some environmental groups have also lobbied for more stringent regulation of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise vacation industry and its environmental impact. see item 1. business-regulation-environmental regulations . in addition, we are subject to various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties that govern, among other things, discharge from our ships, safety standards applicable to our ships, treatment of disabled persons, health and sanitary standards applicable to our guests, security standards on board our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities to our guests. these issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. this could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that could subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. a change in our tax status under the united states internal revenue code, or other jurisdictions, may have adverse effects on our income . we and a number of our subsidiaries are foreign corporations that derive income from a u.s. trade or business and/or from sources within the united states. drinker biddle &amp; reath llp, our u.s. tax counsel, has delivered to us an opinion, based on certain representations and assumptions set forth in it, to the effect that this income, to the extent derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, is excluded from gross income for u.s. federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 883 of the internal revenue code. we believe that most of our income (including that of our subsidiaries) is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships. our ability to rely on section 883 could be challenged or could change in the future. provisions of the internal revenue code, including section 883, are subject to legislative change at any time. moreover, changes could occur in the future with respect to the identity, residence or holdings of our direct or indirect shareholders, trading volume or trading frequency of our shares, or relevant foreign tax laws of liberia such that it no longer qualifies as an equivalent exemption jurisdiction, that could affect our eligibility for the section 883 exemption. accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be exempt from u.s. income tax on u.s. source shipping income in the future. if we were not entitled to the benefit of section 883, we and our subsidiaries would be subject to u.s. taxation on a portion of the income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships, which would reduce our net income. additionally, portions of our business are operated by companies that are within the united kingdom tonnage tax regime. further, some of our operations are conducted in jurisdictions where we rely on tax treaties to provide exemption from taxation. to the extent the united kingdom tonnage tax laws change or we do not continue to meet the applicable qualification requirements or if tax treaties are changed or revoked, we may be required to pay higher income tax in these jurisdictions, adversely impacting our results of operations. 31 table of contents as budgetary constraints continue to adversely impact the jurisdictions in which we operate, increases in income tax regulations, tax audits or tax reform affecting our operations may be imposed. litigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and/or damage our reputation. our business is subject to various united states and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. in addition, improper conduct by our employees, agents or joint venture partners could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. in certain circumstances it may not be economical to defend against such matters and/or a legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. we are not a united states corporation and our shareholders may be subject to the uncertainties of a foreign legal system in protecting their interests. our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the business corporation act of liberia. the provisions of the business corporation act of liberia resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the united states. however, while most states have a fairly well developed body of case law interpreting their respective corporate statutes, there are very few judicial cases in liberia interpreting the business corporation act of liberia. as such, the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under liberian law are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in certain united states jurisdictions. for example, the right of shareholders to bring a derivative action in liberian courts may be more limited than in united states jurisdictions. there may also be practical difficulties for shareholders attempting to bring suit in liberia and liberian courts may or may not recognize and enforce foreign judgments. thus, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests with respect to actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a united states jurisdiction. provisions of our articles of incorporation, by-laws and liberian law could inhibit others from acquiring us, prevent a change of control, and may prevent efforts by our shareholders to change our management. certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws and liberian law may inhibit third parties from effectuating a change of control of the company without board approval which could result in the entrenchment of current management. these include provisions in our articles of incorporation that prevent third parties, other than a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates, from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of our outstanding shares without the consent of our board of directors. 32 table of contents item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties information about our cruise ships, including their size and primary areas of operation, may be found within the operating strategies - fleet upgrade, maintenance and expansion section and the operations - cruise ships and itineraries sections in item 1 . business . information regarding our cruise ships under construction, estimated expenditures and financing may be found within the future capital commitments and funding needs and sources sections of item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our principal executive office and principal shoreside operations are located in leased office buildings at the port of miami, florida. we also lease a number of other offices in the us and throughout europe, asia, mexico, south america and australia to administer our brand operations globally. we believe that our facilities are adequate for our current needs and that we are capable of obtaining additional facilities as necessary. we also operate two private destinations which we utilize as ports-of-call on certain itineraries: (i) an island we own in the bahamas which we call cococay; and (ii) labadee, a secluded peninsula we lease on the north coast of haiti. item 3. legal proceedings we are routinely involved in claims typical within the cruise vacation industry. the majority of these claims are covered by insurance. we believe the outcome of such claims, net of expected insurance recoveries, will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations and cash flows. item 4. mine safety disclosures none. 33 table of contents part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities market information our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange ("nyse") under the symbol "rcl." the table below sets forth the high and low sales prices of our common stock as reported by the nyse for the two most recent years by quarter: nyse common stock high low 2017 fourth quarter $133.75 $117.55 third quarter $125.00 $107.79 second quarter $115.63 $93.86 first quarter $101.11 $82.72 2016 fourth quarter $86.84 $67.53 third quarter $75.72 $65.10 second quarter $84.56 $64.95 first quarter $99.81 $64.21 holders as of february 12, 2018 , there were 1,529 record holders of our common stock. since certain of our shares are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of shareholders, the foregoing number is not representative of the number of beneficial owners. dividends in 2016 , we declared cash dividends on our common stock of $0.375 per share during the first and second quarters of 2016 . we increased the dividend amount to $0.48 per share for the dividends declared in the third and fourth quarters of 2016 and the first and second quarters of 2017 . the dividend amount was increased to $0.60 per share for the dividends declared in the third and fourth quarters of 2017 . holders of our common stock have an equal right to share in our profits in the form of dividends when and if declared by our board of directors out of funds legally available. holders of our common stock have no rights to any sinking fund. there are no exchange control restrictions on remittances of dividends on our common stock since (1) we are and intend to maintain our status as a nonresident liberian entity under the liberia revenue code of 2000 as amended and the regulations thereunder, and (2) our ship-owning subsidiaries are not now engaged, and are not in the future expected to engage, in any business in liberia, including voyages exclusively within the territorial waters of the republic of liberia. under current liberian law, no liberian taxes or withholding will be imposed on payments to holders of our securities other than to a holder that is a resident liberian entity or a resident individual or an individual or entity subject to taxation in liberia as a result of having a permanent establishment within the meaning of the liberia revenue code of 2000 as amended in liberia. the declaration of dividends shall at all times be subject to the final determination of our board of directors that a dividend is prudent at that time in consideration of the needs of the business. 34 table of contents share repurchases the following table presents the total number of shares of our common stock that we repurchased during the quarter ended december 31, 2017: period total number of shares purchased average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs (1) approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs october 1, 2017 - october 31, 2017 $375,000,000 november 1, 2017 - november 30, 2017 275,647 $124.05 275,647 $341,000,000 december 1, 2017 - december 31, 2017 526,470 $124.96 526,470 $275,000,000 total 802,117 802,117 ___________________________________________________________________ (1) on april 28, 2017, we announced that our board of directors authorized a 12-month common stock repurchase program for up to $500 million. the timing and number of shares to be repurchased will depend on a variety of factors including price and market conditions. during the fourth quarter of 2017, we repurchased 0.8 million shares of our common stock for a total of $100 million in open market transactions that were recorded within treasury stock in our consolidated balance sheet. repurchases under the program may be made at management's discretion from time to time on the open market or through privately negotiated transactions. 35 table of contents performance graph the following graph compares the total return, assuming reinvestment of dividends, on an investment in the company, based on performance of the company's common stock, with the total return of the standard &amp; poor's 500 composite stock index and the dow jones united states travel and leisure index for a five year period by measuring the changes in common stock prices from december 31, 2012 to december 31, 2017 . 12/12 12/13 12/14 12/15 12/16 12/17 royal caribbean cruises ltd . 100.00 142.11 251.44 313.65 260.04 385.47 s&amp;p 500 100.00 132.39 150.51 152.59 170.84 208.14 dow jones us travel &amp; leisure 100.00 145.48 169.28 179.27 192.85 238.77 the stock performance graph assumes for comparison that the value of the company's common stock and of each index was $100 on december 31, 2012 and that all dividends were reinvested. past performance is not necessarily an indicator of future results. 36 table of contents item 6. selected financial data the selected consolidated financial data presented below for the years 2013 through 2017 and as of the end of each such year, except for adjusted net income amounts, are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements and should be read in conjunction with those financial statements and the related notes as well as in conjunction with item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . year ended december 31, 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 (in thousands, except per share data) operating data: total revenues $ 8,777,845 $ 8,496,401 $ 8,299,074 $ 8,073,855 $ 7,959,894 operating income $ 1,744,056 $ 1,477,205 $ 874,902 $ 941,859 $ 798,148 net income $ 1,625,133 $ 1,283,388 $ 665,783 $ 764,146 $ 473,692 adjusted net income (1) (2) (3) (4) $ 1,625,133 $ 1,314,689 $ 1,065,066 $ 755,729 $ 539,224 per share data basic: net income $ 7.57 $ 5.96 $ 3.03 $ 3.45 $ 2.16 adjusted net income $ 7.57 $ 6.10 $ 4.85 $ 3.41 $ 2.46 weighted-average shares 214,617 215,393 219,537 221,658 219,638 per share data diluted: net income $ 7.53 $ 5.93 $ 3.02 $ 3.43 $ 2.14 adjusted net income $ 7.53 $ 6.08 $ 4.83 $ 3.39 $ 2.44 weighted-average shares and potentially dilutive shares 215,694 216,316 220,689 223,044 220,941 dividends declared per common share $ 2.16 $ 1.71 $ 1.35 $ 1.10 $ 0.74 balance sheet data: total assets $ 22,296,317 $ 22,310,324 $ 20,782,043 $ 20,524,060 $ 19,915,003 total debt, including capital leases $ 7,539,451 $ 9,387,436 $ 8,527,243 $ 8,254,818 $ 7,916,860 common stock $ 2,352 $ 2,346 $ 2,339 $ 2,331 $ 2,308 total shareholders' equity $ 10,702,303 $ 9,121,412 $ 8,063,039 $ 8,284,359 $ 8,808,265 ___________________________________________________________________ (1) for 2017, 2016 and 2015, refer to financial presentation and results of operations under item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for definition of adjusted net income and reconciliation of adjusted net income to net income. (2) amount for 2017 includes a gain of $30.9 million related to the sale of legend of the seas . (3) amount for 2014 excludes restructuring and related impairment charges of $4.3 million , other initiative costs of $21.2 million , an $11.0 million loss related to the estimated impact of pullmantur's non-core businesses that were sold in 2014 and a loss of $17.4 million recognized on the sale of celebrity century . additionally, the amount for 2014 excludes $28.9 million of net income resulting from the change in our voyage proration methodology and the reversal of a deferred tax asset valuation allowance of $33.5 million due to spanish tax reform. (4) amount for 2013 excludes restructuring and related impairment charges of $56.9 million and an $8.6 million loss related to the estimated impact of pullmantur's non-core businesses that were sold in 2014. 37 table of contents item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations cautionary note concerning forward-looking statements the discussion under this caption "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and elsewhere in this document, including, for example, under the "risk factors" and "business" captions, includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. all statements other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding guidance (including our expectations for the first quarter and full year of 2018 and our earnings and yield estimates for 2018 set forth under the heading "outlook" below), business and industry prospects or future results of operations or financial position, made in this annual report on form 10-k are forward-looking. words such as "anticipate," "believe," "could," "estimate," "expect," "goal," "intend," "may," "plan," "project," "seek," "should," "will," "driving" and similar expressions are intended to further identify any of these forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements reflect management's current expectations but they are based on judgments and are inherently uncertain. furthermore, they are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from the future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied in those forward-looking statements. examples of these risks, uncertainties and other factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this annual report on form 10-k and, in particular, the risks discussed under the caption "risk factors" in part i, item 1a of this report. all forward-looking statements made in this annual report on form 10-k speak only as of the date of this document. given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. overview the discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations have been organized to present the following: a review of our critical accounting policies and of our financial presentation, including discussion of certain operational and financial metrics we utilize to assist us in managing our business; a discussion of our results of operations for the year ended december 31, 2017 compared to the same period in 2016 and the year ended december 31, 2016 compared to the same period in 2015 ; a discussion of our business outlook, including our expectations for selected financial items for the first quarter and full year of 2018 ; and a discussion of our liquidity and capital resources, including our future capital and contractual commitments and potential funding sources. critical accounting policies our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america ("gaap"). (refer to note 1. general and note 2. summary of significant accounting policies to our consolidated financial statements under quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments and other general we are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and fuel prices. we try to mitigate these risks through a combination of our normal operating and financing activities and through the use of derivative financial instruments pursuant to our hedging practices and policies. the financial impact of these hedging instruments is primarily offset by corresponding changes in the underlying exposures being hedged. we achieve this by closely matching the amount, term and conditions of the derivative instrument with the underlying risk being hedged. although certain of our derivative financial instruments do not qualify or are not accounted for under hedge accounting, our objective is not to hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. (refer to note 14. fair value measurements and derivative instruments to our consolidated financial statements underrisk factors 23 risk factors - conducting business globally may result in increased costs and other risks for a discussion of the risks associated with our international operations. cost efficiency, operating expenditures and adequate cash and liquidity we have adopted a number of strategies to control our operating costs and will continue to do so in 2019. for example, we have adopted numerous initiatives to reduce energy consumption and, by extension, fuel costs. these include the design of more energy-efficient ships as well as the implementation of more efficient hardware, including improvements in operations and voyage planning as well as improvements to the propulsion, machinery, hvac and lighting systems. the overall impact of these efforts has resulted in an approximate 30% improvement in energy efficiency from 2005 through 2018 and we believe that our energy consumption per guest is currently the lowest in the cruise industry. in order to sustain our competitive advantage, we will continue to seek to lead with innovative technologies and commit to achieve our short and long-term sustainability goals. we are focused on maintaining a strong liquidity position, investment grade credit metrics and a balanced debt maturity profile. we believe these strategies enhance our ability to achieve our overall goal of maximizing our long-term shareholder value. fleet upgrade, maintenance and expansion we place a strong focus on innovation, which we seek to achieve by introducing new concepts on our new ships and continuously making improvements to our fleet through modernization projects. several of these innovations have become signature elements of our brands. for the royal caribbean international brand, we introduced the royal promenade (a boulevard with shopping, dining and entertainment venues) and, more recently, interior balconies on the oasis class ships and a two-level family suite on symphony of the seas . for the celebrity cruises brand, we enhanced many of the brand's design features through the introduction of the solstice class ships. more recently, with the introduction of celebrity edge , the first ship of a new generation of ships, we introduced the "magic carpet" (a cantilevered, floating platform that reaches a height of 13 stories above sea level and can serve as a dining venue, full bar and platform for live music) and newly designed staterooms with an "infinite veranda" where, with the touch of a button, the entire living space becomes the veranda. in 2018, the royal caribbean international and celebrity cruises brands announced the "royal amplified" and "celebrity revolution" modernization programs to upgrade vessels across their fleet. as part of these modernization programs, we incorporate certain innovations included in our newer ships to some of the ships in the remaining fleet. the process of integrating some of our latest innovations into our older vessels allows us to create a greater level of consistency of product across our fleet. as part of the newbuild and modernization programs, we also seek to bring innovations in the areas of safety, reliability and energy efficiency to our fleet. we are committed to building state-of-the-art ships at a moderate growth rate and we believe our success in this area provides us with a competitive advantage. our newer vessels traditionally generate higher revenue yield premiums and are more efficient to operate than older vessels. as of december 31, 2018 , our global brands and partner brands have 16 ships on order. refer to the operations section below for further information on our ships on order. in addition, we regularly evaluate opportunities to order new ships, purchase existing ships or sell ships in our current fleet. in the current environment of high industry demand, we recently have placed new ship orders earlier than we have historically done as well as more aggressively sought to sell older capacity. 7 table of contents markets and itineraries in an effort to penetrate untapped markets, diversify our consumer base and respond to changing economic and geopolitical market conditions, we continue to seek opportunities to deploy ships to new and stronger markets and itineraries throughout the world. the portability of our ships allows us to deploy our ships to meet demand within our existing cruise markets. we make deployment decisions generally 12 to 18 months in advance, with the goal of optimizing the overall profitability of our portfolio. additionally, the infrastructure investments we have made to create a flexible global sourcing model have made our brands relevant in a number of markets around the world, which allows us to be opportunistic and source the highest yielding guests for our itineraries. our ships offer a wide selection of itineraries that call on more than 1,000 destinations in 126 countries, spanning all seven continents. we are focused on obtaining the best possible long-term shareholder returns by operating in established markets while growing our presence in developing markets. new capacity allows us to expand into new markets and itineraries. our brands have expanded their mix of itineraries while strengthening our ability to further penetrate the asian and australian markets. the recent acquisition of silversea cruises adds more than 500 new destinations allowing us to expand and enhance our selection of exotic itineraries. additionally, in order to provide unique destination experiences to our guests, we are investing in our private land destinations. for instance, in 2018, we announced perfect day island collection , an initiative to develop a series of private island destinations around the world. the first in the collection, perfect day at cococay, is scheduled to open in spring 2019 and will include a wide range of attractions, such as a water park, zip line, wave and freshwater pools and overwater cabanas, to deliver a unique family experience. also, in order to capitalize on the summer season in the southern hemisphere and mitigate the impact of the winter weather in the northern hemisphere, our brands have focused on deployment in the caribbean, asia and australia during that period. in an effort to secure desirable berthing facilities for our ships, and to provide new or enhanced cruise destinations for our guests, we actively assist or invest in the development or enhancement of certain port facilities and infrastructure, including mixed-use commercial properties, located in strategic ports of call. for instance, in late 2018, a new cruise terminal of approximately 170,000 square feet was completed at portmiami in miami, florida, serving as one of our homeports. generally, we collaborate with local, private or governmental entities by providing management and/or financial assistance and often enter into long-term port usage arrangements. our participation in these efforts is generally accomplished via investments with the relevant government authority and/or various other strategic partnerships established to develop and/or operate the port facilities, by providing direct development and management expertise or in certain limited circumstances, by providing direct or indirect financial support. in exchange for our involvement, we generally secure preferential berthing rights for our ships. technological capabilities the need to develop and use innovative technology is increasingly important. technology is a pervasive part of virtually every business process we use to support our strategic focus and provide a quality experience to our customers before, during and after their cruise. in the past year, we have digitalized the guest journey from port check-in and onboard purchases to digital stateroom features. as the use of our various websites, mobile and social media platforms continue to increase both on shore and shipboard by both our guests and crew, we continually invest in our systems, infrastructure and technologies to facilitate this growth. for instance, in 2018, we continued to advance our onboard technology in areas such as internet connectivity at sea, stateroom automation and guest-to-guest chat. additionally, we continue to invest in our distribution channels to ensure the best go-to-market approach, whether through travel partners or direct to customer. commensurate with our destination strategy, we intend to invest in technology to service our guests seamlessly as they transition from ship to our private destinations to enjoy internet connectivity or local activities. cyber security and data privacy are a continued focus, and we have made and will continue to make investments to protect our customer data, intellectual property and global operations. 8 table of contents travel agency support and consumer outreach travel agencies continue to be the primary source of ticket sales for our ships. we believe in the value of this distribution channel and invest in maintaining strong relationships with our travel partners. to accomplish this goal, we seek to ensure that our commission rates and incentive structures remain competitive with the marketplace. we provide brand dedicated sales representatives who serve as advisors to our travel partners. we also provide trained customer service representatives, call centers and online training tools. in addition, we continue to operate our consumer outreach department, which provides consumers 24-hour access to our vacation planners and customer service agents in our call centers. in addition, we maintain and invest in our websites, including mobile applications and mobile websites, which allow guests to directly plan, book and customize their cruise, including the ability to add a variety of onboard amenities. we enable our guests to communicate and book with us through various channels such as phone, web, chat, text message, and/or email. we also have a robust onboard cruise sales department to help guests to book their next cruise vacations while onboard our ships. guest services we offer to handle virtually all travel aspects related to guest reservations and transportation, including arranging guest pre- and post-hotel stay arrangements and air transportation. royal caribbean international, celebrity cruises, azamara club cruises and silversea cruises offer rewards to their guests through their loyalty programs, crown &amp; anchor society, captain's club, le club voyage and venetian society, respectively, to encourage repeat business. crown &amp; anchor society has approximately 13 million members worldwide. captain's club, le club voyage and venetian society have approximately 4.5 million members combined worldwide. members are recognized through increasing membership status by accumulating cruise points or credits, depending on the brand, which may be redeemed on future sailings. members are awarded points or credits in proportion to the number of cruise days and stateroom category. the loyalty programs provide tiers of membership benefits which entitle guests to upgraded experiences and rewards relative to the status achieved once the guests have accumulated the number of cruise points or credits specified for each tier. in addition, upon achieving a certain level of cruise points or credits, members benefit from reciprocal membership benefits across all of our loyalty programs. examples of the rewards available under our loyalty programs include, but are not limited to, priority ship embarkation, priority waitlist for shore excursions, complimentary laundry service, complimentary internet, booklets with onboard discount offers, upgraded bathroom amenities, private seating on the pool deck, ship tours and, in the case of our most loyal guests who have achieved the highest levels of cruise points or credits, complimentary cruise days. we regularly work to enhance each of our loyalty programs by adding new features and amenities in order to reward our repeat guests. 9 table of contents operations cruise ships and itineraries as of december 31, 2018 , our global brands and partner brands collectively operated 60 ships with a selection of worldwide itineraries that call on more than 1,000 destinations. the following table presents summary information concerning the ships we expect to operate in 2019 under our global brands and partner brands and their geographic areas of operation based on current 2019 itineraries (subject to change). ship year ship built year ship entered/will enter service (1) approximate berths primary areas of operation royal caribbean international spectrum of the seas 2019 2019 4,250 eastern asia symphony of the seas 2018 2018 5,500 eastern/western caribbean harmony of the seas 2016 2016 5,450 eastern/western caribbean ovation of the seas 2016 2016 4,100 australia, alaska anthem of the seas 2015 2015 4,150 southern caribbean, bahamas, bermuda, canada quantum of the seas 2014 2014 4,150 eastern asia allure of the seas 2010 2010 5,450 eastern/western caribbean oasis of the seas 2009 2009 5,450 eastern/western caribbean, europe independence of the seas 2008 2008 3,850 western caribbean, europe liberty of the seas 2007 2007 3,750 western caribbean freedom of the seas 2006 2006 3,750 southern caribbean jewel of the seas 2004 2004 2,150 western/southern caribbean, europe, middle east mariner of the seas 2003 2003 3,300 bahamas serenade of the seas 2003 2003 2,100 eastern/southern caribbean, bermuda, canada navigator of the seas 2002 2002 3,250 western/southern caribbean, bahamas brilliance of the seas 2002 2002 2,100 western caribbean, europe adventure of the seas 2001 2001 3,300 eastern/western caribbean, bahamas, canada radiance of the seas 2001 2001 2,100 australia, alaska explorer of the seas 2000 2000 3,250 australia, europe, western/southern caribbean voyager of the seas 1999 1999 3,250 eastern asia, australia vision of the seas 1998 1998 2,000 western/southern caribbean, europe enchantment of the seas 1997 1997 2,250 western caribbean rhapsody of the seas 1997 1997 2,000 western caribbean, europe grandeur of the seas 1996 1996 1,950 bahamas, southern caribbean, bermuda, canada majesty of the seas 1992 1992 2,350 western caribbean, cuba empress of the seas 1990 2016 1,550 cuba celebrity cruises celebrity flora 2019 2019 100 galapagos islands celebrity edge 2018 2018 2,900 eastern/western caribbean, europe celebrity reflection 2012 2012 3,000 southern caribbean, europe 10 table of contents ship year ship built year ship entered/will enter service (1) approximate berths primary areas of operation celebrity silhouette 2011 2011 2,850 southern caribbean, europe celebrity eclipse 2010 2010 2,850 south america, alaska celebrity equinox 2009 2009 2,850 eastern/western caribbean celebrity solstice 2008 2008 2,850 australia, alaska celebrity xploration 2007 2016 20 galapagos islands celebrity constellation 2002 2002 2,150 middle east, india, europe celebrity summit 2001 2001 2,150 southern caribbean, bermuda, canada celebrity infinity 2001 2001 2,150 western caribbean, bahamas, europe celebrity xpedition 2001 2004 100 galapagos islands celebrity millennium 2000 2000 2,150 eastern asia, alaska celebrity xperience 1982 2016 50 galapagos islands azamara club cruises azamara pursuit 2001 2018 700 south america, europe azamara quest 2000 2007 700 australia, asia, alaska azamara journey 2000 2007 700 cuba, europe silversea cruises muse 2017 2017 550 australia, asia, alaska spirit 2009 2009 600 southern caribbean, europe, asia whisper 2001 2001 350 southern caribbean, europe shadow 2000 2000 350 asia, europe, southern caribbean wind 1995 1995 250 southern caribbean, europe, canada cloud 1994 1994 250 south america, europe galapagos 1990 2013 100 galapagos islands discoverer 1989 2014 100 africa, australia, asia explorer 1989 2008 100 south america, europe pullmantur zenith 1992 2014 1,400 europe monarch 1991 2013 2,350 southern caribbean horizon 1990 2010 1,400 middle east, europe sovereign 1988 2008 2,300 south america, europe tui cruises mein schiff 2 (2) 2019 2019 2,850 europe, southern caribbean mein schiff 1 (3) 2018 2018 2,850 europe, canada, western caribbean mein schiff 6 2017 2017 2,500 western caribbean, europe, asia mein schiff 5 2016 2016 2,500 southern caribbean, europe, middle east mein schiff 4 2015 2015 2,500 middle east, europe mein schiff 3 2014 2014 2,500 asia, europe mein schiff herz 1997 2011 1,900 europe total 142,720 __________________________________________________________________ (1) the year a ship entered service refers to the year in which the ship commenced or is expected to commence cruise revenue operations for the brand. (2) tui cruises' newbuild entered service as mein schiff 2 in february 2019 and the existing mein schiff 2 was renamed mein schiff herz . (3) tui cruises' newbuild entered service as mein schiff 1 and the existing mein schiff 1 , not included above, was transferred to an affiliate of tui ag, our joint venture partner in tui cruises. 11 table of contents as of december 31, 2018 , our global brands and our partner brands have 16 ships on order. two ships on order are being built in germany by meyer werft gmbh, four are being built in finland by meyer turku shipyard, four are being built in france by chantiers de l'atlantique (formerly known as stx france), four are being built in italy by fincantieri and two are being built in the netherlands by de hoop lobith. as of december 31, 2018 , the expected dates that the ships on order will enter service and their approximate berths are as follows: ship expected to enter service approximate berths royal caribbean international oasis-class: unnamed 2nd quarter 2021 5,500 quantum-class: spectrum of the seas 2nd quarter 2019 4,250 odyssey of the seas 4th quarter 2020 4,250 icon-class: unnamed 2nd quarter 2022 5,650 unnamed 2nd quarter 2024 5,650 celebrity cruises edge-class: celebrity apex 2nd quarter 2020 2,900 unnamed 4th quarter 2021 3,200 unnamed 4th quarter 2022 3,200 celebrity flora 2nd quarter 2019 100 silversea cruises silver origin 1st quarter 2020 100 silver moon 3rd quarter 2020 550 silver dawn 3rd quarter 2021 550 tui cruises (50% joint venture) mein schiff 2 (1) 1st quarter 2019 2,850 mein schiff 7 2nd quarter 2023 2,850 unnamed 3rd quarter 2024 4,100 unnamed 1st quarter 2026 4,100 total berths 49,800 ___________________________________________________________________ (1) tui cruises' newbuild entered service as mein schiff 2 in february 2019. in addition, in september 2018, silversea cruises signed a memorandum of understanding with meyer werft to build two ships of a new generation of ships. the ships are expected to have an aggregate capacity of approximately 1,200 berths and are expected to enter service in 2022 and 2023, respectively. the memorandum of understanding with meyer werft is contingent upon the completion of final documentation and financing, which are expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2019. in february 2019, we entered into an agreement with chantiers de l'atlantique to build the sixth oasis-class ship for royal caribbean international. the ship is expected to have an aggregate capacity of approximately 5,700 berths and is expected to enter service in the fourth quarter of 2023. the order with chantiers de l'atlantique is contingent upon completion of conditions precedent and financing, which is expected to be completed in 2019. 12 table of contents seasonality our revenues are seasonal based on the demand for cruises. demand is strongest for cruises during the northern hemisphere's summer months and holidays. in order to mitigate the impact of the winter weather in the northern hemisphere and to capitalize on the summer season in the southern hemisphere, our brands have focused on deployment in the caribbean, asia and australia during that period. passengers and capacity selected statistical information is shown in the following table (see financial presentation - description of certain line items and selected operational and financial metrics under item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , for definitions): year ended december 31, 2018 (1) 2017 2016 (2) 2015 2014 passengers carried 6,084,201 5,768,496 5,754,747 5,401,899 5,149,952 passenger cruise days 41,853,052 40,033,527 40,250,557 38,523,060 36,710,966 available passenger cruise days (apcd) 38,425,304 36,930,939 37,844,644 36,646,639 34,773,915 occupancy 108.9% 108.4% 106.4% 105.1% 105.6% ___________________________________________________________________ (1) these amounts include only august and september 2018 amounts for silversea cruises due to the three-month reporting lag. refer to note 1. general and note 3. business combination to our consolidated financial statements under item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for more information on the three-month reporting lag and the silversea cruises acquisition. (2) these amounts do not include november and december 2015 amounts for pullmantur as the net pullmantur result for those months was included within other expense in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss) for the year ended december 31, 2016, as a result of the elimination of the pullmantur two-month reporting lag, and did not affect gross yields, net yields, gross cruise costs, net cruise costs and net cruise costs excluding fuel. additionally, effective august 2016, we no longer include pullmantur in these amounts. cruise pricing our cruise ticket prices include accommodations and a wide variety of activities and amenities, including meals and entertainment. prices vary depending on many factors including the destination, cruise length, stateroom category selected and the time of year the cruise takes place. although we grant credit terms in select markets mainly outside of the united states, our payment terms generally require an upfront deposit to confirm a reservation, with the balance due prior to the sailing. our cruises are generally available for sale at least one year in advance and often more than two years in advance of sailing. during the selling period of a cruise, we continually monitor and adjust our cruise ticket prices for available guest staterooms based on demand, with the objective of maximizing net yields. as we grow our business globally, our sale arrangements with travel agents may vary. for instance, although our direct business is growing at a rapid pace, sale arrangements through travel agent charter and group sales are proportionately higher in the china market than in our other markets which are primarily through retail agency and direct sales. we have developed and implemented enhancements to our reservations system that provide us and our travel partners with additional capabilities, making it easier to do business with us. we offer air transportation to our guests through our air transportation program available in major cities around the world. generally, air tickets are sold to guests at prices close to cost which vary by gateway and destination. passenger ticket revenues accounted for approximately 72% of total revenues in 2018 , 2017 and 2016 . onboard activities and other revenues our cruise brands offer modern fleets with a wide array of onboard services, amenities and activities which vary by brand and ship. while many onboard activities are included in the base price of a cruise, we realize additional revenues from, among other things, gaming, the sale of alcoholic and other beverages, internet and other telecommunication services, gift shop items, shore excursions, photography, spa/salon and fitness services, art auctions, 13 table of contents retail shops and a wide variety of specialty restaurants and dining options. many of these services are available for pre-booking prior to embarkation. these activities are provided either directly by us or by independent concessionaires from which we receive a percentage of their revenues. in conjunction with our cruise vacations, we offer pre- and post-cruise hotel packages to our royal caribbean international, celebrity cruises, azamara club cruises, and silversea cruises guests. we also offer cruise vacation protection coverage to guests in a number of markets, which provides guests with coverage for trip cancellation, medical protection and baggage protection. onboard and other revenues accounted for approximately 28% of total revenues in 2018 , 2017 and 2016 . segment reporting we control and operate four cruise brands, royal caribbean international, celebrity cruises, azamara club cruises, and silversea cruises. in addition, we have a 50% investment in a joint venture with tui ag which operates the german brand tui cruises, a 49% interest in the spanish brand pullmantur and a 36% interest in the chinese brand skysea cruises, which ceased cruising operations in september 2018. we believe our brands possess the versatility to enter multiple cruise market segments within the cruise vacation industry. although each of our brands has its own marketing style as well as ships and crews of various sizes, the nature of the products sold and services delivered by our brands share a common base (i.e., the sale and provision of cruise vacations). our brands also have similar itineraries as well as similar cost and revenue components. in addition, our brands source passengers from similar markets around the world and operate in similar economic environments with a significant degree of commercial overlap. as a result, our brands have been aggregated as a single reportable segment based on the similarity of their economic characteristics, types of consumers, regulatory environment, maintenance requirements, supporting systems and processes as well as products and services provided. our chairman and chief executive officer has been identified as the chief operating decision-maker and all significant operating decisions including the allocation of resources are based upon the analyses of the company as one segment. ( for financial information, see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data .) employees as of december 31, 2018 , our global brands employed approximately 77,000 employees, including 70,000 shipboard employees as well as 7,000 full-time and 100 part-time employees in our shoreside operations. as of december 31, 2018 , approximately 89% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. insurance we maintain insurance on the hull and machinery of our ships, with insured values generally equal to the net book value of each ship. this coverage is maintained with reputable insurance underwriters from the british, scandinavian, french, united states and other reputable international insurance markets. we are members of four protection and indemnity ("p&amp;i") clubs, which are part of a worldwide group of 13 p&amp;i clubs, known as the international group of p&amp;i clubs (the ig ). liabilities, costs and expenses for illness and injury to crew, guest injury, pollution and other third-party claims in connection with our cruise activities are covered by our p&amp;i clubs, subject to the clubs' rules and the limits of coverage determined by the ig. p&amp;i coverage provided by the clubs is on a mutual basis and we are subject to additional premium calls in the event of a catastrophic loss incurred by any member of the 13 p&amp;i clubs, whereby the reinsurance limits purchased by the ig are exhausted. we are also subject to additional premium calls based on investment and underwriting shortfalls experienced by our own individual insurers. we maintain war risk insurance for legal liability to crew, guests and other third parties as well as for loss or damage to our vessels arising from acts of war, including invasion, insurrection, terrorism, rebellion, piracy and hijacking. our primary war risk coverage is provided by a norwegian war risk insurance association and our excess war risk insurance is provided by our four p&amp;i clubs. consistent with most marine war risk policies, our coverage is subject to cancellation in the event of a change in risk. in the event of a war between major powers, our primary policies terminate after thirty days' notice and our excess policies terminate immediately. our excess policies are also subject to cancellation after a notice period of seven days in the event of other changes in risk. these notice periods allow for premiums to be renegotiated based on changes in risk. 14 table of contents insurance coverage for other exposures, such as shoreside property and casualty, passenger off-vessel, directors and officers and network security and privacy, are maintained with various global insurance companies. we do not carry business interruption insurance for our ships based on our evaluation of the risks involved and protective measures already in place, as compared to the cost of insurance. all insurance coverage is subject to certain limitations, exclusions and deductible levels. in addition, in certain circumstances, we either self-insure or co-insure a portion of these risks. premiums charged by insurance carriers, including carriers in the maritime insurance industry, increase or decrease from time to time and tend to be cyclical in nature. these cycles are impacted both by our own loss experience and by losses incurred in direct and reinsurance markets. we historically have been able to obtain insurance coverage in amounts and at premiums we have deemed to be commercially acceptable. no assurance can be given that affordable and secure insurance markets will be available to us in the future, particularly for war risk insurance. trademarks we own a number of registered trademarks related to the royal caribbean international, celebrity cruises, azamara club cruises and silversea cruises cruise brands. the registered trademarks include the name royal caribbean international and its crown and anchor logo, the name celebrity cruises and its x logo, the name azamara club cruises and its globe with an a logo, the name silversea cruises and its logo, and the names of various cruise ships, as well as loyalty program names, ship venues and other marketing programs. we believe our largest brands' trademarks are widely recognized throughout the world and have considerable value. the duration of trademark registrations varies from country to country. however, trademarks are generally valid and may be renewed indefinitely as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained. regulation our ships are regulated by various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties in force in the jurisdictions in which they operate. in addition, our ships are registered in the bahamas, malta or in the case of our ships operating in the galapagos islands, ecuador. each ship is subject to regulations issued by its country of registry, including regulations issued pursuant to international treaties governing the safety of our ships, guests and crew as well as environmental protection. each country of registry conducts periodic inspections to verify compliance with these regulations as discussed more fully below. ships operating out of ports of call around the world are also subject to inspection by the maritime authorities of that country for compliance with international treaties and local regulations. additionally, ships operating out of the united states ports are subject to inspection by the united states coast guard for compliance with international treaties and by the united states public health service for sanitary and health conditions. our ships are also subject to similar inspections pursuant to the laws and regulations of various other countries our ships visit. we believe that we are in material compliance with all the regulations applicable to our ships and that we have all licenses necessary to conduct our business. health, safety, security, environmental and financial responsibility issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant government authorities in the united states and internationally. from time to time, various regulatory and legislative changes may be proposed that could impact our operations and subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. safety and security regulations our ships are required to comply with international safety standards defined in the international convention for safety of life at sea ( solas ), which, among other things, establishes requirements for ship design, structural features, materials, construction, lifesaving equipment and safe management and operation of ships to ensure guest and crew safety. the solas standards are revised from time to time and changes are incorporated into the operation of our ships. compliance with these modified standards have not historically had a material effect on our operating costs. solas incorporates the international safety management code ( ism code ), which provides an international standard for the safe management and operation of ships and for pollution prevention. the ism code is mandatory for all vessels, including passenger vessel operators. all of our operations and ships are regularly audited by various national authorities, and we are required to maintain the relevant certificates of compliance with the ism code. 15 table of contents our ships are subject to various security requirements, including the international ship and port facility security code ( isps code ), which is part of solas, and the u.s. maritime transportation security act of 2002 ( mtsa ), which applies to ships that operate in u.s. ports. in order to satisfy these security requirements, we implement security measures, conduct vessel security assessments, and develop security plans. the security plans for all of our ships have been submitted to and approved by the respective countries of registry for our ships in compliance with the isps code and the mtsa. the cruise vessel security and safety act of 2010, which applies to passenger vessels which embark or include port stops within the united states, requires the implementation of certain safety design features as well as the establishment of practices for the reporting of and dealing with allegations of crime. the cruise industry supported this legislation and we believe that our internal standards are generally as strict or stricter than the law requires. a few provisions of the law call for regulations which have not yet been finalized. we do not expect the proposed regulations will have a material impact to our operations. environmental regulations we are subject to various international and national laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. under such laws and regulations, we are generally prohibited from discharging materials other than food waste into the waterways. we have made, and will continue to make, capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations. from time to time, environmental and other regulators consider more stringent regulations, which may affect our operations and increase our compliance costs. we believe that the impact of ships on the global environment will continue to be an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world and, accordingly, may subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future, including the items described below. our ships are subject to the international maritime organization's ( imo'') regulations under the international convention for the prevention of pollution from ships (the marpol regulations'') and the international convention for the control and management of ships ballast water and sediments (ballast water management convention), which includes requirements designed to minimize pollution by oil, sewage, garbage, air emissions and the transfer of non-native/non-indigenous species. we have obtained the relevant international compliance certificates relating to oil, sewage, air pollution prevention and ballast water for all of our ships. the marpol regulations impose global limitations on the sulfur content of emissions emitted by ships operating worldwide to 3.5%, which will be further reduced to 0.5% beginning in january 2020 . we do not expect this reduced limitation will have a material impact to our results of operations largely due to a number of mitigating steps we have taken over the last several years, including equipping all of our new ships delivered during or after 2014 with advanced emissions purification ("aep") systems covering all engines and actively developing and testing aep systems on the majority of our remaining fleet. the marpol regulations also establish special emission control areas ( ecas'') with stringent limitations on sulfur emissions in these areas. there are four established ecas that restrict sulfur emissions: the baltic sea, the north sea/english channel, certain waters surrounding the north american coast, and the waters surrounding puerto rico and the u.s. virgin islands (the caribbean eca ). ships operating in these sulfur ecas have been required to reduce their emissions sulfur content from 1.0% to 0.1%. this reduction has not had a significant impact on our results of operations to date due to the mitigating steps described above. we continue to implement our aep system strategy both for our ships on order and for the majority of the ships on our fleet. as our new ships are delivered, they will provide us with additional operational and deployment flexibility. from 2014 to 2017, we had in place exemptions for 19 of our ships which applied while they were sailing in the north american and caribbean ecas. these exemptions delayed the requirement to comply with the additional sulfur content reduction pending our continued development and deployment of aep systems on these ships. by the end of 2018, we completed installations on all ships covered by the exemptions. we believe that the learning from our existing endeavors as well as our further efforts with regards to this technology will allow us to continue an effective aep system retrofit strategy for our fleet. all new ships that began construction after january 1, 2016 are required to meet more stringent nitrogen oxide emission limits when operating within the north american and u.s. caribbean sea eca. we comply with these rules 16 table of contents for those relevant ships in service. all of our ships under construction are being built to comply with these rules. these rules have not had and are not expected to have a significant impact to our operations or costs. effective july 1, 2015, the european commission adopted legislation that requires cruise ship operators with ships visiting ports in the european union to monitor and report on the ship's annual carbon dioxide emissions starting in 2018. compliance with this regulation did not have a material impact to our costs or results of operations in 2018. additionally, in 2019, the imo's monitoring and reporting system (imo data and collection system), which is applicable to all ship itineraries, will enter into force. while we do not expect compliance with either of these regulations to materially impact our costs or results of operations, the legislations both present the new monitoring and reporting requirements as the first step of a staged approach, which could ultimately result in additional costs or charges associated with carbon dioxide emissions. the imo ballast water management convention, which came in effect in 2017, requires ships that carry and discharge ballast water to meet specific discharge standards by installing ballast water treatment systems within the next five years. compliance with this regulation has not had a material effect on our results of operations and we do not expect the continuing compliance with this regulation to have a material effect on our results of operations. refer to item 1a. risk factors - "environmental, labor, health and safety, financial responsibility and other maritime regulations could affect operations and increase costs" for further discussion of the risks associated with the regulations discussed above . consumer financial responsibility regulations we are required to obtain certificates from the united states federal maritime commission relating to our ability to satisfy liability in cases of non-performance of obligations to guests, as well as casualty and personal injury. as a condition to obtaining the required certificates, we generally arrange through our insurers for the provision of surety for our ship-operating companies. the required amount is currently $30.0 million per operator and is subject to additional consumer price index based adjustments. we are also required by the united kingdom, norway, finland and the baltics to establish our financial responsibility for any liability resulting from the non-performance of our obligations to guests from these jurisdictions. in the united kingdom we are currently required by the association of british travel agents to provide performance bonds totaling approximately 74 million . the norwegian travel guarantee fund requires us to maintain performance bonds in varying amounts during the course of the year to cover our financial responsibility in norway, finland and the baltics. these amounts ranged from nok 44 million to nok 116 million during 2018 . certain other jurisdictions also require that we establish financial responsibility to our guests resulting from the non-performance of our obligations; however, the related amounts do not have a material effect on our costs. taxation of the company the following is a summary of our principal taxes, exemptions and special regimes. in addition to or instead of income taxation, virtually all jurisdictions where our ships call impose some tax or fee, or both, based on guest headcount, tonnage or some other measure. we also collect and remit value added tax (vat) or sales tax in many jurisdictions where we operate. our consolidated operations are primarily foreign corporations engaged in the owning and operating of passenger cruise ships in international transportation. u.s. income taxation the following is a discussion of the application of the u.s. federal and state income tax laws to us and is based on the current provisions of the u.s. internal revenue code, treasury department regulations, administrative rulings, court decisions and the relevant state tax laws, regulations, rulings and court decisions of the states where we have business operations. all of the foregoing is subject to change, and any such change could affect the accuracy of this discussion. 17 table of contents application of section 883 of the internal revenue code we, celebrity cruises, inc. and silversea cruises ltd. are engaged in a trade or business in the united states, and many of our ship-owning subsidiaries, depending upon the itineraries of their ships, receive income from sources within the united states. additionally, our united kingdom tonnage tax company is a ship-operating company classified as a disregarded entity for u.s. federal income tax purposes that may earn u.s. source income. under section 883 of the internal revenue code, certain foreign corporations may exclude from gross income (and effectively from branch profits tax as such earnings do not give rise to effectively connected earnings and profits) u.s. source income derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, including income from the leasing of such ships. a foreign corporation will qualify for the benefits of section 883 if, in relevant part: (1) the foreign country in which the foreign corporation is organized grants an equivalent exemption to corporations organized in the united states; and (2) the stock of the corporation (or the direct or indirect corporate parent thereof) is primarily and regularly traded on an established securities market in the united states. in the opinion of our u.s. tax counsel, drinker biddle &amp; reath llp, based on the representations and assumptions set forth in that opinion, we, celebrity cruises inc., and our ship-owning subsidiaries with u.s. source shipping income qualify for the benefits of section 883 because we and each of those subsidiaries are incorporated in liberia, which is a qualifying country, and our common stock is primarily and regularly traded on an established securities market in the united states (i.e., we are a "publicly traded" corporation). in addition, in the opinion of drinker biddle and reath llp, based on the representations and assumptions set forth in that opinion, silversea cruises ltd. and its ship-owning subsidiaries with u.s. source shipping income qualify for the benefits of section 883 because silversea cruises ltd. and each of those subsidiaries is incorporated in bahamas, which is a qualifying country, and more than 50% of silversea cruises ltd.'s shares were indirectly owned (through a number of intermediary non u.s. companies) by a qualifying individual, and such individual and intermediary entities have complied with the relevant document requirements. if, in the future, (1) liberia or bahamas no longer qualify as equivalent exemption jurisdictions, and we do not reincorporate in a jurisdiction that does qualify for the exemption, or (2) we fail to qualify as a publicly traded corporation, we and all of our ship-owning or operating subsidiaries that rely on section 883 to exclude qualifying income from gross income would be subject to u.s. federal income tax on their u.s. source shipping income and income from activities incidental thereto. we believe that most of our income and the income of our ship-owning subsidiaries, including our u.k. tonnage tax company which is considered a division for u.s. tax purposes, is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships and, therefore, is exempt from taxation under section 883. regulations under section 883 list activities that are not considered by the internal revenue service to be incidental to the international operation of ships including the sale of air and land transportation, shore excursions and pre- and post-cruise tours. our income from these activities that is earned from sources within the united states will be subject to u.s. taxation. taxation in the absence of an exemption under section 883 if we, the operator of our vessels, celebrity cruises inc., silversea cruises ltd., or our ship-owning subsidiaries were to fail to meet the requirements of section 883 of the internal revenue code, or if the provision was repealed, then, as explained below, such companies would be subject to u.s. income taxation on a portion of their income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships. because we, celebrity cruises inc. and silversea cruises ltd. conduct a trade or business in the united states, we, celebrity cruises inc. and silversea cruises ltd. would be taxable at regular corporate rates on our separate company taxable income (i.e., without regard to the income of our ship-owning subsidiaries) on income which is effectively connected with our u.s. trade or business (generally only income from u.s. sources). in addition, if any of our earnings and profits effectively connected with our u.s. trade or business were withdrawn, or were deemed to have been withdrawn, from our u.s. trade or business, those withdrawn amounts would be subject to a branch profits tax at the rate of 30%. we, celebrity cruises inc. and silversea cruises ltd. would also be potentially subject to tax on portions of certain interest paid by us at rates of up to 30%. if section 883 were not available to our ship-owning subsidiaries, each such subsidiary would be subject to a 18 table of contents special 4% tax on its u.s. source gross transportation income, if any, each year because it does not have a fixed place of business in the united states and its income is derived from the leasing of a ship. other united states taxation we, celebrity cruises inc. and silversea cruises ltd. earn u.s. source income from activities not considered incidental to international shipping. the tax on such income is not material to our results of operation for all years presented. state taxation we, celebrity cruises inc., silversea cruises ltd. and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to various u.s. state income taxes which are generally imposed on each state's portion of the u.s. source income subject to federal income taxes. additionally, the state of alaska subjects an allocated portion of the total income of companies doing business in alaska and certain other affiliated companies to alaska corporate state income taxes and also imposes a 33% tax on adjusted gross income from onboard gambling activities conducted in alaska waters. this did not have a material impact to our results of operations for all years presented. 2017 tax cuts and jobs act on december 22, 2017, the tax cuts and jobs act was signed into law. among other things, the new legislation reduced the federal corporate income tax rate to 21% from 35%, resulting in an immaterial benefit in 2017 related to the reduction of our u.s. deferred tax liability. although there are a number of provisions which apply to us, there was no material impact to our overall tax expense as a result of the legislation. maltese and spanish income taxation effective july 31, 2016, we sold 51% of our interest in pullmantur holdings s.l. ("pullmantur holdings"), the parent company of the pullmantur brand. we account for our retained investment under the equity method of accounting. there was no tax impact to us as a result of this sale transaction. the surviving pullmantur company continues to be subject to the tax laws of spain and malta, among others. under the sale agreement, we remain responsible for pre-sale tax matters with respect to years that are still open under the statute of limitations. united kingdom income taxation during the year ended december 31, 2018 , we operated 16 ships under the united kingdom tonnage tax regime ( u.k. tonnage tax ). companies subject to u.k. tonnage tax pay a corporate tax on a notional profit determined with reference to the net tonnage of qualifying vessels. the requirements for a company to qualify for the u.k. tonnage tax regime include being subject to u.k. corporate income tax, operating qualifying ships, which are strategically and commercially managed in the united kingdom, and fulfilling a seafarer training requirement. relevant shipping profits include income from the operation of qualifying ships and from shipping related activities. our u.k. income from non-shipping activities which do not qualify under the u.k. tonnage tax regime and which are not considered significant, remain subject to regular u.k. corporate income tax. brazilian income taxation previously, pullmantur and our u.k. tonnage tax company chartered certain ships to brazilian subsidiary companies for operations in brazil. both pullmantur and royal caribbean international ceased charters to brazilian subsidiary companies in january 2016 and march 2016, respectively. while brazilian charters took place, the brazilian subsidiaries' earnings were subject to brazilian taxation which was not considered significant. the charter payments made to the u.k. tonnage tax company and to pullmantur were exempt from brazilian income tax under brazilian 19 table of contents domestic law. additionally, remittances of revenue from sales of certain cruises in the brazilian market are subject to taxation. chinese taxation our u.k. tonnage tax company operates ships in international transportation in china. the income earned from this operation is exempt from taxation in china under the u.k./china double tax treaty and other circulars addressing indirect taxes. changes to or failure to qualify for the treaty or circular could cause us to lose the benefits provided which would have a material impact on our results of operations. our chinese income from non-shipping activities or from shipping activities not qualifying for treaty or circular protection and which are considered insignificant, remain subject to chinese taxation. other taxation we and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to value-added and other indirect taxes most of which are reclaimable, zero-rated or exempt. website access to reports we make available, free of charge, access to our annual reports, all quarterly and current reports and all amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission through our website at www.rclcorporate.com . the information contained on our website is not a part of any of these reports and is not incorporated by reference herein. 20 table of contents executive officers of the company as of february 22, 2019 , our executive officers are: name age position richard d. fain 71 chairman, chief executive officer and director jason t. liberty 43 executive vice president, chief financial officer michael w. bayley 60 president and chief executive officer, royal caribbean international lisa lutoff-perlo 61 president and chief executive officer, celebrity cruises lawrence pimentel 67 president and chief executive officer, azamara club cruises harri u. kulovaara 66 executive vice president, maritime bradley h. stein 63 senior vice president, general counsel, chief compliance officer henry l. pujol 51 senior vice president, chief accounting officer richard d. fain has served as a director since 1981 and as our chairman and chief executive officer since 1988. mr. fain is a recognized industry leader, having participated in shipping for over 40 years and having held a number of prominent industry positions, such as chairman of the cruise lines international association (clia), the largest cruise industry trade association. he currently serves as chairman of the university of miami board of trustees as well as serving on the national board of the posse foundation. he is also former chairman of the miami business forum, the greater miami convention and visitors bureau, and the united way of miami-dade. jason t. liberty has been employed by the company since 2005 and has served as chief financial officer since may 2013. from may 2013 to february 2017, he served as senior vice president and chief financial officer, and from february 2017 to may 2018, mr. liberty served as executive vice president and chief financial officer, in each case overseeing the company's treasury, accounting, corporate, strategic and revenue planning, corporate development, deployment, internal audit and investor relations functions. since may 2018, in addition to the above functions, he has also overseen the company's information technology, supply chain, risk management, legal and port operations functions. prior to his role as chief financial officer, mr. liberty served as senior vice president, strategy and finance from september 2012 through may 2013, overseeing the company's corporate and strategic planning, treasury, investor relations and deployment functions. prior to this, mr. liberty served, from 2010 through 2012, as vice president of corporate and revenue planning and, from 2008 to 2010, as vice president of corporate and strategic planning. before joining royal caribbean, mr. liberty was a senior manager at the international public accounting firm of kpmg llp. michael w. bayley has served as president and chief executive officer of royal caribbean international since december 2014. prior to this, he served as president and chief executive officer of celebrity cruises since august 2012. mr. bayley has been employed by royal caribbean for over 30 years, having started as an assistant purser onboard one of the company's ships. he has served in a number of roles including as executive vice president, operations from february 2012 until august 2012. other positions mr. bayley has held include executive vice president, international from may 2010 until february 2012; senior vice president, international from december 2007 to may 2010; senior vice president, hotel operations for royal caribbean international; and chairman and managing director of island cruises. lisa lutoff-perlo has served as president and chief executive officer of celebrity cruises since december 2014. prior to this, she served as executive vice president, operations for royal caribbean international from september 2012 to december 2014, where she was responsible for all of royal caribbean international's hotel, marine and port operations. ms. lutoff-perlo has been employed with the company since 1985 in a variety of positions within both celebrity cruises and royal caribbean international. she started at royal caribbean international as district sales manager for new england and from august 2008 to august 2012 she was responsible for celebrity cruises' hotel operation. 21 table of contents lawrence pimentel has served as president and chief executive officer of azamara club cruises since july 2009. from 2001 until january 2009, mr. pimentel was president, chief executive officer, director and co-owner of seadream yacht club, a privately held luxury cruise line located in miami, florida with two yacht-style ships that sailed primarily in the caribbean and mediterranean. from april 1991 to february 2001, mr. pimentel was president and chief executive officer of carnival corp.'s seabourn cruise line and from may 1998 to february 2001, he was president and chief executive officer of carnival corp.'s cunard line. harri u. kulovaara has served as executive vice president, maritime since january 2005. mr. kulovaara is responsible for fleet design and newbuild operations. mr. kulovaara also chairs our maritime safety advisory board. mr. kulovaara has been employed with royal caribbean since 1995 in a variety of positions, including senior vice president, marine operations, and senior vice president, quality assurance. mr. kulovaara is a naval architect and engineer. bradley h. stein has served as general counsel and corporate secretary of the company since 2006. he has also served as senior vice president and chief compliance officer of the company since february 2009 and february 2011, respectively. mr. stein has been with royal caribbean since 1992. before joining royal caribbean, mr. stein worked in private practice in new york and miami. henry l. pujol has served as senior vice president, chief accounting officer of the company since may 2013. mr. pujol originally joined royal caribbean in 2004 as assistant controller and was promoted to corporate controller in may 2007. before joining royal caribbean, mr. pujol was a senior manager at the international public accounting firm of kpmg llp. 22 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k are important factors that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historical results. it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks. there may be additional risks that we consider not to be material, or which are not known, and any of these risks could have the effects set forth below. the ordering of the risk factors set forth below is not intended to reflect any company indication of priority or likelihood. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for a cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements. adverse worldwide economic or other conditions could reduce the demand for cruises and passenger spending, adversely impacting our operating results, cash flows and financial condition including potentially impairing the value of our ships and other assets. the demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic conditions. weak or uncertain economic conditions impact consumer confidence and pose a risk as vacationers may postpone or reduce discretionary spending. this, in turn, may result in cruise booking slowdowns, decreased cruise prices and lower onboard revenues. given the global nature of our business, we are exposed to many different economies and our business could be hurt by challenging conditions in any of our markets. any significant deterioration of international, national or local economic conditions could result in a prolonged period of booking slowdowns, depressed cruise prices and reduced onboard revenues. fears of terrorist attacks, war, and other hostilities could have a negative impact on our results of operations. events such as terrorist attacks, war (or war-like conditions), conflicts (domestic or cross-border), civil unrest and other hostilities, including an escalation in the frequency or severity of incidents, and the resulting political instability, travel restrictions and advisories, and concerns over safety and security aspects of traveling or the fear of any of the foregoing have had, and could have in the future, a significant adverse impact on demand and pricing in the travel and vacation industry. in view of our global operations, we are susceptible to a wide range of adverse events. these events could also result in additional security measures taken by local authorities which may potentially impact access to ports and/or destinations. our operating costs could increase due to market forces and economic or geo-political factors beyond our control. our operating costs, including fuel, food, payroll and benefits, airfare, taxes, insurance and security costs, are all subject to increases due to market forces and economic or geo-political conditions or other factors beyond our control. increases in these operating costs could adversely affect our profitability. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, fuel prices and interest rates could affect our financial results. we are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, fuel prices and interest rates. significant changes in any of the foregoing could have a material impact on our financial results, net of the impact of our hedging activities and natural offsets. our operating results have been and will continue to be impacted, often significantly, by changes in each of these factors. the value of our earnings in foreign currencies is adversely impacted by a strong united states dollar. in addition, any significant increase in fuel prices could materially and adversely affect our business as fuel prices not only impact our fuel costs, but also some of our other expenses, such as crew travel, freight and commodity prices. also, a significant increase in interest rates could materially impact the cost of our floating rate debt. furthermore, regulatory changes, such as the announcement of the united kingdom's financial conduct authority to phase out libor by the end of 2021, may adversely affect our portfolio of floating-rate debt and interest rate derivatives. if libor ceases to exist, we may need to renegotiate any credit agreements or interest rate derivatives agreements extending beyond 2021 that utilize libor as a factor in determining the interest rate or hedge rate, which could adversely impact our cost of debt. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for more information. conducting business globally may result in increased costs and other risks. we operate our business globally. operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including increased exposure to a wider range of regional and local economic conditions, volatile local political conditions, potential 23 table of contents changes in duties and taxes, including changing and/or uncertain interpretations of existing tax laws and regulations, required compliance with additional laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses or governing the operations of foreign-based companies, currency fluctuations, interest rate movements, difficulties in operating under local business environments, port quality and availability in certain regions, u.s. and global anti-bribery laws or regulations, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings. our future growth strategies increasingly depend on the growth and sustained profitability of certain international markets, such as china. some factors that will be critical to our success in developing these markets may be different than those affecting our more-established north american and european markets. in the chinese market, in particular, our future success depends on our ability to continue to raise awareness of our products, evolve the available distribution channels and adapt our offerings to best suit the chinese consumer. china's economy differs from the economies of other developed countries in many respects and, as the legal and regulatory system in china continues to evolve, there may be greater uncertainty as to the interpretation and enforcement of applicable laws and regulations. in march 2017, china's national tourism administration issued a directive to travel agents to halt sales of holiday packages to south korea. this travel restriction has had a direct impact on our related itineraries impacting the overall performance of our china business. it is uncertain what the ultimate scope and duration of this restriction will be, but to the extent that this or similar sanctions affecting regional travel and/or tourism continues or are put in place, it may impact local demand, available cruise itineraries and the overall financial performance of the china market. operating globally also exposes us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal, regulatory and tax requirements. in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business communities might not conform to international business standards. we must adhere to policies designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance as well as applicable laws and regulations. however, we might not be successful in ensuring that our employees, agents, representatives and other third parties with whom we associate throughout the world properly adhere to them. failure by us, our employees or any of these third parties to adhere to our policies or applicable laws or regulations could result in penalties, sanctions, damage to our reputation and related costs which in turn could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. we have operations in and source passengers from the united kingdom and other member countries of the european union. in march 2017, the united kingdom notified the european council of its intent to withdraw from the european union. since the initial referendum in june 2016, the expected withdrawal has resulted in increased volatility in the global financial markets and, in particular, in global currency exchange rates. the expected withdrawal could potentially adversely affect tax, legal and regulatory regimes to which our business in the region is subject. the expected withdrawal could also, among other potential outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the united kingdom and the european union. further, as the expected withdrawal approaches, continued uncertainty around these issues could lead to adverse effects on the economy of the united kingdom, including the value of the british pound, and the other economies in which we operate, making it more difficult to source passengers from these regions. these risks may be exacerbated if a structured withdrawal agreement is not ratified before the march 29, 2019 deadline, and/or if voters of other countries within the european union similarly elect to exit the european union in future referendums. as a global operator, our business may be also impacted by changes in u.s. policy or priorities in areas such as trade, immigration and/or environmental or labor regulations, among others. depending on the nature and scope of any such changes, they could impact our domestic and international business operations. any such changes, and any international response to them, could potentially introduce new barriers to passenger or crew travel and/or cross border transactions, impact our guest experience and/or increase our operating costs. for example, we are currently monitoring developments in venezuela as well as the u.s. government's recent comments regarding its policy towards cuba and its impact to our business. a significant shift in u.s. policy towards cuba, including the administration's possible taking action to limit the ability of companies like us to continue to conduct business in cuba, and/or a significant deterioration in the cuban economy could impact our cuban itineraries and associated ticket and tour revenues. in addition, the administration has stated it is reviewing whether to continue to suspend the right of private parties to bring litigation under the helms-burton act against companies making unauthorized use of property confiscated by the cuban government. if such suspension is lifted, monetary and other claims may be brought against us and other companies doing business in cuba. although we believe we have meritorious defenses to any such claims, it is possible that such claims could lead to an adverse impact on our business. 24 table of contents if we are unable to address these risks adequately, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected, including potentially impairing the value of our ships and other assets. price increases for commercial airline service for our guests or major changes or reduction in commercial airline service and/or availability could adversely impact the demand for cruises and undermine our ability to provide reasonably priced vacation packages to our guests. many of our guests depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to or from the ports where our cruises embark or disembark. increases in the price of airfare would increase the overall price of the cruise vacation to our guests, which may adversely impact demand for our cruises. in addition, changes in the availability of commercial airline services could adversely affect our guests' ability to obtain airfare, as well as our ability to fly our guests to or from our cruise ships, which could adversely affect our results of operations. incidents or adverse publicity concerning our ships, port facilities, land destinations and/or passengers or the cruise vacation industry in general, unusual weather conditions and other natural disasters or disruptions could affect our reputation as well as impact our sales and results of operations. the ownership and/or operation of cruise ships, private destinations, port facilities and shore excursions involves the risk of accidents, illnesses, mechanical failures, environmental incidents and other incidents which may bring into question safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction which could negatively impact our reputation. incidents involving cruise ships, and, in particular the safety, health and security of guests and crew and media coverage thereof have impacted and could in the future impact demand for our cruises and pricing in the industry. our reputation and our business could also be damaged by negative publicity regarding the cruise industry in general, including publicity regarding the spread of contagious disease and the potentially adverse environmental impacts of cruising. the considerable expansion in the use of social media and digital marketing over recent years has compounded the potential scope of any negative publicity. if any such incident or news cycle occurs during a time of high seasonal demand, the effect could disproportionately impact our results of operations for the year. in addition, incidents involving cruise ships may result in additional costs to our business, increasing government or other regulatory oversight and, in the case of incidents involving our ships, potential litigation. our cruise ships, port facilities and land destinations may also be adversely impacted by weather or natural disasters or disruptions, such as hurricanes. we are often forced to alter itineraries and occasionally cancel a cruise or a series of cruises or to redeploy our ships due to these types of events, which could have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability in the current and future periods. increases in the frequency, severity or duration of severe weather events, including those related to climate change, could exacerbate their impact and cause further disruption to our operations or make certain destinations less desirable. in addition, these and any other events which impact the travel industry more generally may negatively impact our ability to deliver guests or crew to our cruises and/or interrupt our ability to obtain services and goods from key vendors in our supply chain. any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and on industry performance. an increase in capacity worldwide or excess capacity in a particular market could adversely impact our cruise sales and/or pricing. although our ships can be redeployed, cruise sales and/or pricing may be impacted by the introduction of new ships into the marketplace, reductions in cruise capacity, overall market growth and deployment decisions of ourselves and our competitors. as of december 31, 2018 , a total of 89 new ships with approximately 198,000 berths are on order for delivery through 2023 in the cruise industry. the further net growth in capacity from these new ships and future orders, without an increase in the cruise industry's demand and/or share of the vacation market, could depress cruise prices and impede our ability to achieve yield improvement. in addition, to the extent that we or our competitors deploy ships to a particular itinerary and the resulting capacity in that region exceeds the demand, we may lower pricing and profitability may be lower than anticipated. this risk exists in emerging cruise markets, such as china, where capacity has grown rapidly over the past few years and in mature markets where excess capacity is typically redeployed. any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, including potentially impairing the value of our ships and other assets. 25 table of contents unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our results of operations . we believe that port destinations are a major reason why guests choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. the availability of ports and destinations is affected by a number of factors, including existing capacity constraints, constraints related to the size of certain ships, security, environmental and health concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, geopolitical developments, local governmental regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists and overcrowding. in addition, fuel costs may adversely impact the destinations on certain of our itineraries. today certain ports and destinations are facing a surge of both cruise and non-cruise tourism which, in certain cases, has fueled anti-tourism sentiments and related countermeasures to limit the volume of tourists allowed in these destinations, including proposed limits on cruise ships and cruise passengers. in 2019, for example, the local government of dubrovnik, croatia will cap the number of cruise ships that can dock each day to two and the number of corresponding passengers to 5,000. similar potential restrictions in ports and destinations such as barcelona, venice, amsterdam and the norwegian fjords could limit the itinerary and destination options we can offer our passengers going forward. any limitations on the availability or feasibility of our ports of call or on the availability of shore excursions and other service providers at such ports could adversely affect our results of operations. our reliance on shipyards, their subcontractors and our suppliers to implement our newbuild and ship upgrade programs and to repair and maintain our ships exposes us to risks which, if realized, could adversely impact our business. we rely on shipyards, their subcontractors and our suppliers to effectively construct our new ships and to repair, maintain and upgrade our existing ships on a timely basis and in a cost effective manner. there are a limited number of shipyards with the capability and capacity to build our new ships. increased demand for available new construction slots and/or continued consolidation in the cruise shipyard industry could impact our ability to: (1) construct new ships, when and as planned, (2) cause us to continue to commit to new ship orders earlier than we have historically done so and/or (3) result in stronger bargaining power on the part of the shipyards and the export credit agencies providing financing for the project. our inability to timely and cost-effectively procure new capacity could have a significant negative impact on our future business plans and results of operations. building, repairing, maintaining and/or upgrading a ship is sophisticated work that involves significant risks. in addition, the prices of labor and/or various commodities that are used in the construction of ships can be subject to volatile price changes, including the impact of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. shipyards, their subcontractors and/or our suppliers may encounter financial, technical or design problems when doing these jobs. if materialized, these problems could impact the timely delivery or costs of new ships or the ability of shipyards to repair and upgrade our fleet in accordance with our needs or expectations. in addition, delays or mechanical faults may result in cancellation of cruises or, in more severe situations, new ship orders, or necessitate unscheduled drydocks and repairs of ships. these events and any related adverse publicity could result in lost revenue, increased operating expenses, or both, and thus adversely affect our results of operations. we may lose business to competitors throughout the vacation market . we operate in the vacation market and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. we therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators, which provide other leisure options, including hotels, resorts, internet-based alternative lodging sites and package holidays and tours. we face significant competition from other cruise lines on the basis of cruise pricing, travel agent preference and also in terms of the nature of ships and services we offer to guests. our principal competitors within the cruise vacation industry include carnival corporation &amp; plc, which owns, among others, aida cruises, carnival cruise line, costa cruises, cunard line, holland america line, p&amp;o cruises, princess cruises and seabourn; disney cruise line; msc cruises; and norwegian cruise line holdings ltd, which owns norwegian cruise line, oceania cruises and regent seven seas cruises. our revenues are sensitive to the actions of other cruise lines in many areas including pricing, scheduling, capacity and promotions, which can have a substantial adverse impact not only on our revenues, but on overall industry revenues. 26 table of contents in the event that we do not effectively market or differentiate our cruise brands from our competitors or otherwise compete effectively with other vacation alternatives and new or existing cruise companies, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. we may not be able to obtain sufficient financing or capital for our needs or may not be able to do so on terms that are acceptable or consistent with our expectations. to fund our capital expenditures (including new ship orders), operations and scheduled debt payments, we have historically relied on a combination of cash flows provided by operations, drawdowns under available credit facilities, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the sale of equity or debt securities in private or public securities markets. any circumstance or event which leads to a decrease in consumer cruise spending, such as worsening global economic conditions or significant incidents impacting the cruise industry, could negatively affect our operating cash flows. see - adverse worldwide economic or other conditions and - incidents or adverse publicity concerning our ships and/or passengers or the cruise vacation industry for more information. although we believe we can access sufficient liquidity to fund our operations, investments and obligations as expected, there can be no assurances to that effect. our ability to access additional funding as and when needed, our ability to timely refinance and/or replace our outstanding debt securities and credit facilities on acceptable terms and our cost of funding will depend upon numerous factors including, but not limited to, the vibrancy of the financial markets, our financial performance, the performance of our industry in general and the size, scope and timing of our financial needs. in addition, even where financing commitments have been secured, significant disruptions in the capital and credit markets could cause our banking and other counterparties to breach their contractual obligations to us. this could include failures of banks or other financial service companies to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements or to pay us amounts that may become due or return collateral that is refundable under our derivative contracts for hedging of fuel prices, interest rates and foreign currencies or other agreements. if any of the foregoing occurs it may have a negative impact on our cash flows, including our ability to meet our obligations, our results of operations and our financial condition. our liquidity could be adversely impacted if we are unable to satisfy the covenants required by our credit facilities. our debt agreements contain covenants, including covenants restricting our and their ability to take certain actions and financial covenants. our ability to maintain our credit facilities may also be impacted by changes in our ownership base. more specifically, we may be required to prepay our bank financing facilities if any person acquires ownership of more than 50% of our common stock or, subject to certain exceptions, during any 24-month period, a majority of our board of directors is no longer comprised of individuals who were members of our board of directors on the first day of such period. our public debt securities also contain change of control provisions that would be triggered by a third-party acquisition of greater than 50% of our common stock coupled with a ratings downgrade. failure to comply with the terms of these debt facilities could result in an event of default. generally, if an event of default under any debt agreement occurs, then pursuant to cross default acceleration clauses, our outstanding debt and derivative contract payables could become due and/or terminated. in addition, in such events, our credit card processors could hold back payments to create a reserve. we cannot provide assurances that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay, or the ability to refinance the debt if such amounts were accelerated upon an event of default. if we are unable to appropriately balance our cost management and capital allocation strategies with our goal of satisfying guest expectations, it may adversely impact our business success. our goals call for us to provide high quality products and deliver high quality services. there can be no assurance that we can successfully balance these goals with our cost management and capital allocation strategies. our business also requires us to make capital allocation decisions, such as ordering new ships, upgrading our existing fleet, enhancing our technology and data capabilities, and expanding our portfolio of land-based assets, based on expected market preferences, competition and projected demand. there can be no assurance that our strategies will be successful, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. investments in older tonnage, in particular, run the risk of not meeting expected returns and diluting related asset values. our attempts to expand our business into new markets and new ventures may not be successful. we opportunistically seek to grow our business through, among other things, expansion into new destination or source markets and establishment of new ventures complementary to our current offerings. these attempts to expand 27 table of contents our business increase the complexity of our business, require significant levels of investment and can strain our management, personnel, operations and systems. there can be no assurance that these business expansion efforts will develop as anticipated or that we will succeed, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. our reliance on travel agencies to sell and market our cruises exposes us to certain risks which, if realized, could adversely impact our business. we rely on travel agencies to generate the majority of bookings for our ships. accordingly, we must ensure that our commission rates and incentive structures remain competitive. if we fail to offer competitive compensation packages, these agencies may be incentivized to sell cruises offered by our competitors to our detriment, which could adversely impact our operating results. our reliance on third-party sellers is particularly pronounced in certain markets, such as china, where we have a large number of travel agent charter and group sales and less retail agency and direct bookings. in addition, the travel agent industry is sensitive to economic conditions that impact discretionary income of consumers. significant disruptions, especially disruptions impacting those agencies that sell a high volume of our business, or contractions in the industry could reduce the number of travel agencies available for us to market and sell our cruises, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. disruptions in our shoreside or shipboard operations or our information systems may adversely affect our results of operations. our principal executive office and principal shoreside operations are located in florida, and we have shoreside offices throughout the world. actual or threatened natural disasters (e.g., hurricanes/typhoons, earthquakes, tornadoes, fires or floods) or similar events in these locations may have a material impact on our business continuity, reputation and results of operations. in addition, substantial or repeated information system failures, computer viruses or cyber-attacks impacting our shoreside or shipboard operations could adversely impact our business. we do not generally carry business interruption insurance for our shoreside or shipboard operations or our information systems. as such, any losses or damages incurred by us could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. the loss of key personnel, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel, or disruptions among our shipboard personnel due to strained employee relations could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends, in large part, on the skills and contributions of key executives and other employees, and on our ability to recruit, develop and retain high quality personnel and develop adequate succession plans. as demand for qualified personnel in the industry grows, we must continue to effectively recruit, train, motivate and retain our employees, both shoreside and on our ships, in order to effectively compete in our industry, maintain our current business and support our projected global growth. as of december 31, 2018 , 89% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. a dispute under our collective bargaining agreements could result in a work stoppage of those employees covered by the agreements. we may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate these collective bargaining agreements when they expire. in addition, existing collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage on our ships. we may also be subject to or affected by work stoppages unrelated to our business or collective bargaining agreements. any such work stoppages or potential work stoppages could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, as could a loss of key employees, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel or disruptions among our personnel. business activities that involve our co-investments with third parties may subject us to additional risks. partnerships, joint ventures and other business structures involving our co-investments with third parties generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. in addition to financial risks, our co-investment activities may also present managerial and operational risks and expose us to reputational or legal concerns. these or other issues related to our co-investments with third parties could adversely impact our operations. 28 table of contents past or pending business acquisitions or potential acquisitions that we may decide to pursue in the future carry inherent risks which could adversely impact our financial performance and condition. the company, from time to time, has engaged in acquisitions (e.g., our recent silversea cruises acquisition) and may pursue acquisitions in the future, which are subject to, among other factors, the company's ability to identify attractive business opportunities and to negotiate favorable terms for such opportunities. accordingly, the company cannot make any assurances that potential acquisitions will be completed timely or at all, or that if completed, we would realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisition. acquisitions also carry inherent risks such as, among others: (1) the potential delay or failure of our efforts to successfully integrate business processes and realizing expected synergies; (2) difficulty in aligning procedures, controls and/or policies; and (3) future unknown liabilities and costs that may be associated with an acquisition. in addition, acquisitions may also adversely impact our liquidity and/or debt levels, and the recognized value of goodwill and other intangible assets can be negatively affected by unforeseen events and/or circumstances, which may result in an impairment charge. any of the foregoing events could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. we rely on supply chain vendors and third-party service providers who are integral to the operations of our businesses. these vendors and service providers may be unable or unwilling to deliver on their commitments or may act in ways that could harm our business. we rely on supply chain vendors to deliver key products to the operations of our businesses around the world. any event impacting a vendor's ability to deliver goods of the required quality at the location and time needed could negatively impact our ability to deliver our cruise experience. events impacting our supply chain could be caused by factors beyond the control of our suppliers or us, including inclement weather, natural disasters, increased demand, problems in production or distribution and/or disruptions in third-party logistics or transportation systems. interruptions to our supply chain could increase costs and could limit the availability of products critical to our operations. in order to achieve cost and operational efficiencies, we outsource to third-party vendors certain services that are integral to the operations of our global businesses, such as our onboard concessionaires, certain of our call center operations and operation of a large part of our information technology systems. we are subject to the risk that certain decisions are subject to the control of our third-party service providers and that these decisions may adversely affect our activities. a failure to adequately monitor a third-party service provider's compliance with a service level agreement or regulatory or legal requirements could result in significant economic and reputational harm to us. there is also a risk the confidentiality, privacy and/or security of data held by third parties or communicated over third-party networks or platforms could become compromised. if we are unable to keep pace with developments in technology or technological obsolescence, our operations or competitive position could become impaired. our business continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems. these technologies and systems require significant investment and must be proven, refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems in order to continue to meet our customers' demands and expectations. if we are unable to do so in a timely manner or within reasonable cost parameters or if we are unable to appropriately and timely train our employees to operate any of these new systems, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, which could result in higher than anticipated costs or impair our operating results. we are exposed to cyber-attacks and data breaches, including the risks and costs associated with protecting our systems and maintaining integrity and security of our business information, as well as personal data of our guests, employees and business partners. we are subject to cyber-attacks. these cyber-attacks can vary in scope and intent from attacks with the objective of compromising our systems, networks and communications for economic gain to attacks with the objective of disrupting, disabling or otherwise compromising our maritime and/or shoreside operations. the attacks can encompass a wide range of methods and intent, including phishing attacks, illegitimate requests for payment, theft of intellectual property, theft of confidential or non-public information, installation of malware, installation of ransomware and theft of personal or business information. the breadth and scope of these attacks, as well as the techniques and sophistication used to conduct these attacks, have grown over time. 29 table of contents a successful cyber-attack may target us directly, or it may be the result of a third party's inadequate care. in either scenario, the company may suffer damage to its systems and data that could interrupt our operations, adversely impact our reputation and brand and expose us to increased risks of governmental investigation, litigation and other liability, any of which could adversely affect our business. furthermore, responding to such an attack and mitigating the risk of future attacks could result in additional operating and capital costs in systems technology, personnel, monitoring and other investments. in addition, we are also subject to various risks associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of sensitive information. in the course of doing business, we collect large volumes of employee, customer and other third-party data, including personally identifiable information and individual credit data, for various business purposes. we are subject to federal, state and international laws (including the european union general data protection regulation which took effect in may 2018), as well as industry standards, relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personally identifiable information and individual credit data. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between the company and its subsidiaries, and among the company, its subsidiaries and other parties with which the company has commercial relations. several jurisdictions have passed laws in this area, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. these laws continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. complying with emerging and changing international requirements has caused, and may cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices. if we fail to comply with the various applicable data collection and privacy laws, we could be exposed to fines, penalties, restrictions, litigation or other expenses, and our business could be adversely impacted. while we continue to evolve our cyber-security practices in line with our business' reliance on technology and the changing external threat landscape, and we invest time, effort and financial resources to secure our systems, networks and communications, our security measures cannot provide absolute assurance that we will be successful in preventing or responding to all cyber-attacks. for example, in september 2018, we discovered instances of unauthorized access to a number of employee e-mail communications, some of which contained proprietary business and personally identifiable information. we have implemented additional safeguards, and we do not believe that we experienced any material losses related to this incident; however, there can be no assurance that this or any other breach or incident will not have a material impact on our operations and financial results in the future. any breach, theft, loss, or fraudulent use of guest, employee, third-party or company data, could adversely impact our reputation and brand and our ability to retain or attract new customers, and expose us to risks of data loss, business disruption, governmental investigation, litigation and other liability, any of which could adversely affect our business. significant capital investments and other expenditures could be required to remedy the problem and prevent future breaches, including costs associated with additional security technologies, personnel, experts and credit monitoring services for those whose data has been breached. further, if we or our vendors experience significant data security breaches or fail to detect and appropriately respond to significant data security breaches, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation. the potential unavailability of insurance coverage, an inability to obtain insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates or our failure to have coverage in sufficient amounts to cover our incurred losses may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we seek to maintain appropriate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates. we normally insure based on the cost of an asset rather than replacement value and we also elect to self-insure, co-insure, or use deductibles in certain circumstances for certain risks such as loss of use of a ship or a cyber-security breach. the limits of insurance coverage we purchase are based on the availability of the coverage, evaluation of our risk profile and cost of coverage. accordingly, we are not protected against all risks and we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred which could result in an unexpected decrease in our revenue and results of operations in the event of an incident. we are members of four protection and indemnity ("p&amp;i") clubs, which are part of a worldwide group of 13 p&amp;i clubs, known as the international group of p&amp;i clubs (the ig ). p&amp;i coverage provided by the clubs is on a mutual basis and we are subject to additional premium calls in the event of a catastrophic loss incurred by any member of the 13 p&amp;i clubs, whereby the reinsurance limits purchased by the ig are exhausted. we are also subject to additional premium calls based on investment and underwriting shortfalls experienced by our own individual insurers. 30 table of contents we cannot be certain that insurance and reinsurance coverage will be available to us and at commercially reasonable rates in the future or at all or, if available, that it will be sufficient to cover potential claims. additionally, if we or other insureds sustain significant losses, the result may be higher insurance premiums, cancellation of coverage, or the inability to obtain coverage. such events could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. environmental, labor, health and safety, financial responsibility and other maritime regulations could affect operations and increase operating costs. the united states and various state and foreign government or regulatory agencies have enacted or may enact environmental regulations or policies, such as requiring the use of low sulfur fuels, that could increase our direct cost to operate in certain markets, increase our cost for fuel, limit the supply of compliant fuel, cause us to incur significant expenses to purchase and/or develop new equipment and adversely impact the cruise vacation industry. while we have taken and expect to continue to take a number of actions to mitigate the potential impact of certain of these regulations, there can be no assurances that these efforts will be successful or completed on a timely basis. there is increasing global regulatory focus on climate change, greenhouse gas (ghg) and other emissions. these regulatory efforts, both internationally and in the united states are still developing, and we cannot yet determine what the final regulatory programs or their impact will be in any jurisdiction where we do business. however, such climate change-related regulatory activity in the future may adversely affect our business and financial results by requiring us to reduce our emissions, purchase allowances or otherwise pay for our emissions. such activity may also impact us by increasing our operating costs, including fuel costs. some environmental groups have also lobbied for more stringent regulation of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise vacation industry and its environmental impact. see item 1. business-regulation-environmental regulations . in addition, we are subject to various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties that govern, among other things, discharge from our ships, safety standards applicable to our ships, treatment of disabled persons, health and sanitary standards applicable to our guests, security standards on board our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities to our guests. these issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. this could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that could subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. a change in our tax status under the united states internal revenue code, or other jurisdictions, may have adverse effects on our income . we and a number of our subsidiaries are foreign corporations that derive income from a u.s. trade or business and/or from sources within the united states. drinker biddle &amp; reath llp, our u.s. tax counsel, has delivered to us an opinion, based on certain representations and assumptions set forth in it, to the effect that this income, to the extent derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, is excluded from gross income for u.s. federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 883 of the internal revenue code. we believe that most of our income (including that of our subsidiaries) is derived from or incidental to the international operation of ships. our ability to rely on section 883 could be challenged or could change in the future. provisions of the internal revenue code, including section 883, are subject to legislative change at any time. moreover, changes could occur in the future with respect to the identity, residence or holdings of our direct or indirect shareholders, trading volume or trading frequency of our shares, or relevant foreign tax laws of liberia such that it no longer qualifies as an equivalent exemption jurisdiction, that could affect our eligibility for the section 883 exemption. accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be exempt from u.s. income tax on u.s. source shipping income in the future. if we were not entitled to the benefit of section 883, we and our subsidiaries would be subject to u.s. taxation on a portion of the income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships, which would reduce our net income. additionally, portions of our business are operated by companies that are within the united kingdom tonnage tax regime. further, some of our operations are conducted in jurisdictions where we rely on tax treaties to provide exemption from taxation. to the extent the united kingdom tonnage tax laws change or we do not continue to meet 31 table of contents the applicable qualification requirements or if tax treaties are changed or revoked, we may be required to pay higher income tax in these jurisdictions, adversely impacting our results of operations. as budgetary constraints continue to adversely impact the jurisdictions in which we operate, increases in income tax regulations, tax audits or tax reform affecting our operations may be imposed. litigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and/or damage our reputation. our business is subject to various united states and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. in addition, improper conduct by our employees, agents or joint venture partners could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. in certain circumstances it may not be economical to defend against such matters and/or a legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. we are not a united states corporation and our shareholders may be subject to the uncertainties of a foreign legal system in protecting their interests. our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the business corporation act of liberia. the provisions of the business corporation act of liberia resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the united states. however, while most states have a fairly well developed body of case law interpreting their respective corporate statutes, there are very few judicial cases in liberia interpreting the business corporation act of liberia. as such, the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under liberian law are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in certain united states jurisdictions. for example, the right of shareholders to bring a derivative action in liberian courts may be more limited than in united states jurisdictions. there may also be practical difficulties for shareholders attempting to bring suit in liberia and liberian courts may or may not recognize and enforce foreign judgments. thus, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests with respect to actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a united states jurisdiction. provisions of our articles of incorporation, by-laws and liberian law could inhibit others from acquiring us, prevent a change of control, and may prevent efforts by our shareholders to change our management. certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws and liberian law may inhibit third parties from effectuating a change of control of the company without approval from our board of directors which could result in the entrenchment of current management. these include provisions in our articles of incorporation that prevent third parties, other than a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates, from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of our outstanding shares without the consent of our board of directors. 32 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for more information. conducting business globally may result in increased costs and other risks. we operate our business globally. operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including increased exposure to a wider range of regional and local economic conditions, volatile local political conditions, potential 23 table of contents changes in duties and taxes, including changing and/or uncertain interpretations of existing tax laws and regulations, required compliance with additional laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses or governing the operations of foreign-based companies, currency fluctuations, interest rate movements, difficulties in operating under local business environments, port quality and availability in certain regions, u.s. and global anti-bribery laws or regulations, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings. our future growth strategies increasingly depend on the growth and sustained profitability of certain international markets, such as china. some factors that will be critical to our success in developing these markets may be different than those affecting our more-established north american and european markets. in the chinese market, in particular, our future success depends on our ability to continue to raise awareness of our products, evolve the available distribution channels and adapt our offerings to best suit the chinese consumer. china's economy differs from the economies of other developed countries in many respects and, as the legal and regulatory system in china continues to evolve, there may be greater uncertainty as to the interpretation and enforcement of applicable laws and regulations. in march 2017, china's national tourism administration issued a directive to travel agents to halt sales of holiday packages to south korea. this travel restriction has had a direct impact on our related itineraries impacting the overall performance of our china business. it is uncertain what the ultimate scope and duration of this restriction will be, but to the extent that this or similar sanctions affecting regional travel and/or tourism continues or are put in place, it may impact local demand, available cruise itineraries and the overall financial performance of the china market. operating globally also exposes us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal, regulatory and tax requirements. in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business communities might not conform to international business standards. we must adhere to policies designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance as well as applicable laws and regulations. however, we might not be successful in ensuring that our employees, agents, representatives and other third parties with whom we associate throughout the world properly adhere to them. failure by us, our employees or any of these third parties to adhere to our policies or applicable laws or regulations could result in penalties, sanctions, damage to our reputation and related costs which in turn could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. we have operations in and source passengers from the united kingdom and other member countries of the european union. in march 2017, the united kingdom notified the european council of its intent to withdraw from the european union. since the initial referendum in june 2016, the expected withdrawal has resulted in increased volatility in the global financial markets and, in particular, in global currency exchange rates. the expected withdrawal could potentially adversely affect tax, legal and regulatory regimes to which our business in the region is subject. the expected withdrawal could also, among other potential outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the united kingdom and the european union. further, as the expected withdrawal approaches, continued uncertainty around these issues could lead to adverse effects on the economy of the united kingdom, including the value of the british pound, and the other economies in which we operate, making it more difficult to source passengers from these regions. these risks may be exacerbated if a structured withdrawal agreement is not ratified before the march 29, 2019 deadline, and/or if voters of other countries within the european union similarly elect to exit the european union in future referendums. as a global operator, our business may be also impacted by changes in u.s. policy or priorities in areas such as trade, immigration and/or environmental or labor regulations, among others. depending on the nature and scope of any such changes, they could impact our domestic and international business operations. any such changes, and any international response to them, could potentially introduce new barriers to passenger or crew travel and/or cross border transactions, impact our guest experience and/or increase our operating costs. for example, we are currently monitoring developments in venezuela as well as the u.s. government's recent comments regarding its policy towards cuba and its impact to our business. a significant shift in u.s. policy towards cuba, including the administration's possible taking action to limit the ability of companies like us to continue to conduct business in cuba, and/or a significant deterioration in the cuban economy could impact our cuban itineraries and associated ticket and tour revenues. in addition, the administration has stated it is reviewing whether to continue to suspend the right of private parties to bring litigation under the helms-burton act against companies making unauthorized use of property confiscated by the cuban government. if such suspension is lifted, monetary and other claims may be brought against us and other companies doing business in cuba. although we believe we have meritorious defenses to any such claims, it is possible that such claims could lead to an adverse impact on our business. 24 table of contents if we are unable to address these risks adequately, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected, including potentially impairing the value of our ships and other assets. price increases for commercial airline service for our guests or major changes or reduction in commercial airline service and/or availability could adversely impact the demand for cruises and undermine our ability to provide reasonably priced vacation packages to our guests. many of our guests depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to or from the ports where our cruises embark or disembark. increases in the price of airfare would increase the overall price of the cruise vacation to our guests, which may adversely impact demand for our cruises. in addition, changes in the availability of commercial airline services could adversely affect our guests' ability to obtain airfare, as well as our ability to fly our guests to or from our cruise ships, which could adversely affect our results of operations. incidents or adverse publicity concerning our ships, port facilities, land destinations and/or passengers or the cruise vacation industry in general, unusual weather conditions and other natural disasters or disruptions could affect our reputation as well as impact our sales and results of operations. the ownership and/or operation of cruise ships, private destinations, port facilities and shore excursions involves the risk of accidents, illnesses, mechanical failures, environmental incidents and other incidents which may bring into question safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction which could negatively impact our reputation. incidents involving cruise ships, and, in particular the safety, health and security of guests and crew and media coverage thereof have impacted and could in the future impact demand for our cruises and pricing in the industry. our reputation and our business could also be damaged by negative publicity regarding the cruise industry in general, including publicity regarding the spread of contagious disease and the potentially adverse environmental impacts of cruising. the considerable expansion in the use of social media and digital marketing over recent years has compounded the potential scope of any negative publicity. if any such incident or news cycle occurs during a time of high seasonal demand, the effect could disproportionately impact our results of operations for the year. in addition, incidents involving cruise ships may result in additional costs to our business, increasing government or other regulatory oversight and, in the case of incidents involving our ships, potential litigation. our cruise ships, port facilities and land destinations may also be adversely impacted by weather or natural disasters or disruptions, such as hurricanes. we are often forced to alter itineraries and occasionally cancel a cruise or a series of cruises or to redeploy our ships due to these types of events, which could have an adverse effect on our sales and profitability in the current and future periods. increases in the frequency, severity or duration of severe weather events, including those related to climate change, could exacerbate their impact and cause further disruption to our operations or make certain destinations less desirable. in addition, these and any other events which impact the travel industry more generally may negatively impact our ability to deliver guests or crew to our cruises and/or interrupt our ability to obtain services and goods from key vendors in our supply chain. any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and on industry performance. an increase in capacity worldwide or excess capacity in a particular market could adversely impact our cruise sales and/or pricing. although our ships can be redeployed, cruise sales and/or pricing may be impacted by the introduction of new ships into the marketplace, reductions in cruise capacity, overall market growth and deployment decisions of ourselves and our competitors. as of december 31, 2018 , a total of 89 new ships with approximately 198,000 berths are on order for delivery through 2023 in the cruise industry. the further net growth in capacity from these new ships and future orders, without an increase in the cruise industry's demand and/or share of the vacation market, could depress cruise prices and impede our ability to achieve yield improvement. in addition, to the extent that we or our competitors deploy ships to a particular itinerary and the resulting capacity in that region exceeds the demand, we may lower pricing and profitability may be lower than anticipated. this risk exists in emerging cruise markets, such as china, where capacity has grown rapidly over the past few years and in mature markets where excess capacity is typically redeployed. any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, including potentially impairing the value of our ships and other assets. 25 table of contents unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our results of operations . we believe that port destinations are a major reason why guests choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. the availability of ports and destinations is affected by a number of factors, including existing capacity constraints, constraints related to the size of certain ships, security, environmental and health concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, geopolitical developments, local governmental regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists and overcrowding. in addition, fuel costs may adversely impact the destinations on certain of our itineraries. today certain ports and destinations are facing a surge of both cruise and non-cruise tourism which, in certain cases, has fueled anti-tourism sentiments and related countermeasures to limit the volume of tourists allowed in these destinations, including proposed limits on cruise ships and cruise passengers. in 2019, for example, the local government of dubrovnik, croatia will cap the number of cruise ships that can dock each day to two and the number of corresponding passengers to 5,000. similar potential restrictions in ports and destinations such as barcelona, venice, amsterdam and the norwegian fjords could limit the itinerary and destination options we can offer our passengers going forward. any limitations on the availability or feasibility of our ports of call or on the availability of shore excursions and other service providers at such ports could adversely affect our results of operations. our reliance on shipyards, their subcontractors and our suppliers to implement our newbuild and ship upgrade programs and to repair and maintain our ships exposes us to risks which, if realized, could adversely impact our business. we rely on shipyards, their subcontractors and our suppliers to effectively construct our new ships and to repair, maintain and upgrade our existing ships on a timely basis and in a cost effective manner. there are a limited number of shipyards with the capability and capacity to build our new ships. increased demand for available new construction slots and/or continued consolidation in the cruise shipyard industry could impact our ability to: (1) construct new ships, when and as planned, (2) cause us to continue to commit to new ship orders earlier than we have historically done so and/or (3) result in stronger bargaining power on the part of the shipyards and the export credit agencies providing financing for the project. our inability to timely and cost-effectively procure new capacity could have a significant negative impact on our future business plans and results of operations. building, repairing, maintaining and/or upgrading a ship is sophisticated work that involves significant risks. in addition, the prices of labor and/or various commodities that are used in the construction of ships can be subject to volatile price changes, including the impact of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. shipyards, their subcontractors and/or our suppliers may encounter financial, technical or design problems when doing these jobs. if materialized, these problems could impact the timely delivery or costs of new ships or the ability of shipyards to repair and upgrade our fleet in accordance with our needs or expectations. in addition, delays or mechanical faults may result in cancellation of cruises or, in more severe situations, new ship orders, or necessitate unscheduled drydocks and repairs of ships. these events and any related adverse publicity could result in lost revenue, increased operating expenses, or both, and thus adversely affect our results of operations. we may lose business to competitors throughout the vacation market . we operate in the vacation market and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. we therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators, which provide other leisure options, including hotels, resorts, internet-based alternative lodging sites and package holidays and tours. we face significant competition from other cruise lines on the basis of cruise pricing, travel agent preference and also in terms of the nature of ships and services we offer to guests. our principal competitors within the cruise vacation industry include carnival corporation &amp; plc, which owns, among others, aida cruises, carnival cruise line, costa cruises, cunard line, holland america line, p&amp;o cruises, princess cruises and seabourn; disney cruise line; msc cruises; and norwegian cruise line holdings ltd, which owns norwegian cruise line, oceania cruises and regent seven seas cruises. our revenues are sensitive to the actions of other cruise lines in many areas including pricing, scheduling, capacity and promotions, which can have a substantial adverse impact not only on our revenues, but on overall industry revenues. 26 table of contents in the event that we do not effectively market or differentiate our cruise brands from our competitors or otherwise compete effectively with other vacation alternatives and new or existing cruise companies, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. we may not be able to obtain sufficient financing or capital for our needs or may not be able to do so on terms that are acceptable or consistent with our expectations. to fund our capital expenditures (including new ship orders), operations and scheduled debt payments, we have historically relied on a combination of cash flows provided by operations, drawdowns under available credit facilities, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the sale of equity or debt securities in private or public securities markets. any circumstance or event which leads to a decrease in consumer cruise spending, such as worsening global economic conditions or significant incidents impacting the cruise industry, could negatively affect our operating cash flows. see - adverse worldwide economic or other conditions and - incidents or adverse publicity concerning our ships and/or passengers or the cruise vacation industry for more information. although we believe we can access sufficient liquidity to fund our operations, investments and obligations as expected, there can be no assurances to that effect. our ability to access additional funding as and when needed, our ability to timely refinance and/or replace our outstanding debt securities and credit facilities on acceptable terms and our cost of funding will depend upon numerous factors including, but not limited to, the vibrancy of the financial markets, our financial performance, the performance of our industry in general and the size, scope and timing of our financial needs. in addition, even where financing commitments have been secured, significant disruptions in the capital and credit markets could cause our banking and other counterparties to breach their contractual obligations to us. this could include failures of banks or other financial service companies to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements or to pay us amounts that may become due or return collateral that is refundable under our derivative contracts for hedging of fuel prices, interest rates and foreign currencies or other agreements. if any of the foregoing occurs it may have a negative impact on our cash flows, including our ability to meet our obligations, our results of operations and our financial condition. our liquidity could be adversely impacted if we are unable to satisfy the covenants required by our credit facilities. our debt agreements contain covenants, including covenants restricting our and their ability to take certain actions and financial covenants. our ability to maintain our credit facilities may also be impacted by changes in our ownership base. more specifically, we may be required to prepay our bank financing facilities if any person acquires ownership of more than 50% of our common stock or, subject to certain exceptions, during any 24-month period, a majority of our board of directors is no longer comprised of individuals who were members of our board of directors on the first day of such period. our public debt securities also contain change of control provisions that would be triggered by a third-party acquisition of greater than 50% of our common stock coupled with a ratings downgrade. failure to comply with the terms of these debt facilities could result in an event of default. generally, if an event of default under any debt agreement occurs, then pursuant to cross default acceleration clauses, our outstanding debt and derivative contract payables could become due and/or terminated. in addition, in such events, our credit card processors could hold back payments to create a reserve. we cannot provide assurances that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay, or the ability to refinance the debt if such amounts were accelerated upon an event of default. if we are unable to appropriately balance our cost management and capital allocation strategies with our goal of satisfying guest expectations, it may adversely impact our business success. our goals call for us to provide high quality products and deliver high quality services. there can be no assurance that we can successfully balance these goals with our cost management and capital allocation strategies. our business also requires us to make capital allocation decisions, such as ordering new ships, upgrading our existing fleet, enhancing our technology and data capabilities, and expanding our portfolio of land-based assets, based on expected market preferences, competition and projected demand. there can be no assurance that our strategies will be successful, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. investments in older tonnage, in particular, run the risk of not meeting expected returns and diluting related asset values. our attempts to expand our business into new markets and new ventures may not be successful. we opportunistically seek to grow our business through, among other things, expansion into new destination or source markets and establishment of new ventures complementary to our current offerings. these attempts to expand 27 table of contents our business increase the complexity of our business, require significant levels of investment and can strain our management, personnel, operations and systems. there can be no assurance that these business expansion efforts will develop as anticipated or that we will succeed, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. our reliance on travel agencies to sell and market our cruises exposes us to certain risks which, if realized, could adversely impact our business. we rely on travel agencies to generate the majority of bookings for our ships. accordingly, we must ensure that our commission rates and incentive structures remain competitive. if we fail to offer competitive compensation packages, these agencies may be incentivized to sell cruises offered by our competitors to our detriment, which could adversely impact our operating results. our reliance on third-party sellers is particularly pronounced in certain markets, such as china, where we have a large number of travel agent charter and group sales and less retail agency and direct bookings. in addition, the travel agent industry is sensitive to economic conditions that impact discretionary income of consumers. significant disruptions, especially disruptions impacting those agencies that sell a high volume of our business, or contractions in the industry could reduce the number of travel agencies available for us to market and sell our cruises, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. disruptions in our shoreside or shipboard operations or our information systems may adversely affect our results of operations. our principal executive office and principal shoreside operations are located in florida, and we have shoreside offices throughout the world. actual or threatened natural disasters (e.g., hurricanes/typhoons, earthquakes, tornadoes, fires or floods) or similar events in these locations may have a material impact on our business continuity, reputation and results of operations. in addition, substantial or repeated information system failures, computer viruses or cyber-attacks impacting our shoreside or shipboard operations could adversely impact our business. we do not generally carry business interruption insurance for our shoreside or shipboard operations or our information systems. as such, any losses or damages incurred by us could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. the loss of key personnel, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel, or disruptions among our shipboard personnel due to strained employee relations could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends, in large part, on the skills and contributions of key executives and other employees, and on our ability to recruit, develop and retain high quality personnel and develop adequate succession plans. as demand for qualified personnel in the industry grows, we must continue to effectively recruit, train, motivate and retain our employees, both shoreside and on our ships, in order to effectively compete in our industry, maintain our current business and support our projected global growth. as of december 31, 2018 , 89% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. a dispute under our collective bargaining agreements could result in a work stoppage of those employees covered by the agreements. we may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate these collective bargaining agreements when they expire. in addition, existing collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage on our ships. we may also be subject to or affected by work stoppages unrelated to our business or collective bargaining agreements. any such work stoppages or potential work stoppages could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, as could a loss of key employees, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel or disruptions among our personnel. business activities that involve our co-investments with third parties may subject us to additional risks. partnerships, joint ventures and other business structures involving our co-investments with third parties generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. in addition to financial risks, our co-investment activities may also present managerial and operational risks and expose us to reputational or legal concerns. these or other issues related to our co-investments with third parties could adversely impact our operations. 28 table of contents past or pending business acquisitions or potential acquisitions that we may decide to pursue in the future carry inherent risks which could adversely impact our financial performance and condition. the company, from time to time, has engaged in acquisitions (e.g., our recent silversea cruises acquisition) and may pursue acquisitions in the future, which are subject to, among other factors, the company's ability to identify attractive business opportunities and to negotiate favorable terms for such opportunities. accordingly, the company cannot make any assurances that potential acquisitions will be completed timely or at all, or that if completed, we would realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisition. acquisitions also carry inherent risks such as, among others: (1) the potential delay or failure of our efforts to successfully integrate business processes and realizing expected synergies; (2) difficulty in aligning procedures, controls and/or policies; and (3) future unknown liabilities and costs that may be associated with an acquisition. in addition, acquisitions may also adversely impact our liquidity and/or debt levels, and the recognized value of goodwill and other intangible assets can be negatively affected by unforeseen events and/or circumstances, which may result in an impairment charge. any of the foregoing events could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. we rely on supply chain vendors and third-party service providers who are integral to the operations of our businesses. these vendors and service providers may be unable or unwilling to deliver on their commitments or may act in ways that could harm our business. we rely on supply chain vendors to deliver key products to the operations of our businesses around the world. any event impacting a vendor's ability to deliver goods of the required quality at the location and time needed could negatively impact our ability to deliver our cruise experience. events impacting our supply chain could be caused by factors beyond the control of our suppliers or us, including inclement weather, natural disasters, increased demand, problems in production or distribution and/or disruptions in third-party logistics or transportation systems. interruptions to our supply chain could increase costs and could limit the availability of products critical to our operations. in order to achieve cost and operational efficiencies, we outsource to third-party vendors certain services that are integral to the operations of our global businesses, such as our onboard concessionaires, certain of our call center operations and operation of a large part of our information technology systems. we are subject to the risk that certain decisions are subject to the control of our third-party service providers and that these decisions may adversely affect our activities. a failure to adequately monitor a third-party service provider's compliance with a service level agreement or regulatory or legal requirements could result in significant economic and reputational harm to us. there is also a risk the confidentiality, privacy and/or security of data held by third parties or communicated over third-party networks or platforms could become compromised. if we are unable to keep pace with developments in technology or technological obsolescence, our operations or competitive position could become impaired. our business continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems. these technologies and systems require significant investment and must be proven, refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems in order to continue to meet our customers' demands and expectations. if we are unable to do so in a timely manner or within reasonable cost parameters or if we are unable to appropriately and timely train our employees to operate any of these new systems, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, which could result in higher than anticipated costs or impair our operating results. we are exposed to cyber-attacks and data breaches, including the risks and costs associated with protecting our systems and maintaining integrity and security of our business information, as well as personal data of our guests, employees and business partners. we are subject to cyber-attacks. these cyber-attacks can vary in scope and intent from attacks with the objective of compromising our systems, networks and communications for economic gain to attacks with the objective of disrupting, disabling or otherwise compromising our maritime and/or shoreside operations. the attacks can encompass a wide range of methods and intent, including phishing attacks, illegitimate requests for payment, theft of intellectual property, theft of confidential or non-public information, installation of malware, installation of ransomware and theft of personal or business information. the breadth and scope of these attacks, as well as the techniques and sophistication used to conduct these attacks, have grown over time. 29 table of contents a successful cyber-attack may target us directly, or it may be the result of a third party's inadequate care. in either scenario, the company may suffer damage to its systems and data that could interrupt our operations, adversely impact our reputation and brand and expose us to increased risks of governmental investigation, litigation and other liability, any of which could adversely affect our business. furthermore, responding to such an attack and mitigating the risk of future attacks could result in additional operating and capital costs in systems technology, personnel, monitoring and other investments. in addition, we are also subject to various risks associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of sensitive information. in the course of doing business, we collect large volumes of employee, customer and other third-party data, including personally identifiable information and individual credit data, for various business purposes. we are subject to federal, state and international laws (including the european union general data protection regulation which took effect in may 2018), as well as industry standards, relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personally identifiable information and individual credit data. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between the company and its subsidiaries, and among the company, its subsidiaries and other parties with which the company has commercial relations. several jurisdictions have passed laws in this area, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. these laws continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. complying with emerging and changing international requirements has caused, and may cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices. if we fail to comply with the various applicable data collection and privacy laws, we could be exposed to fines, penalties, restrictions, litigation or other expenses, and our business could be adversely impacted. while we continue to evolve our cyber-security practices in line with our business' reliance on technology and the changing external threat landscape, and we invest time, effort and financial resources to secure our systems, networks and communications, our security measures cannot provide absolute assurance that we will be successful in preventing or responding to all cyber-attacks. for example, in september 2018, we discovered instances of unauthorized access to a number of employee e-mail communications, some of which contained proprietary business and personally identifiable information. we have implemented additional safeguards, and we do not believe that we experienced any material losses related to this incident; however, there can be no assurance that this or any other breach or incident will not have a material impact on our operations and financial results in the future. any breach, theft, loss, or fraudulent use of guest, employee, third-party or company data, could adversely impact our reputation and brand and our ability to retain or attract new customers, and expose us to risks of data loss, business disruption, governmental investigation, litigation and other liability, any of which could adversely affect our business. significant capital investments and other expenditures could be required to remedy the problem and prevent future breaches, including costs associated with additional security technologies, personnel, experts and credit monitoring services for those whose data has been breached. further, if we or our vendors experience significant data security breaches or fail to detect and appropriately respond to significant data security breaches, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation. the potential unavailability of insurance coverage, an inability to obtain insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates or our failure to have coverage in sufficient amounts to cover our incurred losses may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we seek to maintain appropriate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates. we normally insure based on the cost of an asset rather than replacement value and we also elect to self-insure, co-insure, or use deductibles in certain circumstances for certain risks such as loss of use of a ship or a cyber-security breach. the limits of insurance coverage we purchase are based on the availability of the coverage, evaluation of our risk profile and cost of coverage. accordingly, we are not protected against all risks and we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred which could result in an unexpected decrease in our revenue and results of operations in the event of an incident. we are members of four protection and indemnity ("p&amp;i") clubs, which are part of a worldwide group of 13 p&amp;i clubs, known as the international group of p&amp;i clubs (the ig ). p&amp;i coverage provided by the clubs is on a mutual basis and we are subject to additional premium calls in the event of a catastrophic loss incurred by any member of the 13 p&amp;i clubs, whereby the reinsurance limits purchased by the ig are exhausted. we are also subject to additional premium calls based on investment and underwriting shortfalls experienced by our own individual insurers. 30 table of contents we cannot be certain that insurance and reinsurance coverage will be available to us and at commercially reasonable rates in the future or at all or, if available, that it will be sufficient to cover potential claims. additionally, if we or other insureds sustain significant losses, the result may be higher insurance premiums, cancellation of coverage, or the inability to obtain coverage. such events could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. environmental, labor, health and safety, financial responsibility and other maritime regulations could affect operations and increase operating costs. the united states and various state and foreign government or regulatory agencies have enacted or may enact environmental regulations or policies, such as requiring the use of low sulfur fuels, that could increase our direct cost to operate in certain markets, increase our cost for fuel, limit the supply of compliant fuel, cause us to incur significant expenses to purchase and/or develop new equipment and adversely impact the cruise vacation industry. while we have taken and expect to continue to take a number of actions to mitigate the potential impact of certain of these regulations, there can be no assurances that these efforts will be successful or completed on a timely basis. there is increasing global regulatory focus on climate change, greenhouse gas (ghg) and other emissions. these regulatory efforts, both internationally and in the united states are still developing, and we cannot yet determine what the final regulatory programs or their impact will be in any jurisdiction where we do business. however, such climate change-related regulatory activity in the future may adversely affect our business and financial results by requiring us to reduce our emissions, purchase allowances or otherwise pay for our emissions. such activity may also impact us by increasing our operating costs, including fuel costs. some environmental groups have also lobbied for more stringent regulation of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise vacation industry and its environmental impact. see item 1. business-regulation-environmental regulations . in addition, we are subject to various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties that govern, among other things, discharge from our ships, safety standards applicable to our ships, treatment of disabled persons, health and sanitary standards applicable to our guests, security standards on board our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities to our guests. these issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. this could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that could subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. a change in our tax status under the united states internal revenue code, or other jurisdictions, may have adverse effects on our income . we and a number of our subsidiaries are foreign corporations that derive income from a u.s. trade or business and/or from sources within the united states. drinker biddle &amp; reath llp, our u.s. tax counsel, has delivered to us an opinion, based on certain representations and assumptions set forth in it, to the effect that this income, to the extent derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, is excluded from gross income for u.s. federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 883 of the internal revenue code. we believe that most of our income (including that of our subsidiaries) is derived from or incidental to the international operation of ships. our ability to rely on section 883 could be challenged or could change in the future. provisions of the internal revenue code, including section 883, are subject to legislative change at any time. moreover, changes could occur in the future with respect to the identity, residence or holdings of our direct or indirect shareholders, trading volume or trading frequency of our shares, or relevant foreign tax laws of liberia such that it no longer qualifies as an equivalent exemption jurisdiction, that could affect our eligibility for the section 883 exemption. accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be exempt from u.s. income tax on u.s. source shipping income in the future. if we were not entitled to the benefit of section 883, we and our subsidiaries would be subject to u.s. taxation on a portion of the income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships, which would reduce our net income. additionally, portions of our business are operated by companies that are within the united kingdom tonnage tax regime. further, some of our operations are conducted in jurisdictions where we rely on tax treaties to provide exemption from taxation. to the extent the united kingdom tonnage tax laws change or we do not continue to meet 31 table of contents the applicable qualification requirements or if tax treaties are changed or revoked, we may be required to pay higher income tax in these jurisdictions, adversely impacting our results of operations. as budgetary constraints continue to adversely impact the jurisdictions in which we operate, increases in income tax regulations, tax audits or tax reform affecting our operations may be imposed. litigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and/or damage our reputation. our business is subject to various united states and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. in addition, improper conduct by our employees, agents or joint venture partners could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. in certain circumstances it may not be economical to defend against such matters and/or a legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. we are not a united states corporation and our shareholders may be subject to the uncertainties of a foreign legal system in protecting their interests. our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the business corporation act of liberia. the provisions of the business corporation act of liberia resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the united states. however, while most states have a fairly well developed body of case law interpreting their respective corporate statutes, there are very few judicial cases in liberia interpreting the business corporation act of liberia. as such, the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under liberian law are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in certain united states jurisdictions. for example, the right of shareholders to bring a derivative action in liberian courts may be more limited than in united states jurisdictions. there may also be practical difficulties for shareholders attempting to bring suit in liberia and liberian courts may or may not recognize and enforce foreign judgments. thus, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests with respect to actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a united states jurisdiction. provisions of our articles of incorporation, by-laws and liberian law could inhibit others from acquiring us, prevent a change of control, and may prevent efforts by our shareholders to change our management. certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws and liberian law may inhibit third parties from effectuating a change of control of the company without approval from our board of directors which could result in the entrenchment of current management. these include provisions in our articles of incorporation that prevent third parties, other than a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates, from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of our outstanding shares without the consent of our board of directors. 32 table of contents item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties information about our cruise ships, including their size and primary areas of operation, may be found within the operating strategies - fleet upgrade, maintenance and expansion section and the operations - cruise ships and itineraries sections in item 1 . business . information regarding our cruise ships under construction, estimated expenditures and financing may be found within the future capital commitments and funding needs and sources sections of item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our principal executive office and principal shoreside operations are located in leased office buildings at the port of miami, florida. we also lease a number of other offices in the u.s. and throughout europe, asia, mexico, south america and australia to administer our brand operations globally. we believe that our facilities are adequate for our current needs and that we are capable of obtaining additional facilities as necessary. we also operate two private destinations which we utilize as ports-of-call on certain itineraries: (i) an island we own in the bahamas which we call cococay; and (ii) labadee, a secluded peninsula we lease on the north coast of haiti. item 3. legal proceedings on september 24, 2018, a proposed class-action lawsuit was filed by roger and maureen carretta against royal caribbean cruises ltd. d/b/a royal caribbean international in the united states district court for the southern district of florida relating to the marketing and sales of our travel protection program. the plaintiffs purported to represent an alleged class of passengers who purchased the travel protection program. the complaint alleged that the company concealed that it received "kickbacks," in the form of undisclosed commissions on the sale of the travel insurance portion of the product from an underwriter, and allegedly improperly bundled travel insurance policies with non-insurance products. the complaint sought damages in an indeterminate amount. on november 26, 2018, the court dismissed the entire action with prejudice on the grounds that, among others, the claim was filed beyond the time limitations contained in the passenger ticket contract. plaintiffs did not appeal the decision and the time period for filing an appeal has lapsed. we are routinely involved in other claims typical within the cruise vacation industry. the majority of these claims are covered by insurance. we believe the outcome of such claims, net of expected insurance recoveries, will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations and cash flows. item 4. mine safety disclosures none. 33 table of contents part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities market information our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange ("nyse") under the symbol "rcl." holders as of february 14, 2019 , there were 1,398 record holders of our common stock. since certain of our shares are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of shareholders, the foregoing number is not representative of the number of beneficial owners. dividends holders of our common stock have an equal right to share in our profits in the form of dividends when and if declared by our board of directors out of funds legally available. holders of our common stock have no rights to any sinking fund. there are no exchange control restrictions on remittances of dividends on our common stock since (1) we are and intend to maintain our status as a nonresident liberian entity under the liberia revenue code of 2000 as amended and the regulations thereunder, and (2) our ship-owning subsidiaries are not now engaged, and are not in the future expected to engage, in any business in liberia, including voyages exclusively within the territorial waters of the republic of liberia. under current liberian law, no liberian taxes or withholding will be imposed on payments to holders of our securities other than to a holder that is a resident liberian entity or a resident individual or an individual or entity subject to taxation in liberia as a result of having a permanent establishment within the meaning of the liberia revenue code of 2000 as amended in liberia. the declaration of dividends shall at all times be subject to the final determination of our board of directors that a dividend is prudent at that time in consideration of the needs of the business. refer to note 11 . shareholders' equity to our consolidated financial statements under quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments and other general we are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and fuel prices. we try to mitigate these risks through a combination of our normal operating and financing activities and through the use of derivative financial instruments pursuant to our hedging practices and policies. the financial impact of these hedging instruments is primarily offset by corresponding changes in the underlying exposures being hedged. we achieve this by closely matching the amount, term and conditions of the derivative instrument with the underlying risk being hedged. although certain of our derivative financial instruments do not qualify or are not accounted for under hedge accounting, our objective is not to hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. (refer to note 17 . fair value measurements and derivative instruments to our consolidated financial statements underrisk factors 23 risk factors - conducting business globally may result in increased costs and other risks for a discussion of the risks associated with our international operations. cost efficiency, operating expenditures and adequate cash and liquidity we have adopted a number of strategies to control our operating costs and will continue to do so in 2020. for example, we have adopted numerous initiatives to reduce energy consumption and, by extension, fuel costs. these include the design of more energy-efficient ships as well as the implementation of more efficient hardware, including improvements in operations and voyage planning as well as improvements to the propulsion, machinery, hvac and lighting systems. the overall impact of these efforts has resulted in an approximate 35% improvement in energy efficiency from 2005 through 2019 and we believe that our energy consumption per guest is currently the lowest in the cruise industry. in order to sustain our competitive advantage, we will continue to seek to lead with innovative technologies and commit to achieve our short and long-term sustainability goals. we are focused on maintaining a strong liquidity position, investment grade credit metrics and a balanced debt maturity profile. we believe these strategies enhance our ability to achieve our overall goal of maximizing our long-term shareholder value. fleet upgrade, maintenance and expansion we place a strong focus on innovation, which we seek to achieve by introducing new concepts on our new ships and continuously making improvements to our fleet through modernization projects. several of these innovations have become signature elements of our brands. for the royal caribbean international brand, we introduced the royal promenade (a boulevard with shopping, dining and entertainment venues) and interior balconies on the oasis class ships and a two-level family suite on symphony of the seas . for the celebrity cruises brand, we enhanced many of the brand's design features through the introduction of the solstice class ships. more recently, with the introduction of celebrity edge , we introduced the "magic carpet" (a cantilevered, floating platform that reaches a height of 13 stories above sea level and can serve as a dining venue, full bar and platform for live music) and newly designed staterooms with an "infinite veranda" where, with the touch of a button, the veranda becomes part of the entire living space. in 2018, the royal caribbean international and celebrity cruises brands announced the "royal amplified" and "celebrity revolution" modernization programs to upgrade vessels across their fleet. as part of these modernization programs, we incorporate certain innovations included in our newer ships to some of the ships in the remaining fleet. the process of integrating some of our latest innovations into our older vessels allows us to create a greater level of consistency of product across our fleet. as part of the newbuild and modernization programs, we also seek to bring innovations in the areas of safety, reliability and energy efficiency to our fleet. we are committed to building state-of-the-art ships at a moderate growth rate and we believe our success in this area provides us with a competitive advantage. our newer vessels traditionally generate higher revenue yield premiums and are more efficient to operate than older vessels. as of december 31, 2019, our global brands and partner brands have 17 ships on order. refer to the operations section below for further information on our ships on order. in addition, we regularly evaluate opportunities to order new ships, purchase existing ships or sell ships in our current fleet while ensuring that we remain focused on the returns we generate on invested capital and maintaining a high level of discipline on capital spending and operating leverage. in the current environment of high industry 8 table of c ontents demand, we have placed new ship orders earlier than we have historically done as well as more aggressively sought to sell older capacity. markets and itineraries in an effort to penetrate untapped markets, diversify our consumer base and respond to changing economic and geopolitical market conditions, we continue to seek opportunities to deploy ships to new and stronger markets and itineraries throughout the world. the portability of our ships allows us to deploy our ships to meet demand within our existing cruise markets. we make deployment decisions generally 18 to 28 months in advance, with the goal of optimizing the overall profitability of our portfolio. additionally, the infrastructure investments we have made to create a flexible global sourcing model have made our brands relevant in a number of markets around the world, which allows us to be opportunistic and source the highest yielding guests for our itineraries. our ships offer a wide selection of itineraries that call on more than 1,000 destinations in 126 countries, spanning all seven continents. we are focused on obtaining the best possible long-term shareholder returns by operating in established markets while growing our presence in developing markets. new capacity allows us to expand into new markets and itineraries. our brands have expanded their mix of itineraries while strengthening our ability to further penetrate the asian and australian markets. the acquisition of silversea cruises added more than 500 new destinations allowing us to expand and enhance our selection of exotic itineraries. destination experiences and port facilities additionally, in order to provide unique destination experiences to our guests, we are investing in our private land destinations. for instance, in 2018, we announced perfect day island collection, an initiative to develop a series of private island destinations around the world. the first island in the collection, perfect day at cococay, opened in spring 2019 and includes a wide range of attractions, such as a water park, zip line and wave and freshwater pool. the second island in the collection, perfect day at lelepa, is scheduled to open in 2022 and will offer its own unique experience. in 2019, we also announced the launch of a royal beach club initiative to bring the unique features and cultures of each destination to life. the first will be royal beach club in antigua, launching 2021. in an effort to secure desirable berthing facilities for our ships, and to provide new or enhanced cruise destinations for our guests, we actively assist or invest in the development or enhancement of certain port facilities and infrastructure, including mixed-use commercial properties, located in strategic ports of call. for instance, a new homeport cruise terminal of approximately 170,000 square feet was completed at portmiami in miami, florida in 2018 and we are building a new homeport cruise terminal in galveston, texas of approximately 140,000 square feet to be completed in 2021. generally, we collaborate with local, private or governmental entities by providing management and/or financial assistance and often enter into long-term port usage arrangements. our participation in these efforts is generally accomplished via investments with the relevant government authority and/or various other strategic partnerships established to develop and/or operate the port facilities, by providing direct development and management expertise or in certain limited circumstances, by providing direct or indirect financial support. in exchange for our involvement, we generally secure preferential berthing rights for our ships. technological capabilities technology is a pervasive part of virtually every business process we use to support our strategic focus and provide a quality experience to our customers before, during and after their cruise. in past years, we have continued to integrate digital capabilities into our operations and have increased our focus in bringing in data analytics and artificial intelligence into our processes. for example, we have continued the deployment of our innovative guest journey solutions across our fleet from online check-in to port embarkation to onboard cruise experience. at the same time, we are investing in shipboard operational technology to facilitate casino play, hotel maintenance, as well as the optimization of marine maintenance. in concert with our destination focus, our island technology solutions are now enabling our guests to remain connected with wifi access, order food and beverage as well as take advantage of all the island based activities with the same ease as onboard our ships. 9 table of c ontents investments in our core platforms, as well as the trade and direct distribution channels, are delivering the benefit of more modernized solutions with scalability and faster self-service response times while also deploying new features such as flight packages and additional promotional offer capabilities. cyber security and data privacy are an ongoing focus, and we have made and will continue to make investments to protect our customer data, intellectual property and global operations. travel agency support and consumer outreach travel agencies continue to be the primary source of ticket sales for our ships. we believe in the value of this distribution channel and invest in maintaining strong relationships with our travel partners. to accomplish this goal, we seek to ensure that our commission rates and incentive structures remain competitive with the marketplace. we continuously work with travel agencies to sell upgrades and add-ons such as air and pre-cruise purchases to improve the retention and profitability of the channel. we provide brand dedicated sales representatives who serve as consultants to our travel partners. we also provide trained customer service representatives, call centers and online training tools. in addition, we continue to operate our consumer outreach department, which provides consumers 24-hour access to our vacation planners and customer service agents in our call centers. in addition, we maintain and invest in our websites, including mobile applications and mobile websites. we enable our guests to communicate and book with us through various channels such as phone, web, chat, text message, and/or email. we also have a robust onboard cruise sales department to help guests to book their next cruise vacations while onboard our ships. guest services we offer to handle virtually all travel aspects related to guest reservations and transportation, including arranging guest pre- and post-hotel stay arrangements and air transportation. royal caribbean international, celebrity cruises, azamara and silversea cruises offer recognition and status upgrades to their guests through their loyalty programs, crown &amp; anchor society, captain's club, le club voyage and venetian society, respectively, to encourage repeat business. crown &amp; anchor society has approximately 16 million members worldwide. captain's club, le club voyage and venetian society have approximately 4.8 million members combined worldwide. members are recognized through increasing membership status by accumulating cruise points or credits, depending on the brand, which may be redeemed on future sailings. members are awarded points or credits in proportion to the number of cruise days and stateroom category. the loyalty programs provide tiers of membership benefits which entitle guests to upgraded experiences and recognition relative to the status achieved once the guests have accumulated the number of cruise points or credits specified for each tier. in addition, upon achieving a certain level of cruise points or credits, members benefit from reciprocal membership benefits across all of our loyalty programs. examples of the benefits available under our loyalty programs include, but are not limited to, priority ship embarkation, priority waitlist for shore excursions, complimentary laundry service, complimentary internet, booklets with onboard discount offers, upgraded bathroom amenities, private seating on the pool deck, ship tours and, in the case of our most loyal guests who have achieved the highest levels of cruise points or credits, complimentary cruise days. we regularly work to enhance each of our loyalty programs by adding new features and amenities in order to reward our repeat guests. 10 table of c ontents operations cruise ships and itineraries as of december 31, 2019, our global brands and partner brands collectively operated 61 ships with a selection of worldwide itineraries that call on more than 1,000 destinations. the following table presents summary information concerning the ships we expect to operate in 2020 under our global brands and partner brands and their geographic areas of operation based on current 2020 itineraries (subject to change). ship year ship built year ship entered/will enter service (1) approximate berths primary areas of operation royal caribbean international odyssey of the seas 2020 2020 4,200 eastern/western caribbean spectrum of the seas 2019 2019 4,250 eastern asia symphony of the seas 2018 2018 5,500 eastern/western caribbean harmony of the seas 2016 2016 5,450 eastern/western caribbean ovation of the seas 2016 2016 4,100 australia, alaska anthem of the seas 2015 2015 4,100 southern caribbean, bahamas, europe quantum of the seas 2014 2014 4,150 eastern asia allure of the seas 2010 2010 5,450 eastern/western caribbean, europe oasis of the seas 2009 2009 5,650 eastern/western caribbean, bahamas independence of the seas 2008 2008 3,850 western caribbean, bahamas liberty of the seas 2007 2007 3,750 western caribbean freedom of the seas 2006 2006 3,750 southern caribbean jewel of the seas 2004 2004 2,150 western caribbean, europe, middle east mariner of the seas 2003 2003 3,300 bahamas serenade of the seas 2003 2003 2,100 southern caribbean, alaska, australia navigator of the seas 2002 2002 3,350 bahamas brilliance of the seas 2002 2002 2,100 western caribbean, europe, canada adventure of the seas 2001 2001 3,300 eastern/western caribbean, bermuda, canada radiance of the seas 2001 2001 2,100 australia, alaska explorer of the seas 2000 2000 3,250 europe, western/southern caribbean voyager of the seas 1999 1999 3,400 eastern asia, australia vision of the seas 1998 1998 2,000 southern caribbean, europe, canada enchantment of the seas 1997 1997 2,250 southern/western caribbean, bahamas rhapsody of the seas 1997 1997 2,000 western caribbean, europe grandeur of the seas (2) 1996 1996 1,950 bahamas, southern caribbean, bermuda, canada majesty of the seas 1992 1992 2,350 western caribbean, bahamas empress of the seas 1990 2016 1,550 eastern/western caribbean, canada, bermuda celebrity cruises celebrity apex 2020 2020 2,900 europe, eastern/western caribbean celebrity flora 2019 2019 100 galapagos islands celebrity edge 2018 2018 2,900 eastern/western caribbean, europe 11 table of c ontents ship year ship built year ship entered/will enter service (1) approximate berths primary areas of operation celebrity reflection 2012 2012 3,000 southern caribbean, europe celebrity silhouette 2011 2011 2,850 southern caribbean, europe celebrity eclipse 2010 2010 2,850 south america, alaska celebrity equinox 2009 2009 2,850 eastern/western caribbean celebrity solstice 2008 2008 2,850 australia, alaska celebrity xploration 2007 2016 20 galapagos islands celebrity constellation 2002 2002 2,150 middle east, india, europe, caribbean celebrity summit 2001 2001 2,200 southern caribbean, bermuda, canada celebrity infinity 2001 2001 2,150 western caribbean, bahamas, europe celebrity xpedition 2001 2004 50 galapagos islands celebrity millennium 2000 2000 2,200 eastern asia, alaska celebrity xperience 1982 2016 50 galapagos islands azamara azamara pursuit 2001 2018 700 south america, europe azamara quest 2000 2007 700 australia, asia, alaska azamara journey 2000 2007 700 europe silversea cruises (3) silver origin 2020 2020 100 galapagos islands silver moon 2020 2020 550 europe, caribbean silver muse 2017 2017 550 australia, asia, alaska silver spirit 2009 2009 500 southern caribbean, europe, asia silver whisper 2001 2001 350 southern caribbean, europe silver shadow 2000 2000 350 asia, europe, southern caribbean silver wind 1995 1995 250 southern caribbean, europe, canada silver cloud 1994 1994 250 south america, europe silver galapagos 1990 2013 100 galapagos islands silver explorer 1989 2008 100 south america, europe pullmantur (4) monarch 1991 2013 2,350 southern caribbean horizon 1990 2010 1,400 middle east, europe sovereign 1988 2008 2,300 south america, europe tui cruises mein schiff 2 (5) 2019 2019 2,900 europe, southern caribbean mein schiff 1 2018 2018 2,850 europe, canada, western caribbean mein schiff 6 2017 2017 2,500 western caribbean, europe, asia mein schiff 5 2016 2016 2,500 southern caribbean, europe, middle east mein schiff 4 2015 2015 2,500 middle east, europe mein schiff 3 2014 2014 2,500 asia, europe mein schiff herz 1997 2011 1,850 europe total 149,320 __________________________________________________________________ (1) the year a ship entered service refers to the year in which the ship commenced or is expected to commence cruise revenue operations for the brand. (2) commencing in the second quarter of 2021, grandeur of the seas is planned to no longer operate under the royal caribbean international brand and we expect to lease the ship to pullmantur. 12 table of c ontents (3) during 2019, the lease for discover was terminated. (4) in january 2020, we sold zenith to a third party. (5) tui cruises' newbuild entered service as mein schiff 2 in february 2019 and the existing mein schiff 2 was renamed mein schiff herz . as of december 31, 2019, our global brands and our partner brands have 17 ships on order. three ships on order are being built in germany by meyer werft gmbh, four are being built in finland by meyer turku shipyard, five are being built in france by chantiers de l'atlantique (formerly known as stx france), four are being built in italy by fincantieri and one is being built in the netherlands by de hoop lobith. as of december 31, 2019, the expected dates that the ships on order will enter service, subject to change in the event of construction delays, and their approximate berths are as follows: ship shipyard expected to enter service approximate berths royal caribbean international oasis-class: wonder of the seas chantiers de l'atlantique 2nd quarter 2021 5,700 unnamed chantiers de l'atlantique 4th quarter 2023 5,700 quantum-class: odyssey of the seas meyer werft 4th quarter 2020 4,200 icon-class: unnamed meyer turku oy 2nd quarter 2022 5,600 unnamed meyer turku oy 2nd quarter 2024 5,600 unnamed meyer turku oy 2nd quarter 2025 5,600 celebrity cruises edge-class: celebrity apex chantiers de l'atlantique 2nd quarter 2020 2,900 celebrity beyond chantiers de l'atlantique 4th quarter 2021 3,250 unnamed chantiers de l'atlantique 4th quarter 2022 3,250 silversea cruises (1) silver origin de hoop 3rd quarter 2020 100 muse-class: silver moon fincantieri 3rd quarter 2020 550 silver dawn fincantieri 3rd quarter 2021 550 evolution-class: unnamed meyer werft 1st quarter 2022 600 unnamed meyer werft 1st quarter 2023 600 tui cruises (50% joint venture) mein schiff 7 meyer turku oy 2nd quarter 2023 2,900 unnamed fincantieri 3rd quarter 2024 4,100 unnamed fincantieri 1st quarter 2026 4,100 total berths 55,300 __________________________________________________________________ (1) the revenue impact from silversea cruises' new ships will be recognized on a three month reporting lag from the "expected to enter service" dates above. refer to note 1. general to our consolidated financial statements under item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for further information. in addition, as of december 31, 2019, we have an agreement in place with chantiers de l'atlantique to build an additional edge-class ship for delivery in the 4th quarter of 2024, which is contingent upon completion of conditions precedent and financing. 13 table of c ontents seasonality our revenues are seasonal based on the demand for cruises. demand is strongest for cruises during the northern hemisphere's summer months and holidays. in order to mitigate the impact of the winter weather in the northern hemisphere and to capitalize on the summer season in the southern hemisphere, our brands have focused on deployment in the caribbean, asia and australia during that period. passengers and capacity selected statistical information is shown in the following table (see financial presentation - description of certain line items and selected operational and financial metrics under item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , for definitions): year ended december 31, 2019 (1) 2018 (2) 2017 2016 (3) 2015 passengers carried 6,553,865 6,084,201 5,768,496 5,754,747 5,401,899 passenger cruise days 44,803,953 41,853,052 40,033,527 40,250,557 38,523,060 available passenger cruise days (apcd) 41,432,451 38,425,304 36,930,939 37,844,644 36,646,639 occupancy 108.1% 108.9% 108.4% 106.4% 105.1% ___________________________________________________________________ (1) as a result of the three-month reporting lag, we included silversea cruises' results of operations from october 1, 2018 through september 30, 2019 for the twelve months ended december 31, 2019. refer to note 1. general and note 3. b usiness combination to our consolidated financial statements under item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for more information on the three-month reporting lag and the silversea cruises acquisition. (2) we acquired silversea cruises on july 31, 2018 and report their results on a three-month reporting lag. as a result, these amounts include only august and september 2018 amounts for silversea cruises. refer to note 1. general and note 3. business combination to our consolidated financial statements under item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for more information on the three-month reporting lag and the silversea cruises acquisition. (3) these amounts do not include november and december 2015 amounts for pullmantur as the net pullmantur result for those months was included within other expense in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss) for the year ended december 31, 2016, as a result of the elimination of the pullmantur two-month reporting lag, and did not affect gross yields, net yields, gross cruise costs, net cruise costs and net cruise costs excluding fuel. additionally, effective august 2016, following the sale of our 51% interest in pullmantur holdings, we no longer include pullmantur in these amounts. cruise pricing our cruise ticket prices include accommodations and a wide variety of activities and amenities, including meals and entertainment. prices vary depending on many factors including the destination, cruise length, stateroom category selected and the time of year the cruise takes place. although we grant credit terms in select markets mainly outside of the united states, our payment terms generally require an upfront deposit to confirm a reservation, with the balance due prior to the sailing. our cruises are generally available for sale at least one year in advance and often more than two years in advance of sailing. during the selling period of a cruise, we continually monitor and adjust our cruise ticket prices for available guest staterooms based on demand, with the objective of maximizing net yields. as we grow our business globally, our sale arrangements with travel agents may vary. for instance, although our direct business is growing at a rapid pace, sale arrangements through travel agent charter and group sales are proportionately higher in the china market than in our other markets which are primarily through retail agency and direct sales. we have developed and implemented enhancements to our reservations system that provide us and our travel partners with additional capabilities, making it easier to do business with us. for example, we offer air transportation to our guests through our air transportation program available in major cities around the world. passenger ticket revenues accounted for approximately 72% of total revenues in 2019, 2018 and 2017. 14 table of c ontents onboard activities and other revenues our cruise brands offer modern fleets with a wide array of onboard services, amenities and activities which vary by brand and ship. while many onboard activities are included in the base price of a cruise, we realize additional revenues from, among other things, gaming, the sale of alcoholic and other beverages, internet and other telecommunication services, gift shop items, shore excursions, photography, spa/salon and fitness services, art auctions, retail shops and a wide variety of specialty restaurants and dining options. many of these services are available for pre-booking prior to embarkation. these activities are provided either directly by us or by independent concessionaires from which we receive a percentage of their revenues. in conjunction with our cruise vacations, we offer pre- and post-cruise hotel packages to our royal caribbean international, celebrity cruises, azamara and silversea cruises guests. we also offer cruise vacation protection coverage to guests in a number of markets, which provides guests with coverage for trip cancellation, medical protection and baggage protection. onboard and other revenues accounted for approximately 28% of total revenues in 2019, 2018 and 2017. segment reporting we control and operate four cruise brands, royal caribbean international, celebrity cruises, azamara, and silversea cruises. in addition, we have a 50% investment in a joint venture with tui ag which operates the german brand tui cruises and a 49% interest in the spanish brand pullmantur. we believe our brands possess the versatility to enter multiple cruise market segments within the cruise vacation industry. although each of our brands has its own marketing style as well as ships and crews of various sizes, the nature of the products sold and services delivered by our brands share a common base (i.e., the sale and provision of cruise vacations). our brands also have similar itineraries as well as similar cost and revenue components. in addition, our brands source passengers from similar markets around the world and operate in similar economic environments with a significant degree of commercial overlap. as a result, our brands have been aggregated as a single reportable segment based on the similarity of their economic characteristics, types of consumers, regulatory environment, maintenance requirements, supporting systems and processes as well as products and services provided. our chairman and chief executive officer has been identified as the chief operating decision-maker and all significant operating decisions including the allocation of resources are based upon the analyses of the company as one segment. ( for financial information, see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data .) employees as of december 31, 2019, our global brands employed approximately 85,400 employees, including 77,000 shipboard employees as well as 8,200 full-time and 100 part-time employees in our shoreside operations. as of december 31, 2019, approximately 89% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. insurance we maintain insurance on the hull and machinery of our ships, with insured values generally equal to the net book value of each ship. this coverage is maintained with reputable insurance underwriters from the british, scandinavian, french, united states and other reputable international insurance markets. we are members of four protection and indemnity ("p&amp;i") clubs, which are part of a worldwide group of 13 p&amp;i clubs, known as the international group of p&amp;i clubs (the ig ). liabilities, costs and expenses for illness and injury to crew, guest injury, pollution and other third-party claims in connection with our cruise activities are covered by our p&amp;i clubs, subject to the clubs' rules and the limits of coverage determined by the ig. p&amp;i coverage provided by the clubs is on a mutual basis and we are subject to additional premium calls in the event of a catastrophic loss incurred by any member of the 13 p&amp;i clubs, whereby the reinsurance limits purchased by the ig are exhausted. we are also subject to additional premium calls based on investment and underwriting shortfalls experienced by our own individual insurers. we maintain war risk insurance for legal liability to crew, guests and other third parties as well as for loss or damage to our vessels arising from acts of war, including invasion, insurrection, terrorism, rebellion, piracy and 15 table of c ontents hijacking. our primary war risk coverage is provided by a norwegian war risk insurance association and our excess war risk insurance is provided by our four p&amp;i clubs. consistent with most marine war risk policies, our coverage is subject to cancellation in the event of a change in risk. in the event of a war between major powers, our primary policies terminate after thirty days' notice and our excess policies terminate immediately. our excess policies are also subject to cancellation after a notice period of seven days in the event of other changes in risk. these notice periods allow for premiums to be renegotiated based on changes in risk. insurance coverage for other exposures, such as shoreside property and casualty, passenger off-vessel, directors and officers and network security and privacy, are maintained with various global insurance companies. we do not carry business interruption insurance for our ships based on our evaluation of the risks involved and protective measures already in place, as compared to the cost of insurance. all insurance coverage is subject to certain limitations, exclusions and deductible levels. in addition, in certain circumstances, we either self-insure or co-insure a portion of these risks. premiums charged by insurance carriers, including carriers in the maritime insurance industry, increase or decrease from time to time and tend to be cyclical in nature. these cycles are impacted both by our own loss experience and by losses incurred in direct and reinsurance markets. we historically have been able to obtain insurance coverage in amounts and at premiums we have deemed to be commercially acceptable. no assurance can be given that affordable and secure insurance markets will be available to us in the future, particularly for war risk insurance. trademarks we own a number of registered trademarks related to the royal caribbean international, celebrity cruises, azamara and silversea cruises cruise brands. the registered trademarks include the name royal caribbean international and its crown and anchor logo, the name celebrity cruises and its x logo, the name azamara and its "open world" and "star logo", the name silversea cruises and its logo, and the names of various cruise ships, ship venues and other marketing programs. we believe our largest brands' trademarks are widely recognized throughout the world and have considerable value. the duration of trademark registrations varies from country to country. however, trademarks are generally valid and may be renewed indefinitely as long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained. regulation our ships are regulated by various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties in force in the jurisdictions in which they operate. in addition, our ships are registered in the bahamas, malta or in the case of our ships operating in the galapagos islands, ecuador. each ship is subject to regulations issued by its country of registry, including regulations issued pursuant to international treaties governing the safety of our ships, guests and crew as well as environmental protection. each country of registry conducts periodic inspections to verify compliance with these regulations as discussed more fully below. ships operating out of ports of call around the world are also subject to inspection by the maritime authorities of that country for compliance with international treaties and local regulations. additionally, ships operating out of the united states ports are subject to inspection by the united states coast guard for compliance with international treaties and by the united states public health service for sanitary and health conditions. our ships are also subject to similar inspections pursuant to the laws and regulations of various other countries our ships visit. we believe that we are in material compliance with all the regulations applicable to our ships and that we have all licenses necessary to conduct our business. health, safety, security, environmental and financial responsibility issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant government authorities in the united states and internationally. from time to time, various regulatory and legislative changes may be proposed that could impact our operations and subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. safety and security regulations our ships are required to comply with international safety standards defined in the international convention for safety of life at sea ( solas ), which, among other things, establishes requirements for ship design, structural features, materials, construction, lifesaving equipment and safe management and operation of ships to ensure guest and crew safety. the solas standards are revised from time to time and changes are incorporated into the 16 table of c ontents operation of our ships. compliance with these modified standards have not historically had a material effect on our operating costs. solas incorporates the international safety management code ( ism code ), which provides an international standard for the safe management and operation of ships and for pollution prevention. the ism code is mandatory for all vessels, including passenger vessel operators. all of our operations and ships are regularly audited by various national authorities, and we are required to maintain the relevant certificates of compliance with the ism code. our ships are subject to various security requirements, including the international ship and port facility security code ( isps code ), which is part of solas, and the u.s. maritime transportation security act of 2002 ( mtsa ), which applies to ships that operate in u.s. ports. in order to satisfy these security requirements, we implement security measures, conduct vessel security assessments, and develop security plans. the security plans for all of our ships have been submitted to and approved by the recognized security organization on behalf of the ships' flag state and are in compliance with the isps code and the mtsa. the cruise vessel security and safety act of 2010, which applies to passenger vessels which embark or include port stops within the united states, requires the implementation of certain safety design features as well as the establishment of practices for the reporting of and dealing with allegations of crime. the cruise industry supported this legislation and we believe that our internal standards are generally as strict or stricter than the law requires. some provisions of the act call for regulations which have not been finalized. we do not expect the pending regulations will have a material impact to our operations. environmental regulations we are subject to various international and national laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. under such laws and regulations, we are generally prohibited from discharging materials other than food waste into the waterways. we have made, and will continue to make, capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental laws and regulations. from time to time, environmental and other regulators consider more stringent regulations, which may affect our operations and increase our compliance costs. we believe that the impact of ships on the global environment will continue to be an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world and, accordingly, may subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future, including the items described below. our ships are subject to the international maritime organization's ( imo'') regulations under the international convention for the prevention of pollution from ships (the marpol regulations'') and the international convention for the control and management of ships ballast water and sediments (ballast water management convention), in addition to other regional and national regulations such as eu directives and the us vessel general permit, which includes requirements designed to minimize pollution by oil, sewage, garbage, air emissions and the transfer of non-native/non-indigenous species. we have obtained the relevant international compliance certificates relating to oil, sewage, air pollution prevention and ballast water for all of our ships. the marpol regulations imposed reduced global limitations on the sulfur content of emissions emitted by ships operating worldwide to 0.5% as of january 1, 2020, which was reduced from 3.5% . we do not expect that this increased limitation will have a material impact to our results of operations largely due to a number of mitigating steps we have taken over the last several years, including equipping all of our new ships delivered during or after 2014 with advanced emissions purification ("aep") systems covering all engines and actively developing and installing aep systems on the majority of our remaining fleet. the marpol regulations also establish special emission control areas ( ecas'') with additional stringent limitations on sulfur emissions in these areas. there are four established ecas that restrict sulfur emissions: the baltic sea, the north sea/english channel, certain waters surrounding the north american coast, and the waters surrounding puerto rico and the u.s. virgin islands (the caribbean eca ). ships operating in these sulfur ecas have been required to reduce their emissions sulfur content to 0.1%. this reduction has not had a significant impact on our results of operations to date due to the mitigating steps described above. we continue to implement our aep system strategy for both our ships on order and our existing fleet. as our new ships are delivered and additional existing ships are retrofitted with aep systems, they will provide us with additional operational and deployment flexibility. 17 table of c ontents additionally, all new ships operating within the north american and u.s. caribbean sea eca that began construction after january 1, 2016 are required to meet more stringent nitrogen oxide emission limits. we comply with these rules for those relevant ships in service. as an added measure, all of our ships under construction are being built to comply with these rules. the rules have not had and are not expected to have a significant impact to our operations or costs. effective july 1, 2015, the european commission adopted legislation that requires cruise ship operators with ships visiting ports in the european union to monitor and report on the ship's annual carbon dioxide emissions starting in 2018. additionally, in 2019, the imo's monitoring and reporting system (imo data and collection system), which is applicable to all ship itineraries, entered into force. while compliance with these regulations did not materially impact our costs or results of operations, the legislations contemplate further obligations and restrictions which could ultimately result in additional costs or charges associated with carbon dioxide emissions. the imo ballast water management convention, which came in effect in 2017, requires ships that carry and discharge ballast water to meet specific discharge standards by installing ballast water treatment systems by 2023. compliance with this regulation has not had a material effect on our results of operations and we do not expect the continuing compliance with this regulation to have a material effect on our results of operations. refer to item 1a. risk factors - "environmental, labor, health and safety, financial responsibility and other maritime regulations could affect operations and increase costs" for further discussion of the risks associated with the regulations discussed above . consumer financial responsibility regulations we are required to obtain certificates from the united states federal maritime commission relating to our ability to satisfy liability in cases of non-performance of obligations to guests, as well as casualty and personal injury. as a condition to obtaining the required certificates, we generally arrange through our insurers for the provision of surety for our ship-operating companies. the required amount is currently $32.0 million per operator and is subject to additional consumer price index based adjustments. we are also required by the united kingdom, norway, finland and the baltics to establish our financial responsibility for any liability resulting from the non-performance of our obligations to guests from these jurisdictions. in the united kingdom we are currently required by the association of british travel agents to provide performance bonds totaling approximately 82 million. additionally, we were required by the civil aviation authority to provide performance bonds totaling 8 million. the norwegian travel guarantee fund requires us to maintain performance bonds in varying amounts during the course of the year to cover our financial responsibility in norway, finland and the baltics. these amounts ranged from nok 32 million to nok 57 million during 2019. certain other jurisdictions also require that we establish financial responsibility to our guests resulting from the non-performance of our obligations; however, the related amounts do not have a material effect on our costs. taxation of the company the following is a summary of our principal taxes, exemptions and special regimes. in addition to or instead of income taxation, virtually all jurisdictions where our ships call impose some tax or fee, or both, based on guest headcount, tonnage or some other measure. we also collect and remit value added tax (vat) or sales tax in many jurisdictions where we operate. our consolidated operations are primarily foreign corporations engaged in the owning and operating of passenger cruise ships in international transportation. u.s. income taxation the following is a discussion of the application of the u.s. federal and state income tax laws to us and is based on the current provisions of the u.s. internal revenue code, treasury department regulations, administrative rulings, court decisions and the relevant state tax laws, regulations, rulings and court decisions of the states where we have business operations. all of the foregoing is subject to change, and any such change could affect the accuracy of this discussion. 18 table of c ontents application of section 883 of the internal revenue code we, celebrity cruises, inc. and silversea cruises ltd. are engaged in a trade or business in the united states, and many of our ship-owning subsidiaries, depending upon the itineraries of their ships, receive income from sources within the united states. additionally, our united kingdom tonnage tax company is a ship-operating company classified as a disregarded entity for u.s. federal income tax purposes that may earn u.s. source income. under section 883 of the internal revenue code, certain foreign corporations may exclude from gross income (and effectively from branch profits tax as such earnings do not give rise to effectively connected earnings and profits) u.s. source income derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, including income from the leasing of such ships. a foreign corporation will qualify for the benefits of section 883 if, in relevant part: (1) the foreign country in which the foreign corporation is organized grants an equivalent exemption to corporations organized in the united states; and (2) the stock of the corporation (or the direct or indirect corporate parent thereof) is primarily and regularly traded on an established securities market in the united states. in the opinion of our u.s. tax counsel, drinker biddle &amp; reath llp, based on the representations and assumptions set forth in that opinion, we, celebrity cruises inc., silversea cruises ltd. and relevant ship-owning subsidiaries with u.s. source shipping income qualify for the benefits of section 883 because we and each of those subsidiaries are incorporated in liberia or bahamas, which are qualifying countries, and our common stock is primarily and regularly traded on an established securities market in the united states (i.e., we are a "publicly traded" corporation). if, in the future, (1) liberia or bahamas no longer qualify as equivalent exemption jurisdictions, and we do not reincorporate in a jurisdiction that does qualify for the exemption, or (2) we fail to qualify as a publicly traded corporation, we and all of our ship-owning or operating subsidiaries that rely on section 883 to exclude qualifying income from gross income would be subject to u.s. federal income tax on their u.s. source shipping income and income from activities incidental thereto. we believe that most of our income and the income of our ship-owning subsidiaries, including our u.k. tonnage tax company which is considered a division for u.s. tax purposes, is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships and, therefore, is exempt from taxation under section 883. regulations under section 883 list activities that are not considered by the internal revenue service to be incidental to the international operation of ships including the sale of air and land transportation, shore excursions and pre- and post-cruise tours. our income from these activities that is earned from sources within the united states will be subject to u.s. taxation. taxation in the absence of an exemption under section 883 if we, the operator of our vessels, celebrity cruises inc., silversea cruises ltd., or our ship-owning subsidiaries were to fail to meet the requirements of section 883 of the internal revenue code, or if the provision was repealed, then, as explained below, such companies would be subject to u.s. income taxation on a portion of their income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships. because we, celebrity cruises inc. and silversea cruises ltd. conduct a trade or business in the united states, we, celebrity cruises inc. and silversea cruises ltd. would be taxable at regular corporate rates on our separate company taxable income (i.e., without regard to the income of our ship-owning subsidiaries) on income which is effectively connected with our u.s. trade or business (generally only income from u.s. sources). in addition, if any of our earnings and profits effectively connected with our u.s. trade or business were withdrawn, or were deemed to have been withdrawn, from our u.s. trade or business, those withdrawn amounts would be subject to a branch profits tax at the rate of 30%. we, celebrity cruises inc. and silversea cruises ltd. would also be potentially subject to tax on portions of certain interest paid by us at rates of up to 30%. if section 883 were not available to our ship-owning subsidiaries, each such subsidiary would be subject to a special 4% tax on its u.s. source gross transportation income, if any, each year because it does not have a fixed place of business in the united states and its income is derived from the leasing of a ship. 19 table of c ontents other united states taxation we, celebrity cruises inc. and silversea cruises ltd. earn u.s. source income from activities not considered incidental to international shipping. the tax on such income is not material to our results of operation for all years presented. state taxation we, celebrity cruises inc., silversea cruises ltd. and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to various u.s. state income taxes which are generally imposed on each state's portion of the u.s. source income subject to federal income taxes. additionally, the state of alaska subjects an allocated portion of the total income of companies doing business in alaska and certain other affiliated companies to alaska corporate state income taxes and also imposes a 33% tax on adjusted gross income from onboard gambling activities conducted in alaska waters. this did not have a material impact to our results of operations for all years presented. 2017 tax cuts and jobs act on december 22, 2017, the tax cuts and jobs act was signed into law. among other things, the new legislation reduced the federal corporate income tax rate to 21% from 35%, resulting in an immaterial benefit in 2017 related to the reduction of our u.s. deferred tax liability. although there are a number of provisions which apply to us, there was no material impact to our overall tax expense as a result of the legislation. maltese and spanish income taxation effective july 31, 2016, we sold 51% of our interest in pullmantur holdings s.l. ("pullmantur holdings"), the parent company of the pullmantur brand. we account for our retained investment under the equity method of accounting. there was no tax impact to us as a result of this sale transaction. the pullmantur group continues to be subject to the tax laws of spain and malta, among others. under the sale agreement, we remain responsible for pre-sale tax matters with respect to years that are still open under the statute of limitations. united kingdom income taxation during the year ended december 31, 2019, we operated 16 ships under the united kingdom tonnage tax regime ( u.k. tonnage tax ). companies subject to u.k. tonnage tax pay a corporate tax on a notional profit determined with reference to the net tonnage of qualifying vessels. the requirements for a company to qualify for the u.k. tonnage tax regime include being subject to u.k. corporate income tax, operating qualifying ships, which are strategically and commercially managed in the united kingdom, and fulfilling a seafarer training requirement. relevant shipping profits include income from the operation of qualifying ships and from shipping related activities. our u.k. income from non-shipping activities which do not qualify under the u.k. tonnage tax regime and which are not considered significant, remain subject to regular u.k. corporate income tax. chinese taxation our u.k. tonnage tax company operates ships in international transportation in china. the income earned from this operation is exempt from taxation in china under the u.k./china double tax treaty and other circulars addressing indirect taxes. changes to or failure to qualify for the treaty or circular could cause us to lose the benefits provided which would have a material impact on our results of operations. our chinese income from non-shipping activities or from shipping activities not qualifying for treaty or circular protection and which are considered insignificant, remain subject to chinese taxation. other taxation we and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to value-added and other indirect taxes most of which are reclaimable, zero-rated or exempt. 20 table of c ontents website access to reports we make available, free of charge, access to our annual reports, all quarterly and current reports and all amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission through our website at www.rclcorporate.com . the information contained on our website is not a part of any of these reports and is not incorporated by reference herein. information about our executive officers as of february 25, 2020, our executive officers are: name age position richard d. fain 72 chairman, chief executive officer and director jason t. liberty 44 executive vice president, chief financial officer michael w. bayley 61 president and chief executive officer, royal caribbean international lisa lutoff-perlo 62 president and chief executive officer, celebrity cruises lawrence pimentel 68 president and chief executive officer, azamara harri u. kulovaara 67 executive vice president, maritime bradley h. stein 64 senior vice president, general counsel, chief compliance officer henry l. pujol 52 senior vice president, chief accounting officer richard d. fain has served as a director since 1981 and as our chairman and chief executive officer since 1988. mr. fain is a recognized industry leader, having participated in shipping for over 40 years and having held a number of prominent industry positions, such as chairman of the cruise lines international association (clia), the largest cruise industry trade association. he currently serves on the university of miami board of trustees as well as the national board of the posse foundation. he is former chairman of the university of miami board of trustees, miami business forum, the greater miami convention and visitors bureau, and the united way of miami-dade. jason t. liberty has been employed by the company since 2005 and has served as executive vice president and chief financial officer since february 2017. from may 2013 to february 2017, he served as senior vice president and chief financial officer. since february 2017, mr. liberty has overseen the company's treasury, accounting, corporate, strategic and revenue planning, corporate development, deployment, internal audit and investor relations functions. since may 2018, in addition to the above functions, he has also overseen the company's information technology, supply chain, risk management, legal and port operations functions. prior to his role as chief financial officer, mr. liberty served as senior vice president, strategy and finance from september 2012 through may 2013, overseeing the company's corporate and strategic planning, treasury, investor relations and deployment functions. prior to this, mr. liberty served, from 2010 through 2012, as vice president of corporate and revenue planning and, from 2008 to 2010, as vice president of corporate and strategic planning. before joining royal caribbean, mr. liberty was a senior manager at the international public accounting firm of kpmg llp. mr. liberty currently serves on the board of directors of wns holdings. michael w. bayley has served as president and chief executive officer of royal caribbean international since december 2014. prior to this, he served as president and chief executive officer of celebrity cruises since august 2012. mr. bayley has been employed by royal caribbean for over 30 years, having started as an assistant purser onboard one of the company's ships. he has served in a number of roles including as executive vice president, operations from february 2012 until august 2012. other positions mr. bayley has held include executive vice president, international from may 2010 until february 2012; senior vice president, international from december 2007 to may 2010; senior vice president, hotel operations for royal caribbean international; and chairman and managing director of island cruises. lisa lutoff-perlo has served as president and chief executive officer of celebrity cruises since december 2014 and has been with the company since 1985. she also leads the company's global marine organization. ms. lutoff-perlo was the executive vice president, operations of royal caribbean international from 2012 to 2014; senior vice president, hotel operations of celebrity cruises from 2007 to 2012; and vice president, onboard 21 table of c ontents revenue of celebrity cruises from 2005 to 2007. ms. lutoff-perlo held various senior positions in sales and marketing with royal caribbean international from 1985 to 2005. ms. lutoff-perlo also serves on the board of directors of autonation. lawrence pimentel has served as president and chief executive officer of azamara since july 2009. from 2001 until january 2009, mr. pimentel was president, chief executive officer, director and co-owner of seadream yacht club, a privately held luxury cruise line located in miami, florida with two yacht-style ships that sailed primarily in the caribbean and mediterranean. from april 1991 to february 2001, mr. pimentel was president and chief executive officer of carnival corp.'s seabourn cruise line and from may 1998 to february 2001, he was president and chief executive officer of carnival corp.'s cunard line. harri u. kulovaara has served as executive vice president, maritime since january 2005. mr. kulovaara is responsible for fleet design and newbuild operations. mr. kulovaara also chairs our maritime safety advisory board. mr. kulovaara has been employed with royal caribbean since 1995 in a variety of positions, including senior vice president, marine operations, and senior vice president, quality assurance. mr. kulovaara is a naval architect and engineer. bradley h. stein has served as general counsel and corporate secretary of the company since 2006. he has also served as senior vice president and chief compliance officer of the company since february 2009 and february 2011, respectively. mr. stein has been with royal caribbean since 1992. before joining royal caribbean, mr. stein worked in private practice in new york and miami. henry l. pujol has served as senior vice president, chief accounting officer of the company since may 2013. mr. pujol originally joined royal caribbean in 2004 as assistant controller and was promoted to corporate controller in may 2007. before joining royal caribbean, mr. pujol was a senior manager at the international public accounting firm of kpmg llp. 22 table of c ontents item 1a. risk factors the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k are important factors that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historical results. it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks. there may be additional risks that we consider not to be material, or which are not known, and any of these risks could have the effects set forth below. the ordering of the risk factors set forth below is not intended to reflect any company indication of priority or likelihood. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for a cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements. adverse worldwide economic or other conditions could reduce the demand for cruises and passenger spending, adversely impacting our operating results, cash flows and financial condition including potentially impairing the value of our ships and other assets. the demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic conditions. weak or uncertain economic conditions impact consumer confidence and pose a risk as vacationers may postpone or reduce discretionary spending. this, in turn, may result in cruise booking slowdowns, decreased cruise prices and lower onboard revenues. given the global nature of our business, we are exposed to many different economies and our business could be hurt by challenging conditions in any of our markets. any significant deterioration of international, national or local economic conditions, including those resulting from geopolitical events and/or international disputes, could result in a prolonged period of booking slowdowns, depressed cruise prices and/or reduced onboard revenues. fears of terrorist attacks, war, and other hostilities could have a negative impact on our results of operations. events such as terrorist attacks, war (or war-like conditions), conflicts (domestic or cross-border), civil unrest and other hostilities, including an escalation in the frequency or severity of incidents, and the resulting political instability, travel restrictions and advisories, and concerns over safety and security aspects of traveling or the fear of any of the foregoing have had, and could have in the future, a significant adverse impact on demand and pricing in the travel and vacation industry. in view of our global operations, we are susceptible to a wide range of adverse events. these events could also result in additional security measures taken by local authorities which may potentially impact access to ports and/or destinations. our operating costs could increase due to market forces and economic or geo-political factors beyond our control. our operating costs, including fuel, food, payroll and benefits, airfare, taxes, insurance and security costs, are all subject to increases due to market forces and economic or geo-political conditions or other factors beyond our control. increases in these operating costs could adversely affect our profitability. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, fuel prices and interest rates could affect our financial results. we are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, fuel prices and interest rates. significant changes in any of the foregoing could have a material impact on our financial results, net of the impact of our hedging activities and natural offsets. our operating results have been and will continue to be impacted, often significantly, by changes in each of these factors. the value of our earnings in foreign currencies is adversely impacted by a strong united states dollar. in addition, any significant increase in fuel prices could materially and adversely affect our business as fuel prices not only impact our fuel costs, but also some of our other expenses, such as crew travel, freight and commodity prices. mandatory fuel restrictions, such as the international maritime organization's 2020 low sulphur regulation ("imo 2020"), may also create uncertainty related to the price and availability of certain fuel types potentially impacting operating costs and the value of our related hedging instruments. also, a significant increase in interest rates could materially impact the cost of our floating rate debt. furthermore, regulatory changes, such as the announcement of the united kingdom's financial conduct authority to phase out libor by the end of 2021, may adversely affect our portfolio of floating-rate debt and interest rate derivatives. if libor ceases to exist, we may need to renegotiate any credit agreements or interest rate derivatives agreements extending beyond 2021 that utilize libor as a factor in determining the interest rate or hedge rate, which could adversely impact our cost of debt. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for more information. 23 table of c ontents conducting business globally may result in increased costs and other risks. we operate our business globally. operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including increased exposure to a wider range of regional and local economic conditions, volatile local political conditions, potential changes in duties and taxes, including changing and/or uncertain interpretations of existing tax laws and regulations, required compliance with additional laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses or governing the operations of foreign-based companies, currency fluctuations, interest rate movements, difficulties in operating under local business environments, port quality and availability in certain regions, u.s. and global anti-bribery laws or regulations, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings. our future growth strategies increasingly depend on the growth and sustained profitability of certain international markets, such as china. some factors that will be critical to our success in developing these markets may be different than those affecting our more-established north american and european markets. in the chinese market, in particular, our future success depends on our ability to continue to raise awareness of our products, evolve the available distribution channels and adapt our offerings to best suit the chinese consumer. china's economy differs from the economies of other developed countries in many respects and, as the legal and regulatory system in china continues to evolve, there may be greater uncertainty as to the interpretation and enforcement of applicable laws and regulations. operating globally also exposes us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal, regulatory and tax requirements. in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business communities might not conform to international business standards. we must adhere to policies designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance as well as applicable laws and regulations. however, we might not be successful in ensuring that our employees, agents, representatives and other third parties with whom we associate throughout the world properly adhere to them. failure by us, our employees or any of these third parties to adhere to our policies or applicable laws or regulations could result in penalties, sanctions, damage to our reputation and related costs which in turn could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. we have operations in and source passengers from the united kingdom and the european union. on january 31, 2020, the united kingdom withdrew from the european union and immediately entered an 11-month transition period. uncertainty during the transition period could lead to adverse effects on the economy of the united kingdom, including the value of the british pound, and the other economies in which we operate, making it more difficult to source passengers from these regions. additionally, if the withdrawal is not executed effectively, it could adversely affect tax, legal and regulatory regimes to which our business in the region is subject. the withdrawal could also, among other potential outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the united kingdom and the european union, if not executed effectively. as a global operator, our business may be also impacted by changes in u.s. policy or priorities in areas such as trade, immigration and/or environmental or labor regulations, among others. depending on the nature and scope of any such changes, they could impact our domestic and international business operations. any such changes, and any international response to them, could potentially introduce new barriers to passenger or crew travel and/or cross border transactions, impact our guest experience and/or increase our operating costs. if we are unable to address these risks adequately, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected, including potentially impairing the value of our ships and other assets. changes in u.s. foreign travel policy may affect our results of operations. changes in u.s. foreign policy could result in the imposition of travel restrictions or travel bans on u.s. persons to certain countries or result in the imposition of u.s. rules, regulations or legislation that could expose us to penalties or claims of monetary damages. the timing and scope of these changes are unpredictable, and they could cause us to cancel scheduled sailings, possibly on short notice, or could result in possible litigation against us. this, in turn, could decrease our revenue, increase our operating costs and otherwise impair our profitability. for instance, in june 2019, the u.s. government announced that cruise ships would no longer be allowed to travel between the u.s. and cuba. this required us to change our high yielding cuba sailings on short notice, which impacted our earnings. moreover, in may 2019, the u.s. government activated title iii of the cuban liberty and solidarity (libertad) act of 1996, popularly known as the helms-burton act. this allowed certain individuals 24 table of c ontents whose property was confiscated by the cuban government to sue in u.s. courts anyone who "traffics" in the property in question. the activation of title iii has resulted in litigation against us and others in the tourism industry. price increases for commercial airline service for our guests or major changes or reduction in commercial airline service and/or availability could adversely impact the demand for cruises and undermine our ability to provide reasonably priced vacation packages to our guests. many of our guests depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to or from the ports where our cruises embark or disembark. increases in the price of airfare would increase the overall price of the cruise vacation to our guests, which may adversely impact demand for our cruises. in addition, changes in the availability of commercial airline services could adversely affect our guests' ability to obtain air travel, as well as our ability to transfer our guests to or from our cruise ships, which could adversely affect our results of operations. incidents on ships, at port facilities, land destinations and/or affecting the cruise vacation industry in general, and the associated negative media coverage and publicity, could affect our reputation and impact our sales and results of operations. the ownership and/or operation of cruise ships, private destinations, port facilities and shore excursions involves the risk of accidents, illnesses, mechanical failures, environmental incidents and other incidents which may bring into question safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction and can negatively impact our sales, operations and reputation. incidents involving cruise ships, and, in particular the safety, health and security of guests and crew and the media coverage thereof have impacted and could in the future impact demand for our cruises and pricing in the industry. our reputation and our business could also be damaged by negative publicity regarding the cruise industry in general, including publicity regarding the spread of contagious disease, over-tourism in key ports and destinations and the potentially adverse environmental impacts of cruising. the considerable expansion in the use of social and digital media over recent years has compounded the potential scope and reach of any negative publicity. if any such incident or news cycle occurs during a time of high seasonal demand, the effect could disproportionately impact our results of operations for the year. in addition, incidents involving cruise ships may result in additional costs to our business, increasing government or other regulatory oversight and, in certain cases, potential litigation. significant weather, climate events and/or natural disasters could adversely impact our business and results from operations. natural disasters (e.g. earthquakes), weather and/or climate events (including hurricanes and typhoons) could impact our source markets and operations resulting in travel restrictions, guest cancellations, an inability to source our crew or our provisions and supplies from certain places. we are often forced to alter itineraries and occasionally cancel a cruise or a series of cruises or to redeploy our ships due to these types of events, which could have an adverse effect on our sales, operating costs and profitability in the current and future periods. increases in the frequency, severity or duration of these types of events could exacerbate their impact and cause further disruption to our operations or make certain destinations less desirable or unavailable impacting our revenues and profitability further. any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and on industry performance. disease outbreaks and an increase in concern about the risk of illness could adversely impact our business and results from operations. disease outbreaks and increased concern related to illness when travelling to, from, and on our ships could cause a drop in demand for cruises, guest cancellations, travel restrictions, an unavailability of ports and/or destinations, cruise cancellations, ship redeployments and an inability to source our crew, provisions or supplies from certain places. the recent coronavirus outbreak is currently having these impacts on our operations and, given its fluid and developing nature, has made it extremely difficult for us to forecast the impact it could have on our future operations. for instance, the resulting measures taken by china and other countries to contain the disease, including travel restrictions, have resulted in the cancellation or itinerary modification of an increasing number of our cruises in southeast asia. in addition, our imposition of measures to protect our guests and crew, including denying boarding to those that have traveled from, to or through mainland china or hong kong, has caused us to cancel cruise bookings or restrict certain guests from booking our cruises. all of these issues are having and are likely to continue to have a material impact on our bookings, operations and our overall financial performance. 25 table of c ontents an increase in capacity worldwide or excess capacity in a particular market could adversely impact our cruise sales and/or pricing. although our ships can be redeployed, cruise sales and/or pricing may be impacted by the introduction of new ships into the marketplace, reductions in cruise capacity, overall market growth and deployment decisions of ourselves and our competitors. as of december 31, 2019, a total of 67 new ships with approximately 159,000 berths are on order for delivery through 2024 in the cruise industry. the further net growth in capacity from these new ships and future orders, without an increase in the cruise industry's demand and/or share of the vacation market, could depress cruise prices and impede our ability to achieve yield improvement. in addition, to the extent that we or our competitors deploy ships to a particular itinerary/region and the resulting capacity in that region exceeds the demand, we may lower pricing and profitability may be lower than anticipated. this risk exists in emerging cruise markets, where capacity has grown rapidly over the past few years and in mature markets where excess capacity is typically redeployed. any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, including potentially impairing the value of our ships and other assets. unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our results of operations . we believe that port destinations are a major reason why guests choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. the availability of ports and destinations is affected by a number of factors, including industry demand and competition for key ports and destinations, existing capacity constraints, constraints related to the size of certain ships, security, financial limitations on port development, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, geopolitical developments and local governmental regulations. in addition, fuel costs may adversely impact the destinations on certain of our itineraries. increased demand and competition for key ports of call or destinations, limitations on the availability or feasibility of use of specific ports of call and/or constraints on the availability of shore excursions and other service providers at such ports or destinations could adversely affect our results of operations. growing anti-tourism sentiments and environmental concerns related to cruising could adversely impact our operations. certain ports and destinations are facing a surge of both cruise and non-cruise tourism which, in certain cases, has fueled anti-tourism sentiments and related countermeasures to limit the volume of tourists allowed in these destinations. in certain destinations, countermeasures to limit the volume of tourists are being contemplated and/or put into effect, including proposed limits on cruise ships and cruise passengers. for example, effective 2020, the local government of dubrovnik, croatia will cap the number of cruise ships that can dock each day to two and the number of corresponding passengers. similar existing and potential restrictions in ports and destinations such as venice and barcelona could limit the itinerary and destination options we can offer our passengers going forward. some environmental groups have also generated negative publicity about the environmental impact of the cruise vacation industry and are advocating for more stringent regulation of ship emissions at berth and at sea. these anti-tourism sentiments and growing environmental scrutiny of the cruise industry and any related countermeasures could adversely impact our operations and financial results and subject us to increasing compliance costs. our reliance on shipyards, their subcontractors and our suppliers to implement our newbuild and ship upgrade programs and to repair and maintain our ships exposes us to risks which, if realized, could adversely impact our business. we rely on shipyards, their subcontractors and our suppliers to effectively construct our new ships and to repair, maintain and upgrade our existing ships on a timely basis and in a cost effective manner. there are a limited number of shipyards with the capability and capacity to build, repair, maintain and/or upgrade our ships. increased demand for available new construction slots and/or continued consolidation in the cruise shipyard industry could impact our ability to: (1) construct new ships, when and as planned, (2) cause us to continue to commit to new ship orders earlier than we have historically done so and/or (3) result in stronger bargaining power on the part of the shipyards and the export credit agencies providing financing for the project. current market conditions characterized by limited shipyard capacity, high demand for shipyard and sub-contractor resources and the growing application of advanced technologies to newbuilds (e.g. lng) could cause delays in ship deliveries and 26 table of c ontents scheduled drydocks across the industry. our inability to timely and cost-effectively procure new capacity and the potential delay in ship deliveries and/or scheduled drydocks or modernizations could have a significant negative impact on our future business plans and results of operations. building, repairing, maintaining and/or upgrading a ship is also sophisticated work that involves significant risks. in addition, the prices of labor and/or various commodities that are used in the construction of ships can be subject to volatile price changes, including the impact of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. shipyards, their subcontractors and/or our suppliers may encounter financial, technical or design problems when doing these jobs. if materialized, these problems could impact the timely delivery or costs of new ships or the ability of shipyards to repair and upgrade our fleet in accordance with our needs or expectations. in addition, delays, mechanical faults and/or unforeseen incidents, such as the collapse of the drydock structure at the grand bahama shipyard involving oasis of the seas, may result in cancellation of cruises or, in more severe situations, new ship orders, or necessitate unscheduled drydocks and repairs of ships. these events and any related adverse publicity could result in lost revenue, increased operating expenses, or both, and thus adversely affect our results of operations. we may lose business to competitors throughout the vacation market . we operate in the vacation market and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. we therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators, which provide other leisure options, including hotels, resorts, internet-based alternative lodging sites and package holidays and tours. we face significant competition from other cruise lines on the basis of cruise pricing, travel agent preference and also in terms of the nature of ships, services and destinations that we offer to guests. our principal competitors within the cruise vacation industry include carnival corporation &amp; plc, which owns, among others, aida cruises, carnival cruise line, costa cruises, cunard line, holland america line, p&amp;o cruises, princess cruises and seabourn; disney cruise line; msc cruises; and norwegian cruise line holdings ltd, which owns norwegian cruise line, oceania cruises and regent seven seas cruises. our revenues are sensitive to the actions of other cruise lines in many areas including pricing, scheduling, capacity and promotions, which can have a substantial adverse impact not only on our revenues, but on overall industry revenues. in the event that we do not effectively market or differentiate our cruise brands from our competitors or otherwise compete effectively with other vacation alternatives and new or existing cruise companies, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. we may not be able to obtain sufficient financing or capital for our needs or may not be able to do so on terms that are acceptable or consistent with our expectations. to fund our capital expenditures (including new ship orders), operations and scheduled debt payments, we have historically relied on a combination of cash flows provided by operations, drawdowns under available credit facilities, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the sale of equity or debt securities in private or public securities markets. any circumstance or event which leads to a decrease in consumer cruise spending, such as worsening global economic conditions or significant incidents impacting the cruise industry, could negatively affect our operating cash flows. see - adverse worldwide economic or other conditions and - incidents or adverse publicity concerning our ships and/or passengers or the cruise vacation industry for more information. although we believe we can access sufficient liquidity to fund our operations, investments and obligations as expected, there can be no assurances to that effect. our ability to access additional funding as and when needed, our ability to timely refinance and/or replace our outstanding debt securities and credit facilities on acceptable terms and our cost of funding will depend upon numerous factors including, but not limited to, the vibrancy of the financial markets, our financial performance, the performance of our industry in general and the size, scope and timing of our financial needs. in addition, even where financing commitments have been secured, significant disruptions in the capital and credit markets could cause our banking and other counterparties to breach their contractual obligations to us. this could include failures of banks or other financial service companies to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements or to pay us amounts that may become due or return collateral that is refundable under our derivative contracts for hedging of fuel prices, interest rates and foreign currencies or other agreements. if any of the foregoing occurs it may have a negative impact on our cash flows, including our ability to meet our obligations, our results of operations and our financial condition. 27 table of c ontents our liquidity could be adversely impacted if we are unable to satisfy the covenants required by our credit facilities. our debt agreements contain covenants, including covenants restricting our and their ability to take certain actions and financial covenants. our ability to maintain our credit facilities may also be impacted by changes in our ownership base. more specifically, we may be required to prepay our bank financing facilities if any person acquires ownership of more than 50% of our common stock or, subject to certain exceptions, during any 24-month period, a majority of our board of directors is no longer comprised of individuals who were members of our board of directors on the first day of such period. our public debt securities also contain change of control provisions that would be triggered by a third-party acquisition of greater than 50% of our common stock coupled with a ratings downgrade. failure to comply with the terms of these debt facilities could result in an event of default. generally, if an event of default under any debt agreement occurs, then pursuant to cross default acceleration clauses, our outstanding debt and derivative contract payables could become due and/or terminated. in addition, in such events, our credit card processors could hold back payments to create a reserve. we cannot provide assurances that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay, or the ability to refinance the debt if such amounts were accelerated upon an event of default. if we are unable to appropriately balance our cost management and capital allocation strategies with our goal of satisfying guest expectations, it may adversely impact our business success. our goals call for us to provide high quality products and deliver high quality services. there can be no assurance that we can successfully balance these goals with our cost management and capital allocation strategies. our business also requires us to make capital allocation decisions across a broad scope of investment options with varying return profiles and time horizons for value realization. these include significant capital investment decisions such as ordering new ships, upgrading our existing fleet, enhancing our technology and/or data capabilities, and expanding our portfolio of land-based assets, based on expected market preferences, competition and projected demand. there can be no assurance that our strategies will be successful, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. investments in older tonnage, in particular, run the risk of not meeting expected returns and diluting related asset values. our attempts to expand our business into new markets and new ventures may not be successful. we opportunistically seek to grow our business through, among other things, expansion into new destinations or source markets and establishment of new ventures complementary to our current offerings. these attempts to expand our business increase the complexity of our business, require significant levels of investment and can strain our management, personnel, operations and systems. there can be no assurance that these business expansion efforts will develop as anticipated or that we will succeed, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks associated with our development and operation of key land-based destination projects may adversely impact our business or results of operations. we have invested, and will continue to invest, either directly or indirectly through joint ventures and partnerships, in a growing portfolio of key land-based projects including port and terminal facilities, private destinations and multi-brand destination projects. these investments can increase our exposure to certain key risks depending on the scope, location, and the ownership and management structure of these projects. these risks include susceptibility to weather events, exposure to local political/regulatory developments and policies, logistical challenges and human resource and labor risks. our reliance on travel agencies to sell and market our cruises exposes us to certain risks which, if realized, could adversely impact our business. we rely on travel agencies to generate the majority of bookings for our ships. accordingly, we must ensure that our commission rates and incentive structures remain competitive. if we fail to offer competitive compensation packages or fail to maintain our relationships, these agencies may be incentivized to sell cruises offered by our competitors to our detriment, which could adversely impact our operating results. our reliance on third-party sellers is particularly pronounced in certain markets. in addition, the travel agent industry is sensitive to economic 28 table of c ontents conditions that impact discretionary income of consumers. significant disruptions, especially disruptions impacting those agencies that sell a high volume of our business, or contractions in the industry could reduce the number of travel agencies available for us to market and sell our cruises, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. disruptions in our shoreside or shipboard operations or our information systems may adversely affect our results of operations. our principal executive office and principal shoreside operations are located in florida, and we have shoreside offices throughout the world. actual or threatened natural disasters (e.g., hurricanes/typhoons, earthquakes, tornadoes, fires or floods) or similar events in these locations may have a material impact on our business continuity, reputation and results of operations. in addition, substantial or repeated information system failures, computer viruses or cyber attacks impacting our shoreside or shipboard operations could adversely impact our business. we do not generally carry business interruption insurance for our shoreside or shipboard operations or our information systems. as such, any losses or damages incurred by us could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. the loss of key personnel, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel, or disruptions among our shipboard personnel due to strained employee relations could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends, in large part, on the skills and contributions of key executives and other employees, and on our ability to recruit, develop and retain high quality personnel as well as having adequate succession plans. as demand for qualified personnel in the industry grows, we must continue to effectively recruit, train, motivate and retain our employees, both shoreside and on our ships, in order to effectively compete in our industry, maintain our current business and support our projected global growth. as of december 31, 2019, 89% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. a dispute under our collective bargaining agreements could result in a work stoppage of those employees covered by the agreements. we may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate these collective bargaining agreements when they expire. in addition, existing collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage on our ships. we may also be subject to or affected by work stoppages unrelated to our business or collective bargaining agreements. any such work stoppages or potential work stoppages could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, as could a loss of key employees, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel or disruptions among our personnel. business activities that involve our co-investments with third parties may subject us to additional risks. partnerships, joint ventures and other business structures involving our co-investments with third parties generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. in addition to financial risks, our co-investment activities may also present managerial and operational risks and expose us to reputational or legal concerns. these or other issues related to our co-investments with third parties could adversely impact our operations. past or pending business acquisitions or potential acquisitions that we may decide to pursue in the future carry inherent risks which could adversely impact our financial performance and condition. the company, from time to time, has engaged in acquisitions (e.g., our silversea cruises acquisition) and may pursue acquisitions in the future, which are subject to, among other factors, the company's ability to identify attractive business opportunities and to negotiate favorable terms for such opportunities. accordingly, the company cannot make any assurances that potential acquisitions will be completed timely or at all, or that if completed, we would realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisition. acquisitions also carry inherent risks such as, among others: (1) the potential delay or failure of our efforts to successfully integrate business processes and realizing expected synergies; (2) difficulty in aligning procedures, controls and/or policies; and (3) future unknown liabilities and costs that may be associated with an acquisition. in addition, acquisitions may also adversely impact our liquidity and/or debt levels, and the recognized value of goodwill and other intangible assets can be negatively 29 table of c ontents affected by unforeseen events and/or circumstances, which may result in an impairment charge. any of the foregoing events could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. we rely on supply chain vendors and third-party service providers who are integral to the operations of our businesses. these vendors and service providers may be unable or unwilling to deliver on their commitments or may act in ways that could harm our business. we rely on supply chain vendors to deliver key products to the operations of our businesses around the world. any event impacting a vendor's ability to deliver goods of the expected quality at the location and time needed could negatively impact our ability to deliver our cruise experience. events impacting our supply chain could be caused by factors beyond the control of our suppliers or us, including inclement weather, natural disasters, increased demand, problems in production or distribution and/or disruptions in third-party logistics or transportation systems, such as those caused by the recent coronavirus. interruptions to our supply chain could increase costs and could limit the availability of products critical to our operations. in order to achieve cost and operational efficiencies, we outsource to third-party vendors certain services that are integral to the operations of our global businesses, such as our onboard concessionaires, certain of our call center operations and operation of a large part of our information technology systems. we are subject to the risk that certain decisions are subject to the control of our third-party service providers and that these decisions may adversely affect our activities. a failure to adequately monitor a third-party service provider's compliance with a service level agreement or regulatory or legal requirements could result in significant economic and reputational harm to us. there is also a risk the confidentiality, privacy and/or security of data held by third parties or communicated over third-party networks or platforms could become compromised. if we are unable to keep pace with developments in technology or technological obsolescence, our operations or competitive position could become impaired. our business continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems. these technologies and systems require significant investment and must be proven, refined, updated, upgraded and/or replaced with more advanced systems in order to continue to meet our customers' demands and expectations. if we are unable to do so in a timely manner or within reasonable cost parameters or if we are unable to appropriately and timely train our employees to operate any of these new systems, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, which could result in higher than anticipated costs or impair our operating results. we are exposed to cyber security attacks and data breaches, including the risks and costs associated with protecting our systems and maintaining integrity and security of our business information, as well as personal data of our guests, employees and business partners. we are subject to cyber security attacks. these cyber attacks can vary in scope and intent from attacks with the objective of compromising our systems, networks and communications for economic gain to attacks with the objective of disrupting, disabling or otherwise compromising our maritime and/or shoreside operations. the attacks can encompass a wide range of methods and intent, including phishing attacks, illegitimate requests for payment, theft of intellectual property, theft of confidential or non-public information, installation of malware, installation of ransomware and theft of personal or business information. the breadth and scope of these attacks, as well as the techniques and sophistication used to conduct these attacks, have grown over time. a successful cyber security attack may target us directly, or it may be the result of a third party's inadequate care. in either scenario, the company may suffer damage to its systems and data that could interrupt our operations, adversely impact our reputation and brand and expose us to increased risks of governmental investigation, litigation, fines and other liability, any of which could adversely affect our business. furthermore, responding to such an attack and mitigating the risk of future attacks could result in additional operating and capital costs in systems technology, personnel, monitoring and other investments. in addition, we are also subject to various risks associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of sensitive information. in the course of doing business, we collect large volumes of employee, customer and other third-party data, including personally identifiable information and individual credit data, for various business purposes. we are subject to federal, state and international laws (including the european union 30 table of c ontents general data protection regulation), as well as industry standards, relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personally identifiable information and individual credit data. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between the company and its subsidiaries, and among the company, its subsidiaries and other parties with which the company has commercial relations. several jurisdictions have passed laws in this area, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. these laws continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. complying with emerging and changing international requirements has caused, and may cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices. if we fail to comply with the various applicable data collection and privacy laws, we could be exposed to fines, penalties, restrictions, litigation or other expenses, and our business could be adversely impacted. while we continue to evolve our cyber security practices in line with our business' reliance on technology and the changing external threat landscape, and we invest time, effort and financial resources to secure our systems, networks and communications, our security measures cannot provide absolute assurance that we will be successful in preventing or responding to all cyber security attacks. there can be no assurance that any breach or incident will not have a material impact on our operations and financial results. any breach, theft, loss, or fraudulent use of guest, employee, third-party or company data, could adversely impact our reputation and brand and our ability to retain or attract new customers, and expose us to risks of data loss, business disruption, governmental investigation, litigation and other liability, any of which could adversely affect our business. significant capital investments and other expenditures could be required to remedy the problem and prevent future breaches, including costs associated with additional security technologies, personnel, experts and credit monitoring services for those whose data has been breached. further, if we or our vendors experience significant data security breaches or fail to detect and appropriately respond to significant data security breaches, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation. the potential unavailability of insurance coverage, an inability to obtain insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates or our failure to have coverage in sufficient amounts to cover our incurred losses may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we seek to maintain appropriate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates. we normally insure based on the cost of an asset rather than replacement value and we also elect to self-insure, co-insure, or use deductibles in certain circumstances for certain risks such as loss of use of a ship or a cyber security breach. the limits of insurance coverage we purchase are based on the availability of the coverage, evaluation of our risk profile and cost of coverage. accordingly, we are not protected against all risks and we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred which could result in an unexpected decrease in our revenue and results of operations in the event of an incident. we are members of four protection and indemnity ("p&amp;i") clubs, which are part of a worldwide group of 13 p&amp;i clubs, known as the international group of p&amp;i clubs (the ig ). p&amp;i coverage provided by the clubs is on a mutual basis and we are subject to additional premium calls in the event of a catastrophic loss incurred by any member of the 13 p&amp;i clubs, whereby the reinsurance limits purchased by the ig are exhausted. we are also subject to additional premium calls based on investment and underwriting shortfalls experienced by our own individual insurers. we cannot be certain that insurance and reinsurance coverage will be available to us and at commercially reasonable rates in the future or at all or, if available, that it will be sufficient to cover potential claims. additionally, if we or other insureds sustain significant losses, the result may be higher insurance premiums, cancellation of coverage, or the inability to obtain coverage. such events could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. environmental, labor, health and safety, financial responsibility and other maritime regulations could affect operations and increase operating costs. the united states and various state and foreign government or regulatory agencies have enacted or may enact environmental regulations or policies, such as requiring the use of low sulfur fuels (e.g. imo 2020), that could increase our direct cost to operate in certain markets, increase our cost for fuel, limit the supply of compliant fuel, cause us to incur significant expenses to purchase and/or develop new equipment and adversely impact the cruise 31 table of c ontents vacation industry. while we have taken and expect to continue to take a number of actions to mitigate the potential impact of certain of these regulations, there can be no assurances that these efforts will be successful or completed on a timely basis. there is increasing global regulatory focus on climate change, greenhouse gas (ghg) and other emissions. these regulatory efforts, both internationally and in the united states are still developing, and we cannot yet determine what the final regulatory programs or their impact will be in any jurisdiction where we do business. however, such climate change-related regulatory activity in the future may adversely affect our business and financial results by requiring us to reduce our emissions, purchase allowances or otherwise pay for our emissions. such activity may also impact us by increasing our operating costs, including fuel costs. in addition, we are subject to various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties that govern, among other things, discharge from our ships, safety standards applicable to our ships, treatment of disabled persons, health and sanitary standards applicable to our guests, security standards on board our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities to our guests. these issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. this could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that could subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. a change in our tax status under the united states internal revenue code, or other jurisdictions, may have adverse effects on our income . we and a number of our subsidiaries are foreign corporations that derive income from a u.s. trade or business and/or from sources within the united states. in connection with the year end audit, each year, drinker biddle &amp; reath llp, our u.s. tax counsel, delivers to us an opinion, based on certain representations and assumptions set forth in it, to the effect that this income, to the extent derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, is excluded from gross income for u.s. federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 883 of the internal revenue code. we believe that most of our income (including that of our subsidiaries) is derived from or incidental to the international operation of ships. our ability to rely on section 883 could be challenged or could change in the future. provisions of the internal revenue code, including section 883, are subject to legislative change at any time. moreover, changes could occur in the future with respect to the identity, residence or holdings of our direct or indirect shareholders, trading volume or trading frequency of our shares, or relevant foreign tax laws of liberia or bahamas, such that they no longer qualify as equivalent exemption jurisdictions, that could affect our eligibility for the section 883 exemption. accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be exempt from u.s. income tax on u.s. source shipping income in the future. if we were not entitled to the benefit of section 883, we and our subsidiaries would be subject to u.s. taxation on a portion of the income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships, which would reduce our net income. additionally, portions of our business are operated by companies that are within the united kingdom tonnage tax regime. further, some of our operations are conducted in jurisdictions where we rely on tax treaties to provide exemption from taxation. to the extent the united kingdom tonnage tax laws change or we do not continue to meet the applicable qualification requirements or if tax treaties are changed or revoked, we may be required to pay higher income tax in these jurisdictions, adversely impacting our results of operations. as budgetary constraints continue to adversely impact the jurisdictions in which we operate, increases in income tax regulations, tax audits or tax reform affecting our operations may be imposed. litigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and/or damage our reputation. our business is subject to various united states and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. in addition, improper conduct by our employees, agents or joint venture partners could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. in certain circumstances it may not be economical to defend against such matters and/or our legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 32 table of c ontents we are not a united states corporation and our shareholders may be subject to the uncertainties of a foreign legal system in protecting their interests. our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the business corporation act of liberia. the provisions of the business corporation act of liberia resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the united states. however, while most states have a fairly well developed body of case law interpreting their respective corporate statutes, there are very few judicial cases in liberia interpreting the business corporation act of liberia. as such, the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under liberian law are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in certain united states jurisdictions. for example, the right of shareholders to bring a derivative action in liberian courts may be more limited than in united states jurisdictions. there may also be practical difficulties for shareholders attempting to bring suit in liberia and liberian courts may or may not recognize and enforce foreign judgments. thus, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests with respect to actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a united states jurisdiction. provisions of our articles of incorporation, by-laws and liberian law could inhibit others from acquiring us, prevent a change of control, and may prevent efforts by our shareholders to change our management. certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws and liberian law may inhibit third parties from effectuating a change of control of the company without approval from our board of directors which could result in the entrenchment of current management. these include provisions in our articles of incorporation that prevent third parties, other than a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates, from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of our outstanding shares without the consent of our board of directors. 33 table of c ontents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 67 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for more information. 23 table of c ontents conducting business globally may result in increased costs and other risks. we operate our business globally. operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including increased exposure to a wider range of regional and local economic conditions, volatile local political conditions, potential changes in duties and taxes, including changing and/or uncertain interpretations of existing tax laws and regulations, required compliance with additional laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses or governing the operations of foreign-based companies, currency fluctuations, interest rate movements, difficulties in operating under local business environments, port quality and availability in certain regions, u.s. and global anti-bribery laws or regulations, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings. our future growth strategies increasingly depend on the growth and sustained profitability of certain international markets, such as china. some factors that will be critical to our success in developing these markets may be different than those affecting our more-established north american and european markets. in the chinese market, in particular, our future success depends on our ability to continue to raise awareness of our products, evolve the available distribution channels and adapt our offerings to best suit the chinese consumer. china's economy differs from the economies of other developed countries in many respects and, as the legal and regulatory system in china continues to evolve, there may be greater uncertainty as to the interpretation and enforcement of applicable laws and regulations. operating globally also exposes us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal, regulatory and tax requirements. in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business communities might not conform to international business standards. we must adhere to policies designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance as well as applicable laws and regulations. however, we might not be successful in ensuring that our employees, agents, representatives and other third parties with whom we associate throughout the world properly adhere to them. failure by us, our employees or any of these third parties to adhere to our policies or applicable laws or regulations could result in penalties, sanctions, damage to our reputation and related costs which in turn could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flows. we have operations in and source passengers from the united kingdom and the european union. on january 31, 2020, the united kingdom withdrew from the european union and immediately entered an 11-month transition period. uncertainty during the transition period could lead to adverse effects on the economy of the united kingdom, including the value of the british pound, and the other economies in which we operate, making it more difficult to source passengers from these regions. additionally, if the withdrawal is not executed effectively, it could adversely affect tax, legal and regulatory regimes to which our business in the region is subject. the withdrawal could also, among other potential outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the united kingdom and the european union, if not executed effectively. as a global operator, our business may be also impacted by changes in u.s. policy or priorities in areas such as trade, immigration and/or environmental or labor regulations, among others. depending on the nature and scope of any such changes, they could impact our domestic and international business operations. any such changes, and any international response to them, could potentially introduce new barriers to passenger or crew travel and/or cross border transactions, impact our guest experience and/or increase our operating costs. if we are unable to address these risks adequately, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected, including potentially impairing the value of our ships and other assets. changes in u.s. foreign travel policy may affect our results of operations. changes in u.s. foreign policy could result in the imposition of travel restrictions or travel bans on u.s. persons to certain countries or result in the imposition of u.s. rules, regulations or legislation that could expose us to penalties or claims of monetary damages. the timing and scope of these changes are unpredictable, and they could cause us to cancel scheduled sailings, possibly on short notice, or could result in possible litigation against us. this, in turn, could decrease our revenue, increase our operating costs and otherwise impair our profitability. for instance, in june 2019, the u.s. government announced that cruise ships would no longer be allowed to travel between the u.s. and cuba. this required us to change our high yielding cuba sailings on short notice, which impacted our earnings. moreover, in may 2019, the u.s. government activated title iii of the cuban liberty and solidarity (libertad) act of 1996, popularly known as the helms-burton act. this allowed certain individuals 24 table of c ontents whose property was confiscated by the cuban government to sue in u.s. courts anyone who "traffics" in the property in question. the activation of title iii has resulted in litigation against us and others in the tourism industry. price increases for commercial airline service for our guests or major changes or reduction in commercial airline service and/or availability could adversely impact the demand for cruises and undermine our ability to provide reasonably priced vacation packages to our guests. many of our guests depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to or from the ports where our cruises embark or disembark. increases in the price of airfare would increase the overall price of the cruise vacation to our guests, which may adversely impact demand for our cruises. in addition, changes in the availability of commercial airline services could adversely affect our guests' ability to obtain air travel, as well as our ability to transfer our guests to or from our cruise ships, which could adversely affect our results of operations. incidents on ships, at port facilities, land destinations and/or affecting the cruise vacation industry in general, and the associated negative media coverage and publicity, could affect our reputation and impact our sales and results of operations. the ownership and/or operation of cruise ships, private destinations, port facilities and shore excursions involves the risk of accidents, illnesses, mechanical failures, environmental incidents and other incidents which may bring into question safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction and can negatively impact our sales, operations and reputation. incidents involving cruise ships, and, in particular the safety, health and security of guests and crew and the media coverage thereof have impacted and could in the future impact demand for our cruises and pricing in the industry. our reputation and our business could also be damaged by negative publicity regarding the cruise industry in general, including publicity regarding the spread of contagious disease, over-tourism in key ports and destinations and the potentially adverse environmental impacts of cruising. the considerable expansion in the use of social and digital media over recent years has compounded the potential scope and reach of any negative publicity. if any such incident or news cycle occurs during a time of high seasonal demand, the effect could disproportionately impact our results of operations for the year. in addition, incidents involving cruise ships may result in additional costs to our business, increasing government or other regulatory oversight and, in certain cases, potential litigation. significant weather, climate events and/or natural disasters could adversely impact our business and results from operations. natural disasters (e.g. earthquakes), weather and/or climate events (including hurricanes and typhoons) could impact our source markets and operations resulting in travel restrictions, guest cancellations, an inability to source our crew or our provisions and supplies from certain places. we are often forced to alter itineraries and occasionally cancel a cruise or a series of cruises or to redeploy our ships due to these types of events, which could have an adverse effect on our sales, operating costs and profitability in the current and future periods. increases in the frequency, severity or duration of these types of events could exacerbate their impact and cause further disruption to our operations or make certain destinations less desirable or unavailable impacting our revenues and profitability further. any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and on industry performance. disease outbreaks and an increase in concern about the risk of illness could adversely impact our business and results from operations. disease outbreaks and increased concern related to illness when travelling to, from, and on our ships could cause a drop in demand for cruises, guest cancellations, travel restrictions, an unavailability of ports and/or destinations, cruise cancellations, ship redeployments and an inability to source our crew, provisions or supplies from certain places. the recent coronavirus outbreak is currently having these impacts on our operations and, given its fluid and developing nature, has made it extremely difficult for us to forecast the impact it could have on our future operations. for instance, the resulting measures taken by china and other countries to contain the disease, including travel restrictions, have resulted in the cancellation or itinerary modification of an increasing number of our cruises in southeast asia. in addition, our imposition of measures to protect our guests and crew, including denying boarding to those that have traveled from, to or through mainland china or hong kong, has caused us to cancel cruise bookings or restrict certain guests from booking our cruises. all of these issues are having and are likely to continue to have a material impact on our bookings, operations and our overall financial performance. 25 table of c ontents an increase in capacity worldwide or excess capacity in a particular market could adversely impact our cruise sales and/or pricing. although our ships can be redeployed, cruise sales and/or pricing may be impacted by the introduction of new ships into the marketplace, reductions in cruise capacity, overall market growth and deployment decisions of ourselves and our competitors. as of december 31, 2019, a total of 67 new ships with approximately 159,000 berths are on order for delivery through 2024 in the cruise industry. the further net growth in capacity from these new ships and future orders, without an increase in the cruise industry's demand and/or share of the vacation market, could depress cruise prices and impede our ability to achieve yield improvement. in addition, to the extent that we or our competitors deploy ships to a particular itinerary/region and the resulting capacity in that region exceeds the demand, we may lower pricing and profitability may be lower than anticipated. this risk exists in emerging cruise markets, where capacity has grown rapidly over the past few years and in mature markets where excess capacity is typically redeployed. any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, including potentially impairing the value of our ships and other assets. unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our results of operations . we believe that port destinations are a major reason why guests choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. the availability of ports and destinations is affected by a number of factors, including industry demand and competition for key ports and destinations, existing capacity constraints, constraints related to the size of certain ships, security, financial limitations on port development, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, geopolitical developments and local governmental regulations. in addition, fuel costs may adversely impact the destinations on certain of our itineraries. increased demand and competition for key ports of call or destinations, limitations on the availability or feasibility of use of specific ports of call and/or constraints on the availability of shore excursions and other service providers at such ports or destinations could adversely affect our results of operations. growing anti-tourism sentiments and environmental concerns related to cruising could adversely impact our operations. certain ports and destinations are facing a surge of both cruise and non-cruise tourism which, in certain cases, has fueled anti-tourism sentiments and related countermeasures to limit the volume of tourists allowed in these destinations. in certain destinations, countermeasures to limit the volume of tourists are being contemplated and/or put into effect, including proposed limits on cruise ships and cruise passengers. for example, effective 2020, the local government of dubrovnik, croatia will cap the number of cruise ships that can dock each day to two and the number of corresponding passengers. similar existing and potential restrictions in ports and destinations such as venice and barcelona could limit the itinerary and destination options we can offer our passengers going forward. some environmental groups have also generated negative publicity about the environmental impact of the cruise vacation industry and are advocating for more stringent regulation of ship emissions at berth and at sea. these anti-tourism sentiments and growing environmental scrutiny of the cruise industry and any related countermeasures could adversely impact our operations and financial results and subject us to increasing compliance costs. our reliance on shipyards, their subcontractors and our suppliers to implement our newbuild and ship upgrade programs and to repair and maintain our ships exposes us to risks which, if realized, could adversely impact our business. we rely on shipyards, their subcontractors and our suppliers to effectively construct our new ships and to repair, maintain and upgrade our existing ships on a timely basis and in a cost effective manner. there are a limited number of shipyards with the capability and capacity to build, repair, maintain and/or upgrade our ships. increased demand for available new construction slots and/or continued consolidation in the cruise shipyard industry could impact our ability to: (1) construct new ships, when and as planned, (2) cause us to continue to commit to new ship orders earlier than we have historically done so and/or (3) result in stronger bargaining power on the part of the shipyards and the export credit agencies providing financing for the project. current market conditions characterized by limited shipyard capacity, high demand for shipyard and sub-contractor resources and the growing application of advanced technologies to newbuilds (e.g. lng) could cause delays in ship deliveries and 26 table of c ontents scheduled drydocks across the industry. our inability to timely and cost-effectively procure new capacity and the potential delay in ship deliveries and/or scheduled drydocks or modernizations could have a significant negative impact on our future business plans and results of operations. building, repairing, maintaining and/or upgrading a ship is also sophisticated work that involves significant risks. in addition, the prices of labor and/or various commodities that are used in the construction of ships can be subject to volatile price changes, including the impact of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. shipyards, their subcontractors and/or our suppliers may encounter financial, technical or design problems when doing these jobs. if materialized, these problems could impact the timely delivery or costs of new ships or the ability of shipyards to repair and upgrade our fleet in accordance with our needs or expectations. in addition, delays, mechanical faults and/or unforeseen incidents, such as the collapse of the drydock structure at the grand bahama shipyard involving oasis of the seas, may result in cancellation of cruises or, in more severe situations, new ship orders, or necessitate unscheduled drydocks and repairs of ships. these events and any related adverse publicity could result in lost revenue, increased operating expenses, or both, and thus adversely affect our results of operations. we may lose business to competitors throughout the vacation market . we operate in the vacation market and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. we therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators, which provide other leisure options, including hotels, resorts, internet-based alternative lodging sites and package holidays and tours. we face significant competition from other cruise lines on the basis of cruise pricing, travel agent preference and also in terms of the nature of ships, services and destinations that we offer to guests. our principal competitors within the cruise vacation industry include carnival corporation &amp; plc, which owns, among others, aida cruises, carnival cruise line, costa cruises, cunard line, holland america line, p&amp;o cruises, princess cruises and seabourn; disney cruise line; msc cruises; and norwegian cruise line holdings ltd, which owns norwegian cruise line, oceania cruises and regent seven seas cruises. our revenues are sensitive to the actions of other cruise lines in many areas including pricing, scheduling, capacity and promotions, which can have a substantial adverse impact not only on our revenues, but on overall industry revenues. in the event that we do not effectively market or differentiate our cruise brands from our competitors or otherwise compete effectively with other vacation alternatives and new or existing cruise companies, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. we may not be able to obtain sufficient financing or capital for our needs or may not be able to do so on terms that are acceptable or consistent with our expectations. to fund our capital expenditures (including new ship orders), operations and scheduled debt payments, we have historically relied on a combination of cash flows provided by operations, drawdowns under available credit facilities, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the sale of equity or debt securities in private or public securities markets. any circumstance or event which leads to a decrease in consumer cruise spending, such as worsening global economic conditions or significant incidents impacting the cruise industry, could negatively affect our operating cash flows. see - adverse worldwide economic or other conditions and - incidents or adverse publicity concerning our ships and/or passengers or the cruise vacation industry for more information. although we believe we can access sufficient liquidity to fund our operations, investments and obligations as expected, there can be no assurances to that effect. our ability to access additional funding as and when needed, our ability to timely refinance and/or replace our outstanding debt securities and credit facilities on acceptable terms and our cost of funding will depend upon numerous factors including, but not limited to, the vibrancy of the financial markets, our financial performance, the performance of our industry in general and the size, scope and timing of our financial needs. in addition, even where financing commitments have been secured, significant disruptions in the capital and credit markets could cause our banking and other counterparties to breach their contractual obligations to us. this could include failures of banks or other financial service companies to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements or to pay us amounts that may become due or return collateral that is refundable under our derivative contracts for hedging of fuel prices, interest rates and foreign currencies or other agreements. if any of the foregoing occurs it may have a negative impact on our cash flows, including our ability to meet our obligations, our results of operations and our financial condition. 27 table of c ontents our liquidity could be adversely impacted if we are unable to satisfy the covenants required by our credit facilities. our debt agreements contain covenants, including covenants restricting our and their ability to take certain actions and financial covenants. our ability to maintain our credit facilities may also be impacted by changes in our ownership base. more specifically, we may be required to prepay our bank financing facilities if any person acquires ownership of more than 50% of our common stock or, subject to certain exceptions, during any 24-month period, a majority of our board of directors is no longer comprised of individuals who were members of our board of directors on the first day of such period. our public debt securities also contain change of control provisions that would be triggered by a third-party acquisition of greater than 50% of our common stock coupled with a ratings downgrade. failure to comply with the terms of these debt facilities could result in an event of default. generally, if an event of default under any debt agreement occurs, then pursuant to cross default acceleration clauses, our outstanding debt and derivative contract payables could become due and/or terminated. in addition, in such events, our credit card processors could hold back payments to create a reserve. we cannot provide assurances that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay, or the ability to refinance the debt if such amounts were accelerated upon an event of default. if we are unable to appropriately balance our cost management and capital allocation strategies with our goal of satisfying guest expectations, it may adversely impact our business success. our goals call for us to provide high quality products and deliver high quality services. there can be no assurance that we can successfully balance these goals with our cost management and capital allocation strategies. our business also requires us to make capital allocation decisions across a broad scope of investment options with varying return profiles and time horizons for value realization. these include significant capital investment decisions such as ordering new ships, upgrading our existing fleet, enhancing our technology and/or data capabilities, and expanding our portfolio of land-based assets, based on expected market preferences, competition and projected demand. there can be no assurance that our strategies will be successful, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. investments in older tonnage, in particular, run the risk of not meeting expected returns and diluting related asset values. our attempts to expand our business into new markets and new ventures may not be successful. we opportunistically seek to grow our business through, among other things, expansion into new destinations or source markets and establishment of new ventures complementary to our current offerings. these attempts to expand our business increase the complexity of our business, require significant levels of investment and can strain our management, personnel, operations and systems. there can be no assurance that these business expansion efforts will develop as anticipated or that we will succeed, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks associated with our development and operation of key land-based destination projects may adversely impact our business or results of operations. we have invested, and will continue to invest, either directly or indirectly through joint ventures and partnerships, in a growing portfolio of key land-based projects including port and terminal facilities, private destinations and multi-brand destination projects. these investments can increase our exposure to certain key risks depending on the scope, location, and the ownership and management structure of these projects. these risks include susceptibility to weather events, exposure to local political/regulatory developments and policies, logistical challenges and human resource and labor risks. our reliance on travel agencies to sell and market our cruises exposes us to certain risks which, if realized, could adversely impact our business. we rely on travel agencies to generate the majority of bookings for our ships. accordingly, we must ensure that our commission rates and incentive structures remain competitive. if we fail to offer competitive compensation packages or fail to maintain our relationships, these agencies may be incentivized to sell cruises offered by our competitors to our detriment, which could adversely impact our operating results. our reliance on third-party sellers is particularly pronounced in certain markets. in addition, the travel agent industry is sensitive to economic 28 table of c ontents conditions that impact discretionary income of consumers. significant disruptions, especially disruptions impacting those agencies that sell a high volume of our business, or contractions in the industry could reduce the number of travel agencies available for us to market and sell our cruises, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. disruptions in our shoreside or shipboard operations or our information systems may adversely affect our results of operations. our principal executive office and principal shoreside operations are located in florida, and we have shoreside offices throughout the world. actual or threatened natural disasters (e.g., hurricanes/typhoons, earthquakes, tornadoes, fires or floods) or similar events in these locations may have a material impact on our business continuity, reputation and results of operations. in addition, substantial or repeated information system failures, computer viruses or cyber attacks impacting our shoreside or shipboard operations could adversely impact our business. we do not generally carry business interruption insurance for our shoreside or shipboard operations or our information systems. as such, any losses or damages incurred by us could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. the loss of key personnel, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel, or disruptions among our shipboard personnel due to strained employee relations could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends, in large part, on the skills and contributions of key executives and other employees, and on our ability to recruit, develop and retain high quality personnel as well as having adequate succession plans. as demand for qualified personnel in the industry grows, we must continue to effectively recruit, train, motivate and retain our employees, both shoreside and on our ships, in order to effectively compete in our industry, maintain our current business and support our projected global growth. as of december 31, 2019, 89% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. a dispute under our collective bargaining agreements could result in a work stoppage of those employees covered by the agreements. we may not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate these collective bargaining agreements when they expire. in addition, existing collective bargaining agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage on our ships. we may also be subject to or affected by work stoppages unrelated to our business or collective bargaining agreements. any such work stoppages or potential work stoppages could have a material adverse effect on our financial results, as could a loss of key employees, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel or disruptions among our personnel. business activities that involve our co-investments with third parties may subject us to additional risks. partnerships, joint ventures and other business structures involving our co-investments with third parties generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. in addition to financial risks, our co-investment activities may also present managerial and operational risks and expose us to reputational or legal concerns. these or other issues related to our co-investments with third parties could adversely impact our operations. past or pending business acquisitions or potential acquisitions that we may decide to pursue in the future carry inherent risks which could adversely impact our financial performance and condition. the company, from time to time, has engaged in acquisitions (e.g., our silversea cruises acquisition) and may pursue acquisitions in the future, which are subject to, among other factors, the company's ability to identify attractive business opportunities and to negotiate favorable terms for such opportunities. accordingly, the company cannot make any assurances that potential acquisitions will be completed timely or at all, or that if completed, we would realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisition. acquisitions also carry inherent risks such as, among others: (1) the potential delay or failure of our efforts to successfully integrate business processes and realizing expected synergies; (2) difficulty in aligning procedures, controls and/or policies; and (3) future unknown liabilities and costs that may be associated with an acquisition. in addition, acquisitions may also adversely impact our liquidity and/or debt levels, and the recognized value of goodwill and other intangible assets can be negatively 29 table of c ontents affected by unforeseen events and/or circumstances, which may result in an impairment charge. any of the foregoing events could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. we rely on supply chain vendors and third-party service providers who are integral to the operations of our businesses. these vendors and service providers may be unable or unwilling to deliver on their commitments or may act in ways that could harm our business. we rely on supply chain vendors to deliver key products to the operations of our businesses around the world. any event impacting a vendor's ability to deliver goods of the expected quality at the location and time needed could negatively impact our ability to deliver our cruise experience. events impacting our supply chain could be caused by factors beyond the control of our suppliers or us, including inclement weather, natural disasters, increased demand, problems in production or distribution and/or disruptions in third-party logistics or transportation systems, such as those caused by the recent coronavirus. interruptions to our supply chain could increase costs and could limit the availability of products critical to our operations. in order to achieve cost and operational efficiencies, we outsource to third-party vendors certain services that are integral to the operations of our global businesses, such as our onboard concessionaires, certain of our call center operations and operation of a large part of our information technology systems. we are subject to the risk that certain decisions are subject to the control of our third-party service providers and that these decisions may adversely affect our activities. a failure to adequately monitor a third-party service provider's compliance with a service level agreement or regulatory or legal requirements could result in significant economic and reputational harm to us. there is also a risk the confidentiality, privacy and/or security of data held by third parties or communicated over third-party networks or platforms could become compromised. if we are unable to keep pace with developments in technology or technological obsolescence, our operations or competitive position could become impaired. our business continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems. these technologies and systems require significant investment and must be proven, refined, updated, upgraded and/or replaced with more advanced systems in order to continue to meet our customers' demands and expectations. if we are unable to do so in a timely manner or within reasonable cost parameters or if we are unable to appropriately and timely train our employees to operate any of these new systems, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, which could result in higher than anticipated costs or impair our operating results. we are exposed to cyber security attacks and data breaches, including the risks and costs associated with protecting our systems and maintaining integrity and security of our business information, as well as personal data of our guests, employees and business partners. we are subject to cyber security attacks. these cyber attacks can vary in scope and intent from attacks with the objective of compromising our systems, networks and communications for economic gain to attacks with the objective of disrupting, disabling or otherwise compromising our maritime and/or shoreside operations. the attacks can encompass a wide range of methods and intent, including phishing attacks, illegitimate requests for payment, theft of intellectual property, theft of confidential or non-public information, installation of malware, installation of ransomware and theft of personal or business information. the breadth and scope of these attacks, as well as the techniques and sophistication used to conduct these attacks, have grown over time. a successful cyber security attack may target us directly, or it may be the result of a third party's inadequate care. in either scenario, the company may suffer damage to its systems and data that could interrupt our operations, adversely impact our reputation and brand and expose us to increased risks of governmental investigation, litigation, fines and other liability, any of which could adversely affect our business. furthermore, responding to such an attack and mitigating the risk of future attacks could result in additional operating and capital costs in systems technology, personnel, monitoring and other investments. in addition, we are also subject to various risks associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of sensitive information. in the course of doing business, we collect large volumes of employee, customer and other third-party data, including personally identifiable information and individual credit data, for various business purposes. we are subject to federal, state and international laws (including the european union 30 table of c ontents general data protection regulation), as well as industry standards, relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personally identifiable information and individual credit data. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between the company and its subsidiaries, and among the company, its subsidiaries and other parties with which the company has commercial relations. several jurisdictions have passed laws in this area, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. these laws continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. complying with emerging and changing international requirements has caused, and may cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices. if we fail to comply with the various applicable data collection and privacy laws, we could be exposed to fines, penalties, restrictions, litigation or other expenses, and our business could be adversely impacted. while we continue to evolve our cyber security practices in line with our business' reliance on technology and the changing external threat landscape, and we invest time, effort and financial resources to secure our systems, networks and communications, our security measures cannot provide absolute assurance that we will be successful in preventing or responding to all cyber security attacks. there can be no assurance that any breach or incident will not have a material impact on our operations and financial results. any breach, theft, loss, or fraudulent use of guest, employee, third-party or company data, could adversely impact our reputation and brand and our ability to retain or attract new customers, and expose us to risks of data loss, business disruption, governmental investigation, litigation and other liability, any of which could adversely affect our business. significant capital investments and other expenditures could be required to remedy the problem and prevent future breaches, including costs associated with additional security technologies, personnel, experts and credit monitoring services for those whose data has been breached. further, if we or our vendors experience significant data security breaches or fail to detect and appropriately respond to significant data security breaches, we could be exposed to government enforcement actions and private litigation. the potential unavailability of insurance coverage, an inability to obtain insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates or our failure to have coverage in sufficient amounts to cover our incurred losses may adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. we seek to maintain appropriate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates. we normally insure based on the cost of an asset rather than replacement value and we also elect to self-insure, co-insure, or use deductibles in certain circumstances for certain risks such as loss of use of a ship or a cyber security breach. the limits of insurance coverage we purchase are based on the availability of the coverage, evaluation of our risk profile and cost of coverage. accordingly, we are not protected against all risks and we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred which could result in an unexpected decrease in our revenue and results of operations in the event of an incident. we are members of four protection and indemnity ("p&amp;i") clubs, which are part of a worldwide group of 13 p&amp;i clubs, known as the international group of p&amp;i clubs (the ig ). p&amp;i coverage provided by the clubs is on a mutual basis and we are subject to additional premium calls in the event of a catastrophic loss incurred by any member of the 13 p&amp;i clubs, whereby the reinsurance limits purchased by the ig are exhausted. we are also subject to additional premium calls based on investment and underwriting shortfalls experienced by our own individual insurers. we cannot be certain that insurance and reinsurance coverage will be available to us and at commercially reasonable rates in the future or at all or, if available, that it will be sufficient to cover potential claims. additionally, if we or other insureds sustain significant losses, the result may be higher insurance premiums, cancellation of coverage, or the inability to obtain coverage. such events could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. environmental, labor, health and safety, financial responsibility and other maritime regulations could affect operations and increase operating costs. the united states and various state and foreign government or regulatory agencies have enacted or may enact environmental regulations or policies, such as requiring the use of low sulfur fuels (e.g. imo 2020), that could increase our direct cost to operate in certain markets, increase our cost for fuel, limit the supply of compliant fuel, cause us to incur significant expenses to purchase and/or develop new equipment and adversely impact the cruise 31 table of c ontents vacation industry. while we have taken and expect to continue to take a number of actions to mitigate the potential impact of certain of these regulations, there can be no assurances that these efforts will be successful or completed on a timely basis. there is increasing global regulatory focus on climate change, greenhouse gas (ghg) and other emissions. these regulatory efforts, both internationally and in the united states are still developing, and we cannot yet determine what the final regulatory programs or their impact will be in any jurisdiction where we do business. however, such climate change-related regulatory activity in the future may adversely affect our business and financial results by requiring us to reduce our emissions, purchase allowances or otherwise pay for our emissions. such activity may also impact us by increasing our operating costs, including fuel costs. in addition, we are subject to various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties that govern, among other things, discharge from our ships, safety standards applicable to our ships, treatment of disabled persons, health and sanitary standards applicable to our guests, security standards on board our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities to our guests. these issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. this could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that could subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. a change in our tax status under the united states internal revenue code, or other jurisdictions, may have adverse effects on our income . we and a number of our subsidiaries are foreign corporations that derive income from a u.s. trade or business and/or from sources within the united states. in connection with the year end audit, each year, drinker biddle &amp; reath llp, our u.s. tax counsel, delivers to us an opinion, based on certain representations and assumptions set forth in it, to the effect that this income, to the extent derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, is excluded from gross income for u.s. federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 883 of the internal revenue code. we believe that most of our income (including that of our subsidiaries) is derived from or incidental to the international operation of ships. our ability to rely on section 883 could be challenged or could change in the future. provisions of the internal revenue code, including section 883, are subject to legislative change at any time. moreover, changes could occur in the future with respect to the identity, residence or holdings of our direct or indirect shareholders, trading volume or trading frequency of our shares, or relevant foreign tax laws of liberia or bahamas, such that they no longer qualify as equivalent exemption jurisdictions, that could affect our eligibility for the section 883 exemption. accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be exempt from u.s. income tax on u.s. source shipping income in the future. if we were not entitled to the benefit of section 883, we and our subsidiaries would be subject to u.s. taxation on a portion of the income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships, which would reduce our net income. additionally, portions of our business are operated by companies that are within the united kingdom tonnage tax regime. further, some of our operations are conducted in jurisdictions where we rely on tax treaties to provide exemption from taxation. to the extent the united kingdom tonnage tax laws change or we do not continue to meet the applicable qualification requirements or if tax treaties are changed or revoked, we may be required to pay higher income tax in these jurisdictions, adversely impacting our results of operations. as budgetary constraints continue to adversely impact the jurisdictions in which we operate, increases in income tax regulations, tax audits or tax reform affecting our operations may be imposed. litigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and/or damage our reputation. our business is subject to various united states and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. in addition, improper conduct by our employees, agents or joint venture partners could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. in certain circumstances it may not be economical to defend against such matters and/or our legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 32 table of c ontents we are not a united states corporation and our shareholders may be subject to the uncertainties of a foreign legal system in protecting their interests. our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the business corporation act of liberia. the provisions of the business corporation act of liberia resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the united states. however, while most states have a fairly well developed body of case law interpreting their respective corporate statutes, there are very few judicial cases in liberia interpreting the business corporation act of liberia. as such, the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under liberian law are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in certain united states jurisdictions. for example, the right of shareholders to bring a derivative action in liberian courts may be more limited than in united states jurisdictions. there may also be practical difficulties for shareholders attempting to bring suit in liberia and liberian courts may or may not recognize and enforce foreign judgments. thus, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests with respect to actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a united states jurisdiction. provisions of our articles of incorporation, by-laws and liberian law could inhibit others from acquiring us, prevent a change of control, and may prevent efforts by our shareholders to change our management. certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and by-laws and liberian law may inhibit third parties from effectuating a change of control of the company without approval from our board of directors which could result in the entrenchment of current management. these include provisions in our articles of incorporation that prevent third parties, other than a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates, from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of our outstanding shares without the consent of our board of directors. 33 table of c ontents item 1b. unresolved staff comments none. item 2. properties information about our cruise ships, including their size and primary areas of operation, may be found within the operating strategies - fleet upgrade, maintenance and expansion section and the operations - cruise ships and itineraries sections in item 1 . business . information regarding our cruise ships under construction, estimated expenditures and financing may be found within the future capital commitments and funding needs and sources sections of item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. our principal executive office and principal shoreside operations are located in leased office buildings at the port of miami, florida. we also lease a number of other offices in the u.s. and throughout europe, asia, mexico, south america and australia to administer our brand operations globally. we believe that our facilities are adequate for our current needs and that we are capable of obtaining additional facilities as necessary. we also operate two private destinations which we utilize as ports-of-call on certain itineraries: (i) an island we own in the bahamas which we call cococay; and (ii) labadee, a secluded peninsula we lease on the north coast of haiti. item 3. legal proceedings on august 27, 2019, two lawsuits were filed against royal caribbean cruises ltd. in the u.s. district court for the southern district of florida under title iii of the cuban liberty and democratic solidarity act, also known as the helms-burton act. the complaint filed by havana docks corporation alleges it holds an interest in the havana cruise port terminal and the complaint filed by javier garcia-bengochea alleges that he holds an interest in the port of santiago, cuba, both of which were expropriated by the cuban government. the complaints further allege that royal caribbean cruises ltd. trafficked in those properties by embarking and disembarking passengers at these facilities. the plaintiffs seek all available statutory remedies, including the value of the expropriated property, plus interest, treble damages, attorneys' fees and costs. royal caribbean cruises ltd. filed its answer to each complaint on october 4, 2019. we believe we have meritorious defenses to the claims, and we intend to vigorously defend ourselves against them. we believe that it is unlikely that the outcome of these matters will have a material adverse impact to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. however, the outcome of litigation is inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties, and there can be no assurances that the final outcome of this case will not be material. we are routinely involved in claims typical within the travel and tourism industry. the majority of these claims are covered by insurance. although the outcome of any litigation is inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties, we believe it is unlikely that the outcome of such claims, net of expected insurance recoveries, will have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. item 4. mine safety disclosures none. 34 table of c ontents part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities market information our common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange ("nyse") under the symbol "rcl." holders as of february 21, 2020, there were 1,318 record holders of our common stock. since certain of our shares are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of shareholders, the foregoing number is not representative of the number of beneficial owners. dividends holders of our common stock have an equal right to share in our profits in the form of dividends when and if declared by our board of directors out of funds legally available. holders of our common stock have no rights to any sinking fund. there are no exchange control restrictions on remittances of dividends on our common stock since (1) we are and intend to maintain our status as a nonresident liberian entity under the liberia revenue code of 2000 as amended and the regulations thereunder, and (2) our ship-owning subsidiaries are not now engaged, and are not in the future expected to engage, in any business in liberia, including voyages exclusively within the territorial waters of the republic of liberia. under current liberian law, no liberian taxes or withholding will be imposed on payments to holders of our securities other than to a holder that is a resident liberian entity or a resident individual or an individual or entity subject to taxation in liberia as a result of having a permanent establishment within the meaning of the liberia revenue code of 2000 as amended in liberia. the declaration of dividends shall at all times be subject to the final determination of our board of directors that a dividend is prudent at that time in consideration of the needs of the business. refer to note 12 . shareholders' equity to our consolidated financial statements under quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments and other general we are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and fuel prices. we try to mitigate these risks through a combination of our normal operating and financing activities and through the use of derivative financial instruments pursuant to our hedging practices and policies. the financial impact of these hedging instruments is primarily offset by corresponding changes in the underlying exposures being hedged. we achieve this by closely matching the amount, term and conditions of the derivative instrument with the underlying risk being hedged. although certain of our derivative financial instruments do not qualify or are not accounted for under hedge accounting, our objective is not to hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. (refer to note 18. fair value measurements and derivative instruments to our consolidated financial statements underrisk factors 26 risk factors the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k are important factors that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historical results. it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks. the risks described below are only those known risks relating to our operations and financial condition that we consider material. there may be additional risks that we consider not to be material, or which are not known, and any of these risks could have the effects set forth below. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for a cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements. adverse worldwide economic, geopolitical or other conditions could reduce the demand for cruises and adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition including potentially impairing the value of our ships, goodwill and other assets. the demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic and geopolitical conditions. the slow pace of the economic recovery coupled with continued instability in the global economic landscape has had and continues to have an adverse effect on vacationers' discretionary income and consumer confidence. this, in turn, has resulted in cruise booking slowdowns, decreased cruise prices and lower onboard revenues for us and for others in the cruise industry as compared to more robust economic times. although the cruise industry continued to recover in 2012, recovery has been slow and has been hindered by ongoing economic instability, including the continuing european sovereign debt crisis and financial market volatility. in addition, certain countries have been more severely impacted by recent economic conditions than other economies including, for example, spain where we operate our pullmantur brand. we cannot predict with any certainty whether demand for cruises will continue to improve or the rate of such improvement. stagnant or worsening global economic conditions could result in a prolonged period of booking slowdowns, depressed cruise prices and reduced onboard revenues. demand for our cruises is also influenced by geopolitical events. unfavorable conditions, such as cross-border conflicts, civil unrest and governmental changes, especially in regions with popular ports of call, can undermine consumer demand and/or pricing for itineraries featuring these ports. continued unrest and economic instability could materially adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition including potentially impairing the value of our ships, goodwill and other assets. during 2012, we recognized total impairment related charges of $413.9 million associated with our pullmantur brand. see " item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ." despite the pullmantur related impairment charges, if the spanish economy weakens further or recovers more slowly than contemplated or if the economies of other markets (e.g. france, brazil, latin america) perform worse than contemplated in our discounted cash flow model, or if there are material changes to the projected future cash flows used in the impairment analyses, especially in net yields, an additional impairment charge of the pullmantur reporting unit's goodwill and trademarks and trade names may be required. we may not be able to obtain sufficient financing or capital for our needs or may not be able to do so on terms that are acceptable or consistent with our expectations. to fund our capital expenditures and scheduled debt payments, we have historically relied on a combination of cash flows provided by operations, drawdowns under available credit facilities, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the sale of equity or debt securities in private or public securities markets. the decrease in consumer cruise spending as a result of the costa concordia incident and the economic uncertainty in europe had an adverse impact on our cash flows from operations in 2012. see " adverse worldwide economic, geopolitical or other conditions.... " and " incidents or adverse publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry...." for more information. if 26 table of contents worldwide economic conditions worsen or there is another significant incident impacting the cruise industry, our operational cash flows could be negatively affected. although we believe we can access sufficient liquidity to fund our operations and obligations as expected, there can be no assurances to that effect. during 2013, we anticipate raising additional funds in the capital or credit markets as part of our refinancing strategy for our upcoming 2013 and 2014 maturities. our ability to access additional funding as and when needed, our ability to timely refinance and/or replace our outstanding debt securities and credit facilities on acceptable terms and, our cost of funding will depend upon numerous factors including but not limited to the vibrancy of the financial markets, our financial performance and credit ratings and the performance of our industry in general. see "item 7. management's discussion &amp; analysis of financial condition and results of operations funding needs and sources" for more information. our inability to satisfy the covenants required by our credit facilities could adversely impact our liquidity. our debt agreements contain covenants, including covenants restricting our ability to take certain actions and financial covenants that require us to maintain minimum net worth and fixed charge coverage ratios and limit our net debt-to-capital ratio. our ability to comply with the terms of our outstanding facilities may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions and other events, some of which may be beyond our control. in addition, our ability to make borrowings under our available credit facilities is subject to the absence of material adverse changes in our business. our ability to maintain our credit facilities may also be impacted by changes in our ownership base. more specifically, we may be required to prepay a majority of our debt facilities if (i) any person other than a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates and their respective affiliates (the "applicable group") acquires ownership of more than 33% of our common stock and the applicable group owns less of our common stock than such person or (ii) subject to certain exceptions, during any 24-month period, a majority of the board is no longer comprised of individuals who were members of the board on the first day of such period. certain of our outstanding debt securities also contain change of control provisions that would be triggered by the acquisition of greater than 50% of our common stock by a person other than a member of the applicable group coupled with a ratings downgrade. our failure to comply with the terms of our debt facilities could result in an event of default. generally, if an event of default under any debt agreement occurs, then pursuant to cross default acceleration clauses, our outstanding debt and derivative contract payables could become due and/or terminated. we cannot provide assurances that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay or refinance the borrowings under any of the credit facilities or settle other outstanding contracts if such amounts were accelerated upon an event of default. in addition, under several of our agreements with credit card processors that accept credit cards for the sale of cruises and other services, the credit card processor may hold back a reserve from our credit card receivables following the occurrence of certain events, including a default under our major credit facilities. as of december 31, 2012, we were not required to maintain any reserve under such agreements. incidents or adverse publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry, unusual weather conditions and other natural disasters or disruptions could affect our reputation as well as impact our sales and results of operations. the operation of cruise ships, airplanes, land tours, port facilities and shore excursions involves the risk of accidents, illnesses, environmental incidents and other incidents which may bring into question guest safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction which could negatively impact our reputation. incidents involving cruise ships, and, in particular the safety and security of guests and crew, such as the costa concordia incident, media coverage thereof, as well as adverse media publicity concerning 27 table of contents the cruise vacation industry or unusual weather patterns or natural disasters or disruptions, such as hurricanes and earthquakes, and the collateral impact thereof could impact demand for our cruises. the considerable expansion in the use of social media over recent years has compounded the potential scope of the negative publicity that could be generated by those incidents. if any such incident occurs during a time of high seasonal demand, the effect could disproportionately impact our results of operations for the year. in addition, any events which impact the travel industry more generally may negatively impact our ability to deliver guests to our cruises and/or interrupt our ability to obtain services and goods from key vendors in our supply chain. any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and on industry performance. the impact of disruptions in the global financial markets may affect the ability of our counterparties and others to perform their obligations to us. the financial crisis of 2008, including failures of financial service companies and the related liquidity crisis, disrupted the capital and credit markets and additional economic concerns from some of the countries in the european union continue to strain the financial markets both in the us and internationally. a recurrence of these disruptions could cause our counterparties and others to breach their obligations to us under our contracts with them. this could include failures of banks or other financial service companies to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements or to pay us amounts that may become due under our derivative contracts for hedging of fuel prices, interest rates and foreign currencies or other agreements. if any of the foregoing occurs it may have a negative impact on our cash flows, including our ability to meet our obligations, our results of operations and our financial condition. an increase in capacity worldwide or excess capacity in a particular market could adversely impact our cruise sales and/or pricing. although our ships can be redeployed, cruise sales and/or pricing may be impacted both by the introduction of new ships into the marketplace and by deployment decisions of ourselves and our competitors. a total of 19 new ships with approximately 65,000 berths are on order for delivery through 2017 in the cruise industry. the further growth in capacity from these new ships and future orders, without an increase in the cruise industry's share of the vacation market, could depress cruise prices and impede our ability to achieve yield improvement. in addition, to the extent that we or our competitors deploy ships to a particular itinerary and the resulting capacity in that region exceeds the demand, we may lower pricing and profitability may be lower than anticipated. any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition including potentially impairing the value of our ships, goodwill and other assets. if we are unable to appropriately balance our cost management strategy with our goal of satisfying guest expectations it may adversely impact our business success. our goals call for us to provide high quality products and deliver high quality services. there can be no assurances that we can successfully balance these goals with our cost containment efforts. we may lose business to competitors throughout the vacation market . we operate in the vacation market and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. we therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators, which provide other leisure options including hotels, resorts and package holidays and tours. we face significant competition from other cruise lines on the basis of cruise pricing, travel agent preference and also in terms of the nature of ships and services we offer to guests. our principal competitors within the cruise vacation industry include carnival corporation &amp; plc, which owns, among 28 table of contents others, aida cruises, carnival cruise lines, costa cruises, cunard line, holland america line, iberocruceros, p&amp;o cruises and princess cruises; disney cruise line; msc cruises; norwegian cruise line and oceania cruises. in the event that we do not compete effectively with other vacation alternatives and cruise companies, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. fears of terrorist and pirate attacks, war, and other hostilities and the spread of contagious diseases could have a negative impact on our results of operations. events such as terrorist and pirate attacks, war, and other hostilities and the resulting political instability, travel restrictions, the spread of contagious diseases and concerns over safety, health and security aspects of traveling or the fear of any of the foregoing have had, and could have in the future, a significant adverse impact on demand and pricing in the travel and vacation industry. as we continue to globalize our operations, we become susceptible to a wider range of adverse events. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our financial results. we earn revenues, pay expenses, recognize assets and incur liabilities in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including, among others, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar, the euro, the australian dollar and the brazilian real. in 2012, we derived approximately 49% of revenues from operations outside the united states. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must convert revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. therefore, absent offsetting changes in other foreign currencies, increases or decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar against other major currencies will affect our revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. we use derivative financial instruments to mitigate our net balance sheet exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations. however, there can be no assurances that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against major currencies, would not materially affect our financial results. in addition, we have ship construction contracts which are denominated in euros. while we have entered into euro-denominated forward contracts and collar options to manage a portion of the currency risk associated with these ship construction contracts, we are exposed to fluctuations in the euro exchange rate for the portion of the ship construction contracts that has not been hedged. additionally, if the shipyard is unable to perform under the related ship construction contract, any foreign currency hedges that were entered into to manage the currency risk would need to be terminated. termination of these contracts could result in a significant loss. environmental, labor, health and safety, financial responsibility and other maritime regulations could affect operations and increase operating costs. the united states and various state and foreign government or regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations or policies, such as requiring the use of low sulfur fuels, increasing fuel efficiency requirements, further restricting emissions, or other initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions that could increase our cost for fuel, cause us to incur significant expenses to purchase and/or develop new equipment and adversely impact the cruise vacation industry. some environmental groups have also lobbied for more stringent regulation of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise vacation industry and its environmental impact. see "item 1. business regulation environmental regulations." an increase in fuel prices not only impacts our fuel costs, but also some of our other expenses, such as crew travel, freight and commodity prices. 29 table of contents in addition, we are subject to various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties that govern, among other things, safety standards applicable to our ships, treatment of disabled persons, health and sanitary standards applicable to our guests, security standards on board our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities to our guests. these issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world, especially in light of the costa concordia incident. this could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that could subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. conducting business globally may result in increased costs and other risks. we operate our business globally and plan to continue to develop our international presence. operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including unstable local economic conditions, volatile local political conditions, potential changes in duties and taxes, including changing interpretations of existing tax laws and regulations, required compliance with additional laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses or governing the operations of foreign-based companies, currency fluctuations, interest rate movements, difficulties in operating under local business environments, u.s. and global anti-bribery laws or regulations, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings. in addition, if a country where we have significant operations or obligations leaves the euro currency system, our financial condition may be adversely impacted. if we are unable to address these risks adequately, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected, including potentially impairing the value of our ships, goodwill and other assets. operating globally also exposes us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements. in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business communities might not conform to international business standards. we must adhere to policies designed to promote legal and regulatory compliance as well as applicable laws and regulations. however, we might not be successful in ensuring that our employees, agents, representatives and other third parties with which we associate throughout the world properly adhere to them. failure by us, our employees or any of these third parties to adhere to our policies or applicable laws or regulations could result in penalties, sanctions, damage to our reputation and related costs which in turn could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. our attempts to expand our business into new markets may not be successful. while our historical focus has been to serve the north american cruise market, we have expanded our focus to increase our international guest sourcing, including sourcing from the brazilian, asian and australian markets. expansion into new markets requires significant levels of investment. there can be no assurance that these markets will develop as anticipated or that we will have success in these markets, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. ship construction, repair or revitalization delays or mechanical faults may result in cancellation of cruises or unscheduled drydocks and repairs and thus adversely affect our results of operations. we depend on shipyards to construct, repair and revitalize our cruise ships on a timely basis and in good working order. the sophisticated nature of building a ship involves risks. delays or mechanical faults in ship construction or revitalization have in the past and may in the future result in delays or cancellation of cruises or necessitate unscheduled drydocks and repairs of ships. these events and any related adverse publicity could result in lost revenue, increased operating expenses, or both, and thus adversely affect our results of operations. 30 table of contents shipyards and their subcontractors may experience financial difficulties which could cause or result in delay, ship cancellations, our inability to procure new capacity in a timely fashion or increases in shipbuilding costs that could adversely affect our results of operations. we rely on shipyards to construct, repair and revitalize our vessels. financial difficulties, liquidations or closures suffered by these shipyards and/or their subcontractors may impact the timely delivery or costs of new ships or the ability of shipyards to repair and revitalize our fleet in accordance with our needs or expectations. the shipyard that is building the two newbuilds for our tui cruises joint venture is currently experiencing financial difficulties. we have engaged in discussions with the shipyard to assess the impact on the ships they are building for tui cruises. this situation could have a material impact on the ability of the shipyard to deliver these ships in accordance with the terms of the contract, the costs borne by tui cruises associated with these ships and/or the financial support that we may need to provide (e.g. parent guarantees, additional equity contributions) to seek to ensure timely completion. in addition, there are a limited number of shipyards with the capability and capacity to build our new vessels and, accordingly, closures or consolidation in the cruise shipyard industry could impact our ability to construct new vessels when and as planned and/or could result in stronger bargaining power on the part of the shipyards and thus higher prices for our future ship orders. delivery delays and cancelled deliveries can adversely affect our results of operations, as can any constraints on our ability to build, repair and maintain our ships on a timely basis. our operating costs, especially fuel expenditures, could increase due to market forces and economic or geopolitical factors beyond our control. expenditures for fuel represent a significant cost of operating our business. if fuel prices rise significantly in a short period of time, we may be unable to increase fares or other fees sufficiently to offset fully our increased fuel costs. we routinely hedge a portion of our future fuel requirements to protect against rising fuel costs. however, there can be no assurance that our hedge contracts will provide a sufficient level of protection against increased fuel costs or that our counterparties will be able to perform under our hedge contracts, such as in the case of a counterparty's bankruptcy. further volatility in fuel prices or disruptions in fuel supplies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. our other operating costs, including food, payroll, airfare, taxes, insurance and security costs are all subject to increases due to market forces and economic or political conditions or other factors beyond our control. increases in these operating costs could adversely affect our profitability. unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our results of operations . we believe that port destinations are a major reason why guests choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. the availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including existing capacity constraints, constraints related to the size of certain ships, security concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, local governmental regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists. any limitations on the availability of our ports of call or on the availability of shore excursion and other service providers at such ports could adversely affect our results of operations. 31 table of contents price increases for commercial airline service for our guests or major changes or reduction in commercial airline service and/or availability could adversely impact the demand for cruises and undermine our ability to provide reasonably priced vacation packages to our guests. many of our guests depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to or from the ports where our cruises embark or disembark. increases in the price of airfare would increase the overall price of the cruise vacation to our guests which may adversely impact demand for our cruises. in addition, changes in the availability of commercial airline services could adversely affect our guests' ability to obtain airfare as well as our ability to fly our guests to or from our cruise ships which could adversely affect our results of operations. our reliance on travel agencies to sell and market our cruises exposes us to certain risks which, if realized, could adversely impact our business. because we rely on travel agencies to generate the majority of bookings for our ships, we must ensure that our commission rates and incentive structures remain competitive. if we fail to offer competitive compensation packages, these agencies may be incentivized to sell cruises offered by our competitors to our detriment, which could adversely impact our operating results. in addition, the travel agent industry is sensitive to economic conditions that impact discretionary income. significant disruptions, especially disruptions impacting those agencies that sell a high volume of our business, or contractions in the industry could reduce the number of travel agencies available for us to market and sell our cruises, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. disruptions in our shoreside operations or our information systems may adversely affect our results of operations. our principal executive office and principal shoreside operations are located at the port of miami, florida and we have call centers for reservations throughout the world. although we have developed disaster recovery and similar contingency plans, actual or threatened natural disasters (e.g. hurricanes, earthquakes, tornados, fires, floods) or similar events in these locations may have a material impact on our business continuity, reputation and results of operations. in addition, substantial or repeated information systems failures, computer viruses, cyber-attacks impacting our shoreside or shipboard operations could adversely impact our business. we do not carry business interruption insurance for the majority of our shoreside operations or our information systems. as such, any losses or damages incurred by us could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. failure to develop the value of our brands and differentiate our products could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends on the strength and continued development of our cruise brands and on the effectiveness of our brand strategies. failure to protect and differentiate our brands from competitors throughout the vacation market could adversely affect our results of operations. the loss of key personnel, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel, or disruptions among our shipboard personnel due to strained employee relations could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends, in large part, on the skills and contributions of key executives and other employees, and on our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees. we must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficient to maintain our current business and support our projected growth. furthermore, as of december 31, 2012, 80% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. a dispute under our collective bargaining agreements could result in a work stoppage of those employees covered by the agreements. a loss of key employees or disruptions among our personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. 32 table of contents business activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may subject us to additional risks. partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties, such as our joint venture to operate tui cruises, generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. in addition, actions by another investor may present additional risks of operational difficulties or reputational or legal concerns. a failure to keep pace with developments in technology or technological obsolescence could impair our operations or competitive position. our business continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems. these technologies and systems must be refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems in order to continue to meet our customers' demands and expectations. if we are unable to do so in a timely manner or within reasonable cost parameters or if we are unable to appropriately and timely train our employees to operate any of these new systems, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. a change in our tax status under the united states internal revenue code, or other jurisdictions, may have adverse effects on our income . we and a number of our subsidiaries are foreign corporations that derive income from a united states trade or business and/or from sources within the united states. drinker biddle &amp; reath llp, our united states tax counsel, has delivered to us an opinion, based on certain representations and assumptions set forth in it, to the effect that this income, to the extent derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, is exempt from united states federal income tax pursuant to section 883 of the internal revenue code. we believe that most of our income (including that of our subsidiaries) is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships. the provisions of section 883 are subject to change at any time by legislation. moreover, changes could occur in the future with respect to the identity, residence or holdings of our direct or indirect shareholders, trading volume or trading frequency of our shares, or relevant foreign tax laws of liberia or malta such that they no longer qualify as equivalent exemption jurisdictions, that could affect our eligibility for the section 883 exemption. accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be exempt from united states income tax on united states source shipping income in the future. if we were not entitled to the benefit of section 883, we and our subsidiaries would be subject to united states taxation on a portion of the income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships, which would reduce our net income. additionally, portions of our business are operated by companies that are within tonnage tax regimes of the u.k. and malta. further, some of the operations of these companies are conducted in jurisdictions where we rely on tax treaties to provide exemption from taxation. to the extent the tonnage tax laws of these countries change or we do not continue to meet the applicable qualification requirements or if tax treaties are changed or revoked, we may be required to pay higher income tax in these jurisdictions, resulting in lower net income. as budgetary constraints continue to adversely impact the jurisdictions in which we operate, increases in income tax regulations or tax reform affecting our operations may be imposed. 33 table of contents we are not a united states corporation and our shareholders may be subject to the uncertainties of a foreign legal system in protecting their interests. our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the business corporation act of liberia. the provisions of the business corporation act of liberia resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the united states. however, while most states have a fairly well developed body of case law interpreting their respective corporate statutes, there are very few judicial cases in liberia interpreting the business corporation act of liberia. as such, the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under liberian law are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain united states jurisdictions. for example, the right of shareholders to bring a derivative action in liberian courts may be more limited than in united states jurisdictions. there may also be practical difficulties for shareholders attempting to bring suit in liberia and liberian courts may or may not recognize and enforce foreign judgments. thus, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests with respect to actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a united states jurisdiction. litigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and/or damage our reputation. our business is subject to various united states and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. in addition, improper conduct by our employees, agents or joint venture partners could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. in certain circumstances it may not be economical to defend against such matters and/or a legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and liberian law could inhibit others from acquiring us, prevent a change of control, and may prevent efforts by our shareholders to change our management. certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and liberian law may inhibit third parties from effectuating a change of control of the company without board approval which could result in the entrenchment of current management. these include provisions in our articles of incorporation that prevent third parties, other than a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates, from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of our outstanding shares without the consent of our board of directors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 65 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments and other general we are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and fuel prices. we manage these risks through a combination of our normal operating and financing activities and through the use of derivative financial instruments pursuant to our hedging practices and policies. the financial impact of these hedging instruments is primarily offset by corresponding changes in the underlying exposures being hedged. we achieve this by closely matching the amount, term and conditions of the derivative instrument with the underlying risk being hedged. although certain of our derivative financial instruments do not qualify or are not accounted for under hedge accounting, we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. we monitor our derivative positions using techniques including market valuations and sensitivity analyses. (see note 13. fair value measurements and derivative instruments to our consolidated financial statements underrisk factors 21 risk factors regarding shipyards. celebrity cruises. celebrity cruises was founded in 1990 and operated three ships between 1992 and 1995. between 1995 and 1997, celebrity cruises began its first capital expansion program, adding three century-class ships, which range in size from approximately 1,750 to 1,850 berths. during this time, celebrity cruises also disposed of one of its original three ships. from 2000 through 2002, celebrity cruises took delivery of four millennium-class ships. each millennium-class ship is approximately 90,000 gross tons with approximately 2,050 berths. the millennium-class ships are a progression from the century-class ships and elevated celebrity cruises position in the premium segment of the marketplace. the millennium-class ships build on the brand primary strengths, including gourmet dining, spacious staterooms and suites with verandas and spa facilities featuring a 7 table of contents large hydropool with neck massage, body jets and services including acupuncture at sea . on the millennium-class ships, an entire deck is dedicated to health and fitness. to further enhance the onboard experience, celebrity cruises offers a more intimate setting in piano, champagne, and martini bars and lounges. in 2004, celebrity cruises continued to expand its product offerings with the launch of celebrity xpedition , a 100-berth ship that offers a more intimate experience onboard a smaller ship with sailings to the galapagos islands. from 2005 to 2008, celebrity cruises entered into contracts with a shipyard to build five solstice-class ships. the solstice-class ships are a new wide-body construction class of ships, and are approximately 122,000 gross tons each with approximately 2,850 berths. this new wide-body construction design provides for many intimate areas onboard the ship. the solstice-class ships incorporate many new and improved design features including the industry first ever lawn club . the lawn club is over a half acre venue featuring live grass for guest enjoyment. celebrity cruises also introduced the hot glass show, a fully functional glass blowing studio which operates at the lawn club onboard solstice-class ships. the solstice-class ships are also equipped with solar foils and solar panels, another industry first. approximately 90% of the ships staterooms are outside and approximately 85% of the staterooms have verandas. in 2008, celebrity cruises took delivery of celebrity solstice, the first of the five solstice-class ships. celebrity equinox and celebrity eclipse are expected to enter service in the third quarters of 2009 and 2010, respectively. two unnamed ships are expected to enter service in the third quarter of 2011 and the fourth quarter of 2012, respectively. in 2009, celebrity galaxy , a 1,850-berth ship currently part of celebrity cruises, will be sold to tui cruises to serve as its first ship and will sail under a new name beginning in may 2009. pullmantur. pullmantur was founded in 1971 and currently operates six ships which range in size from approximately 1,000 to 2,300 berths. as a result of the acquisition of pullmantur in november 2006, we expanded our overall fleet by five ships and approximately 4,500 berths. furthermore, pullmantur purchased a 1,000-berth ship which is currently sailing under the name ocean dream . in may 2007, zenith was redeployed from celebrity cruises to pullmantur. before redeployment to pullmantur, zenith underwent renovations to incorporate pullmantur signature elements, while adding approximately 38 new verandas and 25 staterooms. empress of the seas and sovereign of the seas were redeployed from royal caribbean international to pullmantur in march 2008 and november 2008, respectively. before redeployment to pullmantur, each ship underwent renovations to incorporate pullmantur signature elements. upon the return of island star in april 2009 from island cruises, the ship will be redeployed to pullmantur and will sail under the name pacific dream . before redeployment to pullmantur, the ship will undergo renovations to incorporate pullmantur signature elements. this ship will be dedicated to the latin american market in support of pullmantur latin american expansion. azamara cruises. in may 2007, blue dream was redeployed from pullmantur to azamara cruises, and is sailing under the name azamara journey . in september 2007, blue moon was also redeployed from pullmantur to azamara cruises and is sailing under the name azamara quest . before redeployment to the azamara cruises brand, each ship underwent renovations to incorporate azamara cruises signature elements, while upgrading guest suites and staterooms, and adding two new specialty restaurants. cdf croisi&egrave;res de france. in april 2008, holiday dream was redeployed from pullmantur to cdf croisi&egrave;res de france and sails as its first ship under the name bleu de france. before redeployment to cdf croisi&egrave;res de france, holiday dream underwent renovations, including the addition of a french bistro and a spa with a sea water center, to customize the ship for french guests. new markets and itineraries our ships operate worldwide with a selection of itineraries that call on approximately 425 ports. new ships, including both newly constructed ships and those we acquire, allow us to expand into new markets and itineraries. our brands have expanded their mix of itineraries, while strengthening our ability to penetrate the european, latin american and caribbean markets further. 8 table of contents in april 2008, independence of the seas was introduced in the united kingdom and began offering itineraries from the united kingdom to the mediterranean, ireland and the canary islands. navigator of the seas , which had offered the u.k. program in 2007, offered cruises sailing out of spain and italy during the summer of 2008. in the fall, both royal caribbean international and celebrity cruises expanded in australia, new zealand and the south pacific with royal caribbean international rhapsody of the seas and celebrity millennium . in december 2008, royal caribbean international introduced new southern caribbean itineraries from panama on enchantment of the seas. also in late 2008, legend of the seas began offering sailings throughout asia from singapore and shanghai, and radiance of the seas began offering cruises in south america around cape horn. in 2009, we will continue to focus on the acceleration of royal caribbean international and celebrity cruise strategic positioning as global cruise brands while expanding pullmantur. an unprecedented 22 ships will be sailing in europe for the company and royal caribbean international will have the most european capacity of any non-european brand as it increases its capacity to eight ships: independence of the seas, voyager of the seas, navigator of the seas, brilliance of the seas, jewel of the seas, legend of the seas, splendour of the seas, and vision of the seas . brilliance of the seas will remain in europe year round throughout 2009, and then will begin offering sailings from dubai starting in january 2010. in late 2009, legend of the seas will return to asia and commence year round deployment throughout 2010. celebrity cruises will also increase its capacity in europe in 2009. with five ships, the brand will have its greatest presence ever in europe, with sailings being offered on celebrity solstice, celebrity equinox, celebrity century, celebrity summit and celebrity constellation . the 2009 season will also mark the debut of celebrity equinox with holy land sailings from rome, which will be a first for the brand. the royal caribbean international brand will return to israel in 2009, having last visited israel in 2000. azamara cruises will offer european sailings on both azamara journey and azamara quest . also, pullmantur and cdf croisi&egrave;res de france will continue to offer european itineraries on all ships. in january 2009, mariner of the seas began year round cruises to mexico from los angeles, california. also in january, vision of the seas began offering seasonal caribbean itineraries from the dominican republic. starting in the fall of 2009, both the celebrity cruises and royal caribbean international brands are expanding into new north american markets. celebrity mercury will operate caribbean cruises from baltimore, maryland and charleston, south carolina and royal caribbean international will operate mexico cruises from san diego, california with the radiance of the seas. royal caribbean international will debut oasis of the seas in the eastern caribbean in december 2009. also starting in december, royal caribbean international will increase its capacity in brazil, deploying both splendour of the seas and vision of the seas. in an effort to secure desirable berthing facilities for our ships, and to provide new or enhanced cruise destinations for our passengers, we actively assist or invest in the development or enhancement of certain port facilities and infrastructure, including mixed-use commercial properties, located in strategic ports of call. generally, we collaborate with local, private or governmental entities by providing management and/or financial assistance and often enter into long-term port usage arrangements. in exchange for our involvement, we generally secure preferential berthing rights for our ships. international passengers passenger ticket revenues generated by sales originating in countries outside of the united states were approximately 40%, 37%, and 24% of total passenger ticket revenues in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. international passengers have grown from approximately 511,000 in 2004 to approximately 1.3 million in 2008. we sell and market our global brands, royal caribbean international, celebrity cruises and azamara cruises, to passengers outside of north america through our offices in the united kingdom, germany, norway, italy, spain, singapore, china, brazil, and australia. we believe that having a local presence in these markets provides us with the ability to react faster to local market conditions as well as providing us with the ability to better understand our customer base in each respective market. we further extend our reach with a network of 48 independent international representatives located throughout the world. historically, our focus has been to primarily source our passengers for our global brands from north america. currently, we are expanding our focus to sell and market our cruise brands to countries outside of north america through fleet innovation and by responding to cultural characteristics of our global passengers. 9 table of contents in 2008, we continued our strategy of acquiring or developing brands custom-tailored to specific markets when we closed on our joint venture agreement with tui ag, a european tourism and shipping company that owns 51% of tui travel. this joint venture operates tui cruises, a new cruise brand targeted at the cruise market in germany. tui cruises will complement two of our existing brands custom-tailored to specific markets, pullmantur, which is targeted at passengers primarily in spain and latin america and cdf croisi&egrave;res de france, which is targeted at passengers primarily in france. health, safety, security and environmental policies we are committed to protecting the health, safety and security of our passengers, employees and others working on our behalf. we are also committed to protecting the marine environment in which our vessels sail and the communities in which we operate by minimizing adverse environmental consequences and using resources efficiently. to this end, we established a unified department to oversee global security, maritime safety, medical and public health areas, and environmental stewardship. the organization is comprised of technical experts in each area focused on improving our systems for prevention and response. revenue management we believe we have some of the most advanced revenue management capabilities in the industry, which enables us to make more advantageous decisions about pricing, inventory management and marketing actions. we are continuously working to improve our systems and tools through increased forecasting capabilities, ongoing improvements to our understanding of price/demand relationships, and greater automation of the decision processes. we believe these revenue management capabilities allow us to make more advantageous decisions to enhance revenue, especially during these uncertain economic times. technological capabilities we continue to invest in information technology to align with our business strategies. in 2008, we completed the integration of pullmantur and cdf croisi&egrave;res de france into our reservations and accounting platforms, enabling additional synergies across brands. also in 2008, we completed major upgrades to the reservations platform to support future needs. the most significant changes enabled the selling of oasis of the seas with expanded pricing options and key enhancements. we also invested in our shoreside and shipboard systems integration, most notably the advanced shipboard revenue platform, where we enabled the sale of specialty dining on our websites, prior to guests boarding the vessel. this capability allows our guests to pre-arrange not only shore excursions in advance of their cruise vacation, but also allows guests to make reservations for one of our specialty restaurants. to further align with our business strategy, we completed a major web globalization initiative, launching our full royal caribbean international website with localized content in a number of major international markets, including the u.k., spain, latin america, and brazil. this year also marked the completion of a major customer relationship management initiative, an enhanced marketing datamart, which allows us to better target marketing campaigns based on a wide array of customer touch points, including web, call centers, and onboard. our fleet expansion was also a major focus for it this year, with the launch of celebrity solstice , our first ship with a converged data/voice network and an enhanced in-stateroom entertainment system. this will serve as a model for future ships and opens the door to a number of exciting opportunities to enhance the guest experience. finally, we have implemented a number of key technologies across the enterprise to further enhance our guest experience and reduce operating costs. this includes enhancing the guest internet and telecommunications capabilities onboard. these technologies also include a consolidation strategy across systems, providing higher service levels and at the same time reducing operating expenses. 10 table of contents travel agency support and direct business travel agencies generate the majority of bookings for our ships. we are committed to further developing and strengthening this very important distribution channel. our sales teams focus on the unique qualities of each brand and provide support to the travel agency community. the trade support &amp; service department, with branded call center operations, further supports the travel agency community in delivering the cruise vacation experience. cruisingpower.com continues to be an industry-leading website exclusive to the travel agency community. over the past two years, the website launched a number of new online tools designed to increase travel agent productivity and the focus in 2008 has been on increasing travel agents adoption of these tools. this includes vip cruisepass , a desktop alert designed to give travel agents alerts to special offers, weather updates, itinerary changes and latest news. emarketing provides travel agents with a personalized link that directs customers to a video magazine or cruise planner interactive experience. econnect is an online quoting tool that enables travel agents to send up to five online quotes to their database with real-time pricing and web-based functionality. in addition, royal caribbean international continues to enhance its online training certification program, university of wow, where travel agents can now achieve up to an expert-plus graduate level certification. in 2008 celebrity cruises launched five star academy, a travel partner learning suite featuring five sequential modules. the modules cover from brand basics to accommodations, amenities, and destinations. in 2008, we completed several key enhancements to simplify the online booking process via our new cruisematch trade booking tool based on feedback from our travel agent partners. the second phase of this investment will be launched in 2009 to offer additional functionality such as enabling travel agents to make bookings in an existing group block, as well as provide group insurance. pullmantur and azamara cruises were also incorporated into the online tool in 2008. in 2008, we also launched a program directed to help support our travel agents during the current economic downturn. the program, agent support action plan (asap), includes multiple components to help the agency community during this period. these components include a one percent commission supplement on any cruise bookings made between january 1 and february 28, 2009 for sailings from january 2009 through march 2010, increased co-op funding for qualifying agencies undertaking significant marketing plans, relaxed requirements to qualify for tour conductor credits which will help agents earn more money while encouraging group bookings, and an individual agent booking incentive through which agents can earn a complimentary cruise. we have customer service representatives that are trained to assist travel agents in providing a higher level of service and insight , the first service tool of its kind in the industry, assists agencies with productivity and enhances customer service. we currently operate reservation call centers to support our travel agent community in the united states, canada, france, spain and the united kingdom offering flexibility and extended hours of operations. we have certified vacation planners in our call centers in miramar, wichita and addlestone offering cruise planning expertise and personal attention for direct bookings. in addition, direct booking channels for royal caribbean international, celebrity cruises and azamara cruises are available through our internet sites at www.royalcaribbean.com , www.celebrity.com and www.azamaracruises.com. we continue to experience an increase in the use of our internet sites and other direct booking channels as a source of our overall bookings. passenger services we offer to handle virtually all travel aspects related to passenger reservations and transportation, including arranging passenger pre- and post-hotel stay arrangements and air transportation. we offer our passengers the ability to check-in online in order to alleviate boarding time during embarkation. our air/sea program offers passengers the choice of our standard air or custom air programs. our standard air program allows our passengers to benefit from comprehensive relationships that we maintain with many major airlines ranging from fare negotiation and space handling to baggage transfer. our custom air program enables passengers to customize their flight arrangements, including selection of airline, specific flights and class of service. the royal caribbean international passenger loyalty program, crown &amp; anchor society, has over five million members worldwide and includes benefits such as a secured dedicated section in the www.royalcaribbean.com internet site with special cruise 11 table of contents offers and onboard amenities. the celebrity cruises and azamara cruises passenger loyalty program, captain club, has over one million members. captain club members enjoy exclusive members-only onboard programs and amenities, and are provided with a secured area on the celebrity cruises website, which communicates select products. operations cruise ships and itineraries as of december 31, 2008, we operate 38 ships under five cruise brands, with a selection of worldwide itineraries ranging from two to 24 nights that call on approximately 425 destinations. celebrity equinox and oasis of the seas are expected to enter revenue service in the third and fourth quarters of 2009, respectively. the following table represents summary information concerning our ships and their areas of operation based on 2009 itineraries (subject to change): ship year ship entered service 1 approximate berths primary areas of operation royal caribbean international oasis of the seas 2009 5,400 eastern caribbean independence of the seas 2008 3,600 europe, eastern/western caribbean liberty of the seas 2007 3,600 eastern/western caribbean freedom of the seas 2006 3,600 eastern/western caribbean jewel of the seas 2004 2,100 caribbean, panama canal, canada/new england, europe mariner of the seas 2003 3,100 south america, mexican riviera serenade of the seas 2003 2,100 alaska, southern caribbean, panama canal navigator of the seas 2002 3,100 western caribbean, europe brilliance of the seas 2002 2,100 europe adventure of the seas 2001 3,100 southern caribbean radiance of the seas 2001 2,100 south america, mexican riviera, alaska explorer of the seas 2000 3,100 eastern/southern caribbean, bermuda, canada/new england voyager of the seas 1999 3,100 western caribbean, europe vision of the seas 1998 2,000 southern caribbean, europe, brazil enchantment of the seas 1997 2,250 western/southern caribbean rhapsody of the seas 1997 2,000 australia/nz, alaska grandeur of the seas 1996 1,950 eastern/western caribbean, bermuda, canada/new england splendour of the seas 1996 1,800 europe, brazil legend of the seas 1995 1,800 asia, europe majesty of the seas 1992 2,350 bahamas monarch of the seas 1991 2,350 bahamas celebrity cruises celebrity equinox 2009 2,850 europe, caribbean celebrity solstice 2008 2,850 europe, eastern caribbean celebrity constellation 2002 2,050 caribbean, europe, canada/new england, panama canal celebrity summit 2001 2,050 europe, southern caribbean celebrity infinity 2001 2,050 alaska, panama canal, south america celebrity millennium 2000 2,050 southern caribbean, panama canal, hawaii, alaska, australia/nz celebrity mercury 1997 1,850 alaska, pacific northwest, panama canal, hawaii, bahamas, eastern caribbean celebrity galaxy 3 1996 1,850 southern caribbean celebrity century 1995 1,800 western caribbean, bahamas, europe celebrity xpedition 4 2004 100 galapagos islands 12 table of contents pullmantur ocean dream 5 2008 1,000 southern caribbean sky wonder 11 2006 1,200 eastern mediterranean oceanic 5 2001 1,150 western mediterranean zenith 7 1992 1,400 western europe, baltic empress 2 1990 1,600 eastern mediterranean sovereign 2 1988 2,300 western mediterranean pacific dream 10 1990 1,350 mexico azamara cruises azamara journey 8 2004 700 europe, caribbean, panama canal azamara quest 9 2006 700 europe, asia cdf croisi&egrave;res de france bleu de france 6 2005 750 mediterranean, caribbean total 88,250 1 the year a ship entered service refers to the year in which the ship commenced cruise revenue operations for the company, which is the same as the year the ship was built, unless otherwise noted. 2 empress (formerly empress of the seas ) and sovereign (formerly sovereign of the seas) were redeployed from royal caribbean international to pullmantur in march 2008 and november 2008, respectively. 3 celebrity galaxy will be sold to tui cruises to serve as its first ship and will sail under a new name beginning in may 2009. 4 celebrity xpedition was built in 2001. 5 ocean dream and oceanic were built in 1981and 1965, respectively. 6 bleu de france (formerly holiday dream) was built in 1981 and was redeployed from pullmantur to cdf croisi&egrave;res de france in april 2008. 7 zenith was revitalized in 2007 and redeployed to pullmantur in may 2007. 8 azamara journey (formerly blue dream ) was built in 2000 and was redeployed from pullmantur to azamara cruises in may 2007. 9 azamara quest (formerly blue moon ) was built in 2000 and was redeployed from pullmantur to azamara cruises in september 2007. 10 celebrity cruises horizon was built in 1990 and is currently chartered to island cruises. we anticipate the return of the ship in april 2009 and intend to redeploy the ship to pullmantur. the ship will sail under the name pacific dream . 1 1 sky wonder was built in 1984 and will begin sailing under the name atlantic star in march 2009. we have two oasis-class ships on order for royal caribbean international. these ships are being built in finland by stx finland cruise oy (formerly aker yards oy). we have four solstice-class ships on order for celebrity cruises. these ships are being built in germany by meyer werft gmbh. see item 1a. risk factors regarding shipyards. the expected dates these ships will enter service and their planned number of berths are as follows: ship expected to enter service approximate berths royal caribbean international: oasis-class: oasis of the seas 4th quarter 2009 5,400 allure of the seas 4th quarter 2010 5,400 celebrity cruises: solstice-class: celebrity equinox 3rd quarter 2009 2,850 celebrity eclipse 3rd quarter 2010 2,850 unnamed 3rd quarter 2011 2,850 unnamed 4th quarter 2012 2,850 total berths 22,200 13 table of contents seasonality our revenues are seasonal based on the demand for cruises. demand is strongest for cruises during the northern hemisphere summer months and holidays. passengers and capacity selected statistical information is shown in the following table (see terminology and non-gaap financial measures under item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , for definitions). (amounts include pullmantur effective january 1, 2007): year ended december 31, 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 passengers carried 4,017,554 3,905,384 3,600,807 3,476,287 3,405,227 passenger cruise days 27,657,578 26,594,515 23,849,606 23,178,560 22,661,965 available passenger cruise days (apcd) 26,463,637 25,155,768 22,392,478 21,733,724 21,439,288 occupancy 104.5% 105.7% 106.5% 106.6% 105.7% cruise pricing our cruise ticket prices include accommodations and a wide variety of activities and amenities, including meals and entertainment. prices vary depending on the destination, cruise length, cabin category selected and the time of year the cruise takes place. although we grant credit terms to certain travel agencies and tour operators outside of the united states, our payment terms generally require an upfront deposit to confirm a reservation with the balance due prior to the sailing. during the selling period of a cruise, we continually monitor and adjust our cruise ticket prices for available passenger cabins based on demand, with the objective of maximizing net yields. historically, we have opened cruises for sale at least one year in advance, and often as much as two years in advance. additionally, we offer air transportation as a service for guests that elect to utilize our transportation program. our air transportation program is available from major cities in the united states and canada, and from select cities in europe, mainly in the united kingdom. prices vary by gateway and destination. generally, air tickets are sold to guests at prices close to cost. passenger ticket revenues accounted for 72.4%, 72.0% and 73.4% of total revenues in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. onboard activities and other revenues our cruise brands offer modern fleets with a wide array of onboard services, amenities and activities, including swimming pools, sun decks, lawn decks, spa facilities (which include massage and exercise facilities), beauty salons, bungee jumping trampolines, gaming facilities, lounges, bars, a wide variety of dining options and venues, las vegas-style entertainment, hot glass shows, retail shopping, libraries, dedicated recreational areas for youth of all ages, cinemas, conference centers, internet cafes and shore excursions at each port of call. royal caribbean international offers rock climbing walls on its ships, additional activities including ice skating rinks and in-line skating on its voyager-class and freedom-class ships, sports courts, a surf simulator and an interactive water park called the h2o zone on its freedom-class ships. while many onboard activities are included in the base price of a cruise, we realize additional revenues from, among other things, gaming, the sale of alcoholic and other beverages, specialty restaurants, gift shop items, shore excursions, photography, spa/salon and fitness services and art auctions. royal caribbean international, celebrity cruises and azamara cruises offer enhanced functionality on our internet sites for selecting shore excursions, specialty dining and amenities prior to embarkation. royal caribbean international and celebrity cruises also offer a catalogue gift service, which is now offered via the internet to provide travel agents and others the opportunity to purchase gifts for guests. in conjunction with our cruise vacations, we offer pre- and post-cruise hotel packages to our royal caribbean international, celebrity cruises and azamara cruises guests. we also offer escorted, premium land-tour vacation packages in alaska, asia, australia, the canadian rockies, europe, new zealand and latin america. these escorted, premium land-tour vacations are offered exclusively in conjunction with our cruises marketed to our royal caribbean international, celebrity cruises and azamara cruises guests through our cruise-tour operations, royal celebrity tours. pullmantur also offers land-based tour packages to spanish and european vacation travelers including hotels and flights to caribbean resorts and sells land based packages to europe aimed at latin 14 table of contents american guests. in addition, we sell cruise vacation protection coverage, which provides guests with coverage for trip cancellation, medical protection and baggage protection. onboard and other revenues accounted for 27.6%, 28.0% and 26.6% of total revenues in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. segment reporting we operate five cruise brands, royal caribbean international, celebrity cruises, pullmantur, azamara cruises and cdf croisi&egrave;res de france. the brands have been aggregated as a single reportable segment based on the similarity of their economic characteristics as well as products and services provided. (for financial information see item 8. financial statements and supplementary data .) employees as of december 31, 2008, we employed approximately 4,400 full-time and 650 part-time employees worldwide in our shoreside operations. we also employed approximately 44,600 shipboard employees. as of december 31, 2008, approximately 80% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. we believe that our relationship with our employees is good. insurance we maintain insurance on the hull and machinery of our ships, which includes additional coverage for disbursements, earnings and increased value, which are maintained in amounts related to the value of each ship. the coverage for each of the hull policies is maintained with syndicates of insurance underwriters from the british, scandinavian, french, united states and other international insurance markets. we maintain liability protection and indemnity insurance for each of our ships through either the united kingdom mutual steam ship assurance association (bermuda) limited or steamship mutual underwriting association (bermuda) limited. our protection and indemnity liability insurance is done on a mutual basis and we are subject to additional premium calls in amounts based on claim records of all members of the mutual protection and indemnity association. we are also subject to additional premium calls based on investment shortfalls experienced by the insurer. we maintain war risk insurance for our ships, including terrorist risk insurance, on each ship through a norwegian war risk insurance organization. this coverage includes coverage for physical damage to the ship which is not covered under the hull policies as a result of war exclusion clauses in such hull policies. we also maintain protection and indemnity war risk coverage for risks that would be excluded by the rules of the indemnity insurance organizations, subject to certain limitations. consistent with most marine war risk policies, under the terms of our war risk insurance coverage, underwriters can give seven days notice to us that the policy will be canceled and reinstated at higher premium rates. we also maintain insurance coverage for certain events, which would result in a delayed delivery of our contracted new ships, which we normally place starting approximately two years prior to the scheduled delivery dates. insurance coverage for shoreside property, shipboard inventory, and general liability risks are maintained with insurance underwriters in the united states and the united kingdom. we do not carry business interruption insurance for our ships nor our shoreside operations based on our evaluation of the risks involved and protective measures already in place, as compared to the cost of insurance. all insurance coverage is subject to certain limitations, exclusions and deductible levels. in addition, in certain circumstances, we co-insure a portion of these risks. premiums charged by insurance carriers, including carriers in the maritime insurance industry, increase or decrease from time to time and tend to be cyclical in nature. these cycles are impacted both by our own loss experience and by losses incurred in direct and reinsurance markets. we historically have been able to obtain insurance coverage in amounts and at premiums we have deemed to be commercially acceptable. no assurance can be given that affordable and secure insurance markets will be available to us in the future, particularly for war risk insurance. 15 table of contents the athens convention relating to the carriage of passengers and their luggage by sea (1974) and the 1976 protocol to the athens convention are generally applicable to passenger ships. the united states has not ratified the athens convention; however, with limited exceptions, the 1976 athens convention protocol may be contractually enforced with respect to those of our cruises that do not call at a united states port. the international maritime organization diplomatic conference agreed upon a new protocol to the athens convention on november 1, 2002. the 2002 protocol, which is not yet in force, substantially increases the level of compulsory insurance, which must be maintained by passenger ship operators. no assurance can be given as to if or when the 2002 protocol will come into force. if in force, no assurance can be given that affordable and secure insurance markets will be available to provide the level of coverage required under the 2002 protocol. trademarks we own a number of registered trademarks related to the royal caribbean international, celebrity cruises, pullmantur, azamara cruises and cdf croisi&egrave;res de france cruise brands. the registered trademarks include the name royal caribbean and its crown and anchor logo, the name celebrity cruises and its x logo, the names pullmantur cruises and pullmantur and their logos, the name azamara cruises and its logo, the name cdf croisi&egrave;res de france and its logo, and the names of various cruise ships. we believe trademarks related to the royal caribbean international, celebrity cruises and pullmantur cruises brands are widely recognized throughout the world and have considerable value. we also believe trademarks related to our new brands, azamara cruises and cdf croisi&egrave;res de france, have received recent recognition throughout the world and have significant value. regulation our ships are regulated by various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties in force in the jurisdictions in which they operate. in addition, our ships are registered in the bahamas, malta or in the case of celebrity xpedition , ecuador. each ship is subject to regulations issued by its country of registry, including regulations issued pursuant to international treaties governing the safety of the ship and its passengers. each country of registry conducts periodic inspections to verify compliance with these regulations. ships operating out of united states ports are subject to inspection by the united states coast guard for compliance with international treaties and by the united states public health service for sanitary conditions. our ships are also subject to similar inspections pursuant to the laws and regulations of various other countries our ships visit. our ships are required to comply with international safety standards defined in the safety of life at sea convention. the safety of life at sea convention standards are revised from time to time and the most recent modifications are being phased in through 2010. we do not anticipate that we will be required to make any material expenditures in order to comply with these rules. we are required to obtain certificates from the united states federal maritime commission relating to our ability to satisfy liability in cases of non-performance of obligations to passengers, as well as casualty and personal injury. pursuant to the united states federal maritime commission regulations, we arrange through our insurers for the provision of guarantees aggregating $45.0 million for our ship-operating companies as a condition to obtaining the required certificates. the united states federal maritime commission has proposed various revisions to the financial responsibility regulations, which could require us to significantly increase the amount of our bonds and accordingly increase our costs of compliance. we are also required by the united kingdom and other jurisdictions to establish our financial responsibility for any liability resulting from the non-performance of our obligations to passengers from these jurisdictions. in the united kingdom, we are currently required by the united kingdom passenger shipping association to provide performance bonds totaling approximately &pound;42.0 million. we are also required to pay to the united kingdom civil aviation authority a non-refundable tax of &pound;1 per passenger. we are subject to various united states and international laws and regulations relating to environmental protection. under such laws and regulations, we are prohibited from, among other things, discharging certain materials, such as petrochemicals and plastics, into the waterways. we have made, and will continue to make, capital and other expenditures to comply with environmental laws and 16 table of contents regulations. from time to time, environmental and other regulators consider more stringent regulations, which may affect our operations and increase our compliance costs. we believe that the impact of cruise ships on the global environment will continue to be an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world and, accordingly, this will likely subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. our ships are subject to the international maritime organization regulations under the international convention for the prevention of pollution from ships (the marpol regulations ), which impose limitations on the sulfur content of fuel used by ships operating worldwide. the marpol regulations also provide for special emission control areas ( ecas ) to be established with more stringent limitations on sulfur emissions. in 2008, the marpol regulations were amended (the amendment ) to require reductions in sulfur emissions by reducing the maximum sulfur content in fuel oil that may be used in ecas to 1.0% by 2010. the amendment also introduced progressive reductions in nitrogen oxide emissions from both existing and new marine diesel engines by 2011. compliance with the marpol regulations will increase our fuel and operating costs, due to the higher cost of purchasing low sulfur fuel. in addition, compliance with the new standards under the amendment may require the development of new engine designs or exhaust gas treatment systems, which may result in significant additional costs. in 2010, a european union directive also regarding the use of low sulfur fuels for passenger ships becomes effective. the directive places a 0.1% sulfur content limit on all marine fuels used by such ships while alongside in european union ports. compliance with this directive will require us to use distillate fuels such as marine gas oil, which will increase our fuel costs. the international labour organization, an agency of the united nations that develops worldwide employment standards, has adopted a new consolidated maritime labour convention (the convention ). the convention reflects standards and conditions to govern all aspects of crew management for all ships in international commerce, including additional requirements not previously in effect. the convention may be ratified in 2010, in which case it would enter into force in 2011. if ratified, our crew costs may increase in order to comply with the convention. we are required to obtain certificates from the united states coast guard relating to our ability to satisfy liability in cases of water pollution. pursuant to united states coast guard regulations, we arrange through our insurers for the provision of guarantees aggregating $348.0 million as a condition to obtaining the required certificates. we believe that we are in material compliance with all the regulations applicable to our ships and that we have all licenses necessary to conduct our business. health, safety, security and financial responsibility issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant government authorities in the united states and internationally. from time to time, various regulatory and legislative changes may be proposed that could impact our operations and would likely subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. taxation of the company united states federal income tax the following discussion of the application of the united states federal income tax laws to us and our subsidiaries is based on the current provisions of the united states internal revenue code, treasury department regulations, administrative rulings, and court decisions. all of the foregoing is subject to change, and any such change could affect the accuracy of this discussion. application of section 883 of the internal revenue code we and our subsidiary, celebrity cruises inc., the operator of celebrity cruises and azamara cruises, are foreign corporations engaged in a trade or business in the united states, and our ship-owning subsidiaries are foreign corporations that, in many cases, depending upon the itineraries of their ships, receive income from sources within the united states. under section 883 of the internal revenue code, certain foreign corporations are not subject to united states income or branch profits tax on united states source income derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, including income from the leasing of such ships. 17 table of contents a foreign corporation will qualify for the benefits of section 883 if, in relevant part: (1) the foreign country in which the foreign corporation is organized grants an equivalent exemption to corporations organized in the united states; and (2)(a) more than 50% of the value of the corporation capital stock is owned, directly or indirectly, by individuals who are residents of a foreign country that grants such an equivalent exemption to corporations organized in the united states, or (b) the stock of the corporation (or the direct or indirect corporate parent thereof) is primarily and regularly traded on an established securities market in the united states or another qualifying country such as norway. in the opinion of our united states tax counsel, drinker biddle &amp; reath llp, based on the representations and assumptions set forth in that opinion, we, celebrity cruises inc. and our ship-owning subsidiaries qualify for the benefits of section 883 because we and each of those subsidiaries are incorporated in liberia or malta, which are qualifying countries, and our common stock is primarily and regularly traded on an established securities market in the united states or norway. if, in the future, (1) liberia no longer qualifies as an equivalent exemption jurisdiction, and we do not reincorporate in a jurisdiction that does qualify for the exemption, or (2) we fail to qualify as a publicly traded corporation, we and all of our ship-owning or operating subsidiaries that rely on section 883 for tax exemption on qualifying income would be subject to united states federal income tax on their united states source shipping income and income from activities incidental thereto. we believe that most of our income and the income of our ship-owning subsidiaries is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships and, therefore, is exempt from taxation under section 883. in 2005, final regulations became effective under section 883, which, among other things, narrow somewhat the scope of activities that are considered by the internal revenue service to be incidental to the international operation of ships. the activities listed in the regulations as not being incidental to the international operation of ships include income from the sale of air and land transportation, shore excursions and pre- and post-cruise tours. to the extent the income from these activities is earned from sources within the united states, that income will be subject to united states taxation; but the determination of the precise amount of such united states source income involves some uncertainties. under certain circumstances, changes in the identity, residence or holdings of our direct or indirect shareholders could cause our common stock not to be regularly traded on an established securities market within the meaning of the regulations under section 883. to substantially reduce any such risk, in may 2000, our articles of incorporation were amended to prohibit any person, other than our two existing largest shareholders, from owning, directly or constructively as determined for purposes of section 883(c)(3) of the internal revenue code and the regulations promulgated under it, more than 4.9% of the relevant class or classes of our shares. under liberian law, this amendment may not be enforceable with respect to shares of common stock that were voted against the amendment or that were recorded as abstaining from the vote. also, it should be noted that section 883 has been the subject of legislative modifications in past years that have had the effect of limiting its availability to certain taxpayers, and there can be no assurance that future legislation will not preclude us from obtaining the benefits of section 883. taxation in the absence of an exemption under section 883 of the internal revenue code if we, celebrity cruises inc., or our ship-owning subsidiaries were to fail to meet the requirements of section 883 of the internal revenue code, or if the provision was repealed, then, as explained below, such companies would be subject to united states income taxation on a portion of their income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships. because we and celebrity cruises inc. conduct a trade or business in the united states, we and celebrity cruises inc. would be taxable at regular corporate rates on our separate company taxable income (i.e., without regard to the income of our ship-owning subsidiaries), from united states sources, which includes 100% of income, if any, from transportation that begins and ends in the united states (not including possessions of the united states), 50% of income from transportation that either begins or ends in the united states, and no income from transportation that neither begins nor ends in the united states. the legislative history of the transportation income source rules suggests that a cruise that begins and ends in a united states port, but that calls on more than one foreign port, will derive united states source income only from the first and last legs of such cruise. this conclusion is not free from doubt, however, because there are no regulations or other internal revenue service interpretations of the above rules. in addition, if any of our earnings and profits effectively connected with our united states trade or business were withdrawn, or were deemed to have been withdrawn, from our united states trade or business, those withdrawn amounts would be subject to a branch profits tax 18 table of contents at the rate of 30%. the amount of such earnings and profits would be equal to the aforesaid united states source income, with certain generally minor adjustments, less income taxes. we and celebrity cruises inc. would also be potentially subject to tax on portions of certain interest paid by us at rates of up to 30%. if section 883 were not available to our ship-owning subsidiaries, each such subsidiary would be subject to a special 4% tax on its united states source gross transportation income, if any, each year because it does not have a fixed place of business in the united states and its income is derived from the leasing of a ship. such united states source gross transportation income may be determined under any reasonable method, including ratios of days traveling directly to or from united states ports to total days traveling, or of the lessee united states source gross income from the ship (as determined under the source rules discussed in the preceding paragraph, and subject to the assumptions and qualifications set forth therein) to the lessee total gross income from the ship. maltese income tax our pullmantur ship owner-operator subsidiaries qualify as licensed shipping organizations in malta. no maltese income tax is charged on the income derived from shipping activities of a licensed shipping organization. instead, a licensed shipping organization is liable to pay a tonnage tax based on the net tonnage of the ship or ships registered under the relevant provisions of the merchant shipping act. a company qualifies as a shipping organization if it engages in qualifying activities and it obtains a license from the registrar-general to enable it to carry on such activities. qualifying activities include, but are not limited to, the ownership, operation (under charter or otherwise), administration and management of a ship or ships registered as a maltese ship in terms of the merchant shipping act and the carrying on of all ancillary financial, security and commercial activities in connection therewith. our maltese operations that do not qualify as licensed shipping organizations, which are not considered significant, remain subject to normal maltese corporate income tax. united kingdom income tax the brilliance of the seas is operated by a company that is strategically and commercially managed in the united kingdom, which has elected to be subject to the united kingdom tonnage tax regime ( u.k. tonnage tax ). companies subject to u.k. tonnage tax pay a corporate tax on a notional profit determined with reference to the net tonnage of qualifying vessels. normal united kingdom corporate income tax is not chargeable on the relevant shipping profits of a qualifying u.k. tonnage tax company. the requirements for a company to qualify for the u.k. tonnage tax regime include being subject to united kingdom corporate income tax, operating qualifying ships, which are strategically and commercially managed in the united kingdom, and fulfilling a seafarer training requirement. relevant shipping profits include income from the operation of qualifying ships and from shipping related activities. our united kingdom income from non-shipping activities which do not qualify under the u.k. tonnage tax regime and which are not considered significant, remain subject to united kingdom corporate income tax. state taxation we, celebrity cruises inc. and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to various united states state income taxes which are generally imposed on each state portion of the united states source income subject to federal income taxes. additionally, the state of alaska subjects an allocated portion of the total income of companies doing business in alaska and certain other affiliated companies to alaska corporate state income taxes and also imposes a 33% tax on income from onboard gambling activities conducted in alaska waters. this did not have a material impact to our results of operations for all years presented. 19 table of contents other taxation we and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to income tax in the united states or other jurisdictions on income that does not qualify for exemption under section 883 or tonnage tax regimes. the tax on such income was not material to our results of operations for all years presented. website access to reports we make available, free of charge, access to our annual reports, all quarterly and current reports and all amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission through our website at www.rclinvestor.com . the information contained on our website is not a part of any of these reports and is not incorporated by reference herein. executive officers of the company our executive officers are: name age position richard d. fain 61 chairman, chief executive officer and director adam m. goldstein 49 president and chief executive officer, royal caribbean international daniel j.hanrahan 51 president and chief executive officer, celebrity cruises and azamara cruises brian j. rice 50 executive vice president and chief financial officer harri u. kulovaara 56 executive vice president, maritime gonzalo chico barbier 48 president and chief executive officer, pullmantur richard d. fain has served as a director since 1979 and as our chairman and chief executive officer since 1988. mr. fain has been involved in the shipping industry for over 25 years. adam m. goldstein has served as president of royal caribbean international since february 2005 and as its president and chief executive officer since september 2007. mr. goldstein has been employed with royal caribbean since 1988 in a variety of positions, including executive vice president, brand operations of royal caribbean international, senior vice president, total guest satisfaction and senior vice president, marketing. mr. goldstein served as national chair of the united states travel association (formerly, travel industry association of america) in 2001. daniel j. hanrahan has served as president of celebrity cruises since february 2005 and as its president and chief executive officer since september 2007. mr. hanrahan also serves as president and chief executive officer of azamara cruises. from 1999 until february 2005, mr. hanrahan served in a variety of positions with the royal caribbean international brand, including senior vice president, sales and marketing. brian j. rice has served as executive vice president and chief financial officer since november 2006. mr. rice has been employed with royal caribbean since 1989 in a variety of positions including executive vice president, revenue performance. in such capacity, mr. rice was responsible for revenue management, air/sea, groups, international operations, decision support, reservations and customer service for both royal caribbean international and celebrity cruises. as part of his responsibilities, mr. rice oversees revenue performance. harri u. kulovaara has served as executive vice president, maritime, since january 2005. mr. kulovaara is responsible for fleet design and newbuild operations. mr. kulovaara also chairs our maritime safety advisory board. mr. kulovaara has been employed with royal caribbean since 1995 in a variety of positions, including senior vice president, marine operations, and senior vice president, quality assurance. mr. kulovaara is a naval architect and engineer. gonzalo chico barbier has served as president and chief executive officer of pullmantur since june 2008. from 1995 to june 2008, mr. chico served as executive president of tnt spain, a division of tnt, a global distribution, logistics and international mail service company. from 1986 until 1995, mr. chico was employed in a variety of positions with ford motor company in spain and in the united kingdom, including pan-european fleet business manager of ford of europe, ltd. 20 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k are important factors, among others, that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historical results. it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, this list should not be considered a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. (see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for a cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements.) the adverse impact of the continuing worldwide economic downturn on the demand for cruises could adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. the demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic conditions. the current worldwide economic downturn has had an adverse effect on vacationers discretionary income and consumer confidence which has resulted in cruise booking slowdowns, decreased cruise prices and lower onboard revenues for us and for the others in the cruise industry. we cannot predict the extent or duration of this downturn or the timing or strength of a subsequent economic recovery. however, if the downturn continues for an extended period of time or worsens, we could experience a prolonged period of booking slowdowns, depressed cruise prices and reduced onboard revenues. this could adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition including the impairment of the value of our ships, goodwill and other intangible assets. we may not be able to obtain sufficient financing or capital for our needs or may not be able to do so on terms that are acceptable or consistent with our expectations. to fund our capital expenditures and scheduled debt payments, we have historically relied on a combination of cash flows provided by operations, drawdowns under available credit facilities, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the sale of equity or debt securities in private or public securities markets. the decrease in consumer cruise spending as a result of the current economic environment is adversely impacting our cash flows from operations. the disruption in the credit markets has resulted in a lack of liquidity worldwide which may affect our ability to successfully raise capital or to do so on acceptable terms. these factors may prevent us from having sufficient available capital or financing to meet our needs or to do so on acceptable terms. during 2008, our credit rating was lowered from bbb- with a negative outlook to bb with a negative outlook by standard and poor s. in january 2009, standard and poor placed our credit rating on credit watch with negative implications. in addition, our credit rating was lowered from ba1 with a stable outlook to ba2 with a negative outlook by moody s. there is no assurance that our credit ratings will not be lowered further. the lowering of our credit ratings may increase our cost of financing and can make it more difficult for us to access the financial markets. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources. as of december 31, 2008, we had two ships of a new oasis-class designated for royal caribbean international and four solstice-class ships designated for celebrity cruises on order. we expect to take delivery of celebrity equinox and oasis of the seas in july 2009 and november 2009, respectively. we have committed financing for all of the solstice-class ships and have commitments for government financing guarantees from finnvera, the export credit agency of finland for 80% of the financed amount of the oasis-class ships . we must still secure financing for oasis of the seas and allure of the seas, and, although we believe that we will be able to do so, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so or that we will be able to do so on acceptable terms. the impact of disruptions in the global financial markets may affect the ability of our counterparties and others to perform their obligations to us. the economic events over the past several months, including recent failures of financial service companies and the related liquidity crisis, have disrupted the capital and credit markets. these disruptions could cause our counterparties and others to breach their obligations to us under our contracts with them. this could include failures of banks or other financial service companies to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements or to pay us amounts that may become due under our derivative contracts for hedging of fuel prices, interest rates and foreign currencies or other agreements. if this occurs it may have a negative impact on our cash flows including our ability to meet our obligations, results of operations and financial condition. 21 table of contents the increase in capacity resulting from delivery of newbuilds currently on order within the cruise industry could further adversely impact the demand for cruises or cruise pricing. a total of 34 new ships are on order for delivery through 2012 in the cruise industry, six of which are ours. the current worldwide economic downturn and tighter credit markets have already resulted in a weaker demand environment which has led to lower cruise prices and lower onboard purchases, all of which have adversely affected our revenues. the further growth in capacity from these new ships, without an increase in the cruise industry share of the vacation market, could further depress cruise prices, compounding with the current adverse economic environment to hinder our ability for a quick recovery. we may lose business to competitors throughout the vacation market . we operate in the vacation market and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. we therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators, which provide other leisure options including hotels, resorts and package holidays and tours. we face significant competition from other cruise lines, both on the basis of cruise pricing and also in terms of the nature of ships and services we offer to passengers. our principal competitors within the cruise vacation industry include carnival corporation &amp; plc, which owns, among others, aida cruises, carnival cruise lines, costa cruises, cunard line, holland america line, p&amp;o cruises and princess cruises and has a joint venture with orizonia corporation under which they operate iberocruceros; disney cruise line; msc cruises; norwegian cruise line and oceania cruises. in the event that we do not compete effectively with other vacation alternatives and cruise companies, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. fears of terrorist and pirate attacks, war, and other hostilities and the spread of contagious diseases could have a negative impact on our results of operations. events such as terrorist and pirate attacks, war, and other hostilities and the resulting political instability, travel restrictions, the spread of contagious diseases and concerns over safety, health and security aspects of traveling have had, and could have in the future, a significant adverse impact on demand and pricing in the travel and vacation industry. these events could also impact our ability to source qualified crew from throughout the world at competitive costs and, therefore, increase our shipboard employee costs. incidents or adverse publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry or unusual weather conditions could affect our reputation and harm our future sales and results of operations. the operation of cruise ships involves the risk of accidents, illnesses and other incidents which may bring into question passenger safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction and create a perception that cruising is more dangerous than other vacation alternatives. incidents involving cruise ships, adverse media publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry or unusual weather patterns or natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes, could impact demand and consequently have an adverse impact on our results of operations and on future industry performance. environmental, health and safety, financial responsibility and other maritime regulations could affect operations and increase operating costs. the united states and various state and foreign government or regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations or policies, such as requiring the use of low sulfur fuels, increasing fuel efficiency requirements or further restricting emissions, that could adversely impact the cruise vacation industry. some environmental groups have also lobbied for more stringent regulation of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise vacation industry and its environmental impact. in addition, we are subject to various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties that govern, among 22 table of contents other things, safety standards applicable to our ships, health and sanitary standards applicable to our passengers, security standards on board our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities to our passengers. these issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. this could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that would subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. conducting business internationally may result in increased costs and other risks. we operate our business internationally and plan to continue to develop our international presence. operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks. examples include unstable local political or economic conditions and risk of increases in duties and taxes as well as changes in laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses, or governing the operations of foreign-based companies. additional risks include currency fluctuations, interest rate movements, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings. if we are unable to address these risks adequately, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. we have ship construction contracts, which are denominated in euros. while we have entered into euro-denominated forward contracts to manage a portion of the currency risk associated with these ship construction contracts, we are exposed to fluctuations in the euro exchange rate for the portion of the ship construction contracts that has not been hedged. if the shipyard is unable to perform under the related ship construction contract, any foreign currency hedges that were entered into to manage the currency risk would need to be terminated. termination of these contracts could result in a significant loss. our attempts to expand our business into new markets may not be successful. historically our focus has been to serve the north american cruise market, which continues to be our primary source of cruise passengers. we have expanded our focus to increase our international passenger sourcing, most recently, in the brazilian and australian markets. expansion into new markets requires significant levels of investment. there can be no assurance that these markets will develop as anticipated or that we will have success in these markets, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. ship construction delays or mechanical faults may result in cancellation of cruises or unscheduled drydocks and repairs and thus adversely affect our results of operations. we depend on shipyards to construct and deliver our cruise ships on a timely basis and in good working order. the sophisticated nature of building a ship involves risks. delays or mechanical faults in ship construction have in the past and may in the future result in delays or cancellation of cruises or necessitate unscheduled drydocks and repairs of ships. we have, for example, experienced mechanical problems with the pod propulsion units on certain ships and there can be no assurance that we will not experience such problems in the future. these events and any related adverse publicity could result in lost revenue, increased operating expenses, or both, and thus adversely affect our results of operations. the current worldwide economic downturn is resulting in financial difficulties for shipyards and their subcontractors. this may cause or result in delivery delays, ship cancellations or increases in shipbuilding costs that could adversely affect our results of operations. the current downturn in the worldwide economy is causing a loss of business for shipyards and their subcontractors which could result in financial difficulties, liquidations or closures. these events could adversely affect the timely delivery or costs of new ships or the ability of shipyards to repair and refurbish our existing fleet in accordance with our needs or expectations. delivery delays and cancelled deliveries can adversely affect our results of operations, as can any constraints on our ability to repair and maintain our ships on a timely basis. in addition, the cruise shipyard industry is undergoing consolidation, which could result in stronger bargaining power on the part of the shipyards, and thus higher prices for our future ship orders. 23 table of contents our operating costs and taxes could increase due to market forces and economic or geo- political factors beyond our control. our operating costs, including fuel, food, payroll, airfare for our shipboard personnel, insurance and security costs are subject to increases due to market forces and economic or political instability or other factors beyond our control. increases in these operating costs could adversely affect our profitability. in addition, the recent volatility in the price of fuel is making our ability to predict fuel prices extremely difficult. united states, state and local authorities as well as foreign authorities periodically consider increases in taxes. any such tax increases could also cause an increase in our costs. unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our results of operations . we believe that port destinations are a major reason why passengers choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. the availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, existing capacity constraints, security concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, local governmental regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists. any limitations on the availability of our ports of call or on the availability of shore excursion and other service providers at such ports could adversely affect our results of operations. price increases for commercial airline service for our passengers or major changes or reduction in commercial airline service could adversely impact the demand for cruises and undermine our ability to provide reasonably priced vacation packages to our passengers. many of our passengers depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to or from the ports where our cruises embark or disembark. increases in the price of airfare would increase the overall price of the cruise vacation to our passengers which may adversely impact demand for our cruises. in addition, changes in the availability of commercial airline services could adversely affect our passenger ability to obtain airfare as well as our ability to fly our passengers to or from our cruise ships which could adversely affect our results of operations. changes or disruptions to external distribution channels for our guest bookings could adversely affect our results of operations. we rely on travel agencies to generate the majority of bookings for our ships. if the current worldwide economic downturn continues for an extended period of time or worsens, these agencies could be adversely impacted and significant disruptions or contractions could occur to these businesses. this could reduce the distribution channels available for us to market and sell our cruises. if this were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. the loss of key personnel or our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends, in large part, on the skills and contributions of key executives and other employees, and on our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees. we must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficient to maintain our current business and support our projected growth. a loss of key employees could adversely affect our results of operations. a change in our tax status under the united states internal revenue code, or other jurisdictions, may have adverse effects on our income . we and a number of our subsidiaries are foreign corporations that derive income from a united states trade or business and/or from sources within the united states. drinker biddle &amp; reath llp, our united states tax counsel, has delivered to us an opinion, based on certain representations and assumptions set forth in it, to the effect that this income, to the extent derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, is exempt from united states income tax pursuant to section 883 of the internal revenue code. we believe that most of our income (including that of our subsidiaries) is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships. 24 table of contents it should also be noted that the provisions of section 883 are subject to change at any time by legislation. moreover, changes could occur in the future with respect to the identity, residence or holdings of our direct or indirect shareholders, or relevant foreign tax laws, that could affect our eligibility for the section 883 exemption. accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be exempt from united states income tax on united states source shipping income in the future. if we were not entitled to the benefit of section 883, we and our subsidiaries would be subject to united states taxation on a portion of the income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships, which would reduce our net income. see taxation of the company above for a discussion of such taxation in the absence of an exemption under section 883. finally, changes in the income tax laws affecting our operations in malta, the united kingdom or elsewhere could result in higher income taxes being charged against our operations, resulting in lower net income. we are controlled by principal shareholders that have the power to determine our policies, management and actions requiring shareholder approval. as of february 12, 2009, a. wilhelmsen as., a norwegian corporation indirectly owned by members of the wilhelmsen family of norway, owned approximately 20.1% of our common stock and cruise associates, a bahamian general partnership indirectly owned by various trusts primarily for the benefit of certain members of the pritzker family and a trust primarily for the benefit of certain members of the ofer family, owned approximately 15.6% of our common stock. a sale of shares by a. wilhelmsen as. or cruise associates could cause a drop in our share prices. a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates are parties to a shareholders agreement and have the power to determine, among other things our policies, the persons who will be our directors and officers, and actions requiring shareholder approval. the shareholders agreement provides that our board of directors will consist of four nominees of a. wilhelmsen as., four nominees of cruise associates and our chief executive officer. during the term of the shareholders agreement, certain corporate actions require the approval of at least one director nominated by a. wilhelmsen as. and one director nominated by cruise associates. our principal shareholders are not prohibited from engaging in a business that may compete with our business, subject to certain exceptions. if any person other than a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates, our two principal shareholders, acquires ownership of more than 30% of our common stock and our two principal shareholders, in the aggregate, own less of our common stock than such person and do not collectively have the right to elect, or to designate for election, at least a majority of the board of directors, we may be obligated to prepay indebtedness outstanding under the majority of our credit facilities, which we may be unable to replace on similar terms. if this were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our liquidity and operations. we are not a united states corporation and our shareholders may be subject to the uncertainties of a foreign legal system in protecting their interests. our corporate affairs are governed by our restated articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the business corporation act of liberia. the provisions of the business corporation act of liberia resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the united states. however, while most states have a fairly well developed body of case law interpreting their respective corporate statutes, there are very few judicial cases in liberia interpreting the business corporation act of liberia. as such, the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under liberian law are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain united states jurisdictions. for example, the right of shareholders to bring a derivative action in liberian courts may be more limited than in united states jurisdictions. there may also be practical difficulties for shareholders attempting to bring suit in liberia and liberian courts may or may not recognize and enforce foreign judgments. thus, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests with respect to actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a united states jurisdiction. 25 table of contents litigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and/or damage our reputation. our business is subject to various united states and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. in addition, improper conduct by our employees or agents could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. in certain circumstances it may not be economical to defend against such matters and/or a legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments and other general we are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and fuel prices. we manage these risks through a combination of our normal operating and financing activities and through the use of derivative financial instruments pursuant to our hedging practices and policies. the financial impacts of these hedging instruments are primarily offset by corresponding changes in the underlying exposures being hedged. we achieve this by closely matching the amount, term and conditions of the derivative instrument with the underlying risk being hedged. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. we monitor our derivative positions using techniques including market valuations and sensitivity analyses. (see note 15. fair value measurements to our consolidated financial statements underrisk factors 21 risk factors the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k are important factors, among others, that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historical results. it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. consequently, this list should not be considered a complete statement of all potential risks or uncertainties. (see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for a cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements.) the adverse impact of the current worldwide economic environment on the demand for cruises could adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. the demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic and business conditions. the current worldwide economic environment, including high unemployment rates, the volatility in the price of fuel and declines in the securities, real estate and other markets, has had an adverse effect on vacationers discretionary income and consumer confidence. this, in turn, has resulted in cruise booking slowdowns, decreased cruise prices and lower onboard revenues for us and for the others in the cruise industry. while we have recently begun to discern improvements in the current economic environment, we cannot predict the extent or strength of these improvements. if the current environment worsens, we could experience a prolonged period of booking slowdowns, depressed cruise prices and reduced onboard revenues. this could adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition including the impairment of the value of our ships, goodwill and other intangible assets. we may not be able to obtain sufficient financing or capital for our needs or may not be able to do so on terms that are acceptable or consistent with our expectations. to fund our capital expenditures and scheduled debt payments, we have historically relied on a combination of cash flows provided by operations, drawdowns under available credit facilities, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the sale of equity or debt securities in private or public securities markets. the decrease in consumer cruise spending as a result of the current economic environment is adversely impacting our cash flows from operations. the disruption of the credit markets in 2008 and 2009 resulted in a lack of liquidity worldwide. a recurrence of these events may affect our ability to successfully raise capital or to do so on acceptable terms. these factors may prevent us from having sufficient available capital or financing to meet our needs or to do so on acceptable terms. in addition, our senior debt credit rating is currently bb- with a negative outlook by standard and poor and ba3 with a negative outlook by moody and our corporate credit rating is ba2 with a negative outlook by moody s. there is no assurance that our credit ratings will not be lowered further. the lowering of our credit ratings may increase our cost of financing and can make it more difficult for us to access the financial markets. we will be required to secure allure of the seas if at the time we draw down on our loan to purchase the vessel our senior debt is rated below bb- by standard &amp; poor or below ba3 by moody s. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources. 21 the impact of disruptions in the global financial markets may affect the ability of our counterparties and others to perform their obligations to us. the economic events during 2008 and 2009, including failures of financial service companies and the related liquidity crisis, disrupted the capital and credit markets. a recurrence of these disruptions could cause our counterparties and others to breach their obligations to us under our contracts with them. this could include failures of banks or other financial service companies to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements or to pay us amounts that may become due under our derivative contracts for hedging of fuel prices, interest rates and foreign currencies or other agreements. if this occurs it may have a negative impact on our cash flows including our ability to meet our obligations, results of operations and financial condition. the increase in capacity resulting from delivery of newbuilds currently on order within the cruise industry could further adversely impact the demand for cruises or cruise pricing. a total of 27 new ships are on order for delivery through 2013 in the cruise industry, four of which are ours. the current worldwide economic environment has led to lower cruise prices and lower onboard purchases, all of which have adversely affected our revenues. the further growth in capacity from these new ships, without an increase in the cruise industry share of the vacation market, could further depress cruise prices and compound our ability to achieve yield improvement. we may lose business to competitors throughout the vacation market . we operate in the vacation market and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. we therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators, which provide other leisure options including hotels, resorts and package holidays and tours. we face significant competition from other cruise lines on the basis of cruise pricing, travel agent preference and also in terms of the nature of ships and services we offer to passengers. our principal competitors within the cruise vacation industry include carnival corporation &amp; plc, which owns, among others, aida cruises, carnival cruise lines, costa cruises, cunard line, holland america line, iberocruceros, p&amp;o cruises and princess cruises; disney cruise line; msc cruises; norwegian cruise line and oceania cruises. in the event that we do not compete effectively with other vacation alternatives and cruise companies or our competitors offer travel agents higher commission rates and incentives in the future, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. fears of terrorist and pirate attacks, war, and other hostilities and the spread of contagious diseases could have a negative impact on our results of operations. events such as terrorist and pirate attacks, war, and other hostilities and the resulting political instability, travel restrictions, the spread of contagious diseases and concerns over safety, health and security aspects of traveling have had, and could have in the future, a significant adverse impact on demand and pricing in the travel and vacation industry. these events could also impact our ability to source qualified crew from throughout the world at competitive costs and, therefore, increase our shipboard employee costs. incidents or adverse publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry or unusual weather conditions could affect our reputation and harm our future sales and results of operations. the operation of cruise ships involves the risk of accidents, illnesses and other incidents which may bring into question passenger safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction and create a perception that cruising is more dangerous than other vacation alternatives. incidents involving cruise ships, adverse media publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry or unusual weather patterns or natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes, could impact demand and consequently have an adverse impact on our results of operations and on future industry performance. 22 environmental, health and safety, financial responsibility and other maritime regulations could affect operations and increase operating costs. the united states and various state and foreign government or regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations or policies, such as requiring the use of low sulfur fuels, increasing fuel efficiency requirements or further restricting emissions that could increase our cost for fuel and adversely impact the cruise vacation industry. an increase in fuel prices not only impacts our fuel costs, but also some of our other expenses, such as crew travel, freight and commodity prices. in addition, initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions have been introduced or are being considered in several european countries, and numerous bills related to climate change have been introduced in the united states. although not all are likely to become law, it is apparent that future legislation related to climate change could likely impact all businesses including the cruise industry and adversely impact our costs. some environmental groups have also lobbied for more stringent regulation of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise vacation industry and its environmental impact. in addition, we are subject to various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties that govern, among other things, safety standards applicable to our ships, health and sanitary standards applicable to our passengers, security standards on board our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities to our passengers. these issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. this could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that would subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. conducting business internationally may result in increased costs and other risks. we operate our business internationally and plan to continue to develop our international presence. operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks. examples include unstable local political or economic conditions and risk of increases in duties and taxes as well as changes in laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses, or governing the operations of foreign-based companies. additional risks include currency fluctuations, interest rate movements, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings. if we are unable to address these risks adequately, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected. we have ship construction contracts which are denominated in euros. while we have entered into euro-denominated forward contracts to manage a portion of the currency risk associated with these ship construction contracts, we are exposed to fluctuations in the euro exchange rate for the portion of the ship construction contracts that has not been hedged. if the shipyard is unable to perform under the related ship construction contract, any foreign currency hedges that were entered into to manage the currency risk would need to be terminated. termination of these contracts could result in a significant loss. our attempts to expand our business into new markets may not be successful. historically our focus has been to serve the north american cruise market, which continues to be our primary source of cruise passengers. we have expanded our focus to increase our international passenger sourcing, most recently, in the brazilian, asian and australian markets. expansion into new markets requires significant levels of investment. there can be no assurance that these markets will develop as anticipated or that we will have success in these markets, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. ship construction delays or mechanical faults may result in cancellation of cruises or unscheduled drydocks and repairs and thus adversely affect our results of operations. we depend on shipyards to construct and deliver our cruise ships on a timely basis and in good working order. the sophisticated nature of building a ship involves risks. delays or mechanical faults in ship construction have in the past and may in the future result in delays or cancellation of cruises or necessitate unscheduled drydocks and repairs of ships. we have, for example, experienced mechanical problems with the pod propulsion units on certain ships and there can be no assurance that we will not experience such problems in the future. these events and any related adverse publicity could result in lost revenue, increased operating expenses, or both, and thus adversely affect our results of operations. 23 the current worldwide economic environment is resulting in financial difficulties for shipyards and their subcontractors. this may cause or result in delivery delays, ship cancellations or increases in shipbuilding costs that could adversely affect our results of operations. the current worldwide economic environment is causing a loss of business for shipyards and their subcontractors which could result in financial difficulties, liquidations or closures. these events could adversely affect the timely delivery or costs of new ships or the ability of shipyards to repair and refurbish our existing fleet in accordance with our needs or expectations. delivery delays and cancelled deliveries can adversely affect our results of operations, as can any constraints on our ability to repair and maintain our ships on a timely basis. our operating costs and taxes could increase due to market forces and economic or geo- political factors beyond our control. our operating costs, including fuel, food, payroll, airfare for our shipboard personnel, insurance and security costs are subject to increases due to market forces and economic or political instability or other factors beyond our control. increases in these operating costs could adversely affect our profitability. in addition, the recent volatility in the price of fuel is making our ability to predict fuel prices extremely difficult. united states, state and local authorities as well as foreign authorities periodically consider increases in taxes. any such tax increases could also cause an increase in our costs. unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our results of operations . we believe that port destinations are a major reason why passengers choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. the availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, existing capacity constraints, security concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, local governmental regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists. any limitations on the availability of our ports of call or on the availability of shore excursion and other service providers at such ports could adversely affect our results of operations. price increases for commercial airline service for our passengers or major changes or reduction in commercial airline service could adversely impact the demand for cruises and undermine our ability to provide reasonably priced vacation packages to our passengers. many of our passengers depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to or from the ports where our cruises embark or disembark. increases in the price of airfare would increase the overall price of the cruise vacation to our passengers which may adversely impact demand for our cruises. in addition, changes in the availability of commercial airline services could adversely affect our passenger ability to obtain airfare as well as our ability to fly our passengers to or from our cruise ships which could adversely affect our results of operations. changes or disruptions to the travel agency industry could adversely affect our results of operations. we rely on travel agencies to generate the majority of bookings for our ships. if the current economic environment continues for an extended period of time or worsens, these agencies could be adversely impacted and significant disruptions or contractions could occur to these businesses. this could reduce the number of travel agencies available for us to market and sell our cruises. if these events were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. a disruption in our shoreside business may adversely affect our results of operations. our principal executive office and shoreside operations are located at the port of miami, florida and we have large call centers for reservations in springfield, oregon, wichita, kansas and addlestone, england. although we have developed disaster recovery and similar contingency plans, actual or threatened natural disasters (i.e. hurricanes, earthquakes, tornados, fires, floods), information systems failure or similar events in these locations may have a material impact to our business continuity and results of operations. further, we do not carry business interruption insurance for the majority of our shoreside operations. as such, any losses or damages incurred by us could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. 24 failure to develop the value of our brands and differentiate our products could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends on the strength and continued development of our cruise brands and on the effectiveness of our brand strategies. our brands have the ability to expand and target the markets in which they operate which is critical to increasing our customer base. failure to protect and differentiate our brands from competitors throughout the vacation market could adversely affect our results of operations. the loss of key personnel, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel or disruptions among our shipboard personnel due to strained collective bargaining relationships could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends, in large part, on the skills and contributions of key executives and other employees, and on our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees. we must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficient to maintain our current business and support our projected growth. furthermore, as of december 31, 2009, 80% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. a dispute under our collective bargaining agreements could result in a work stoppage of those employees covered by the agreements. a loss of key employees or disruptions among our shipboard personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. a change in our tax status under the united states internal revenue code, or other jurisdictions, may have adverse effects on our income . we and a number of our subsidiaries are foreign corporations that derive income from a united states trade or business and/or from sources within the united states. drinker biddle &amp; reath llp, our united states tax counsel, has delivered to us an opinion, based on certain representations and assumptions set forth in it, to the effect that this income, to the extent derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, is exempt from united states federal income tax pursuant to section 883 of the internal revenue code. we believe that most of our income (including that of our subsidiaries) is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships. it should also be noted that the provisions of section 883 are subject to change at any time by legislation. moreover, changes could occur in the future with respect to the identity, residence or holdings of our direct or indirect shareholders, or relevant foreign tax laws, that could affect our eligibility for the section 883 exemption. accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be exempt from united states income tax on united states source shipping income in the future. if we were not entitled to the benefit of section 883, we and our subsidiaries would be subject to united states taxation on a portion of the income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships, which would reduce our net income. see taxation of the company above for a discussion of such taxation in the absence of an exemption under section 883. finally, changes in the income tax laws affecting our operations in malta, spain, the united kingdom or elsewhere could result in higher income taxes being charged against our operations, resulting in lower net income. we are controlled by principal shareholders that have the power to determine our policies, management and actions requiring shareholder approval. as of february 12, 2010, a. wilhelmsen as., a norwegian corporation indirectly owned by members of the wilhelmsen family of norway, owned approximately 20.1% of our common stock and cruise associates, a bahamian general partnership indirectly owned by various trusts primarily for the benefit of certain members of the pritzker family and a trust primarily for the benefit of certain members of the ofer family, owned approximately 15.5% of our common stock. a sale of shares by a. wilhelmsen as. or cruise associates could cause a drop in our share prices. a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates are parties to a shareholders agreement which provides that they will each vote their shares for the election of four nominees of a. wilhelmsen as., four nominees of cruise associates and our chief executive officer. our articles of incorporation require that during the term of the shareholders agreement the approval of at least one director nominated by a. wilhelmsen as. and one director nominated by cruise associates is required for certain corporate actions. as such, a. wilhelmsen as and cruise associates have the power to determine, among other things our policies, the persons who will be our officers, and actions requiring shareholder approval. 25 a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates are not prohibited from engaging in a business that may compete with our business, subject to certain exceptions. if any person other than a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates acquires ownership of more than 30% of our common stock and our two principal shareholders, in the aggregate, own less of our common stock than such person and do not collectively have the right to elect, or to designate for election, at least a majority of the board of directors, we may be obligated to prepay indebtedness outstanding under the majority of our credit facilities, which we may be unable to replace on similar terms. if this were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our liquidity and operations. we are not a united states corporation and our shareholders may be subject to the uncertainties of a foreign legal system in protecting their interests. our corporate affairs are governed by our restated articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the business corporation act of liberia. the provisions of the business corporation act of liberia resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the united states. however, while most states have a fairly well developed body of case law interpreting their respective corporate statutes, there are very few judicial cases in liberia interpreting the business corporation act of liberia. as such, the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under liberian law are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain united states jurisdictions. for example, the right of shareholders to bring a derivative action in liberian courts may be more limited than in united states jurisdictions. there may also be practical difficulties for shareholders attempting to bring suit in liberia and liberian courts may or may not recognize and enforce foreign judgments. thus, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests with respect to actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a united states jurisdiction. litigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and/or damage our reputation. our business is subject to various united states and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. in addition, improper conduct by our employees or agents could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. in certain circumstances it may not be economical to defend against such matters and/or a legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments and other general we are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and fuel prices. we manage these risks through a combination of our normal operating and financing activities and through the use of derivative financial instruments pursuant to our hedging practices and policies. the financial impacts of these hedging instruments are primarily offset by corresponding changes in the underlying exposures being hedged. we achieve this by closely matching the amount, term and conditions of the derivative instrument with the underlying risk being hedged. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. we monitor our derivative positions using techniques including market valuations and sensitivity analyses. (see note 13. fair value measurements and derivative instruments to our consolidated financial statements underrisk factors 22 risk factors the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k are important factors that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historical results. it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks. the risks described below are only those known risks relating to our operations and financial condition that we consider material. there may be additional risks that we consider not to be material, or which are not known, and any of these risks could have the effects set forth below. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for a cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements. adverse worldwide economic conditions could reduce the demand for cruises and adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. the demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic and business conditions and is sensitive to reductions in discretionary consumer spending. the recent severe economic downturn coupled with continued negative economic indicators, including high unemployment rates, the volatility in the price of fuel and declines in the securities, real estate and other markets, has had an adverse effect on vacationers discretionary income and consumer confidence. this, in turn, has resulted in cruise booking slowdowns, decreased cruise prices and lower onboard revenues for us and for the others in the cruise industry. although the cruise industry began to recover in 2010, we cannot 22 table of contents predict with any certainty whether demand for cruises will continue to improve or the rate of such improvement. stagnant or worsening global economic conditions could result in a prolonged period of booking slowdowns, depressed cruise prices and reduced onboard revenues. this could adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition including the impairment of the value of our ships, goodwill and other assets. we may not be able to obtain sufficient financing or capital for our needs or may not be able to do so on terms that are acceptable or consistent with our expectations. to fund our capital expenditures and scheduled debt payments, we have historically relied on a combination of cash flows provided by operations, drawdowns under available credit facilities, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the sale of equity or debt securities in private or public securities markets. the decrease in consumer cruise spending as a result of the recent severe economic downturn had an adverse impact on our cash flows from operations and if the current economic conditions worsen our operational cash flows could continue to be negatively affected. see adverse worldwide economic conditions could reduce the demand for cruises and adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. although we believe we have or can access sufficient liquidity to fund our operations and obligations as expected, there can be no assurances to that effect. our ability to timely refinance and/or replace our credit facilities on acceptable terms and our ability to access additional funding, as may be needed, will depend upon continued and sustained improvements in the financial markets as well as our financial results and credit ratings and the performance of our industry in general. in addition, our ability to make draws under our revolving credit facilities is subject to the absence of any material adverse changes in our business. our inability to satisfy the covenants required by our credit facilities would adversely impact our liquidity. our debt agreements contain covenants, including covenants restricting our ability to take certain actions and financial covenants that require us to maintain minimum net worth and fixed charge coverage ratios and limit our net debt-to-capital ratio. our ability to comply with the terms of our outstanding facilities may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions and other events, some of which may be beyond our control. our failure to comply with the terms of our debt facilities could result in an event of default. generally, if an event of default under any debt agreement occurs, then pursuant to cross default acceleration clauses, substantially all of our outstanding debt and derivative contract payables could become due and/or terminated. we cannot provide assurances that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay or refinance the borrowings under any of the credit facilities or settle our outstanding derivative contracts if such amounts were accelerated upon an event of default. in addition, we have agreements with a number of credit card companies and processors that accept credit cards for the sale of cruises and other services. under certain of these agreements, the credit card processor may hold back a reserve from our credit card receivables following the occurrence of certain events, including a default under our major credit facilities. as of december 31, 2010, we were not required to maintain any reserve under such agreements. if circumstances were to occur that would allow a credit card processor to require us to maintain a reserve, our liquidity would be negatively impacted. the impact of disruptions in the global financial markets may affect the ability of our counterparties and others to perform their obligations to us. the recent severe economic downturn, including failures of financial service companies and the related liquidity crisis, disrupted the capital and credit markets. a recurrence of these disruptions could cause our counterparties and others to breach their obligations to us under our contracts with them. this could include failures of banks or other financial service companies to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements or to pay us amounts that may become due under our derivative contracts for hedging of fuel prices, interest rates and foreign currencies or other agreements. if this occurs it may have a negative impact on our cash flows including our ability to meet our obligations, results of operations and financial condition. 23 table of contents the increase in capacity resulting from delivery of newbuilds currently on order within the cruise industry could further adversely impact the demand for cruises or cruise pricing. a total of 20 new ships are on order for delivery through 2014 in the cruise industry, two of which are ours. the further growth in capacity from these new ships, without an increase in the cruise industry share of the vacation market, could depress cruise prices and compound our ability to achieve yield improvement. if we are unable to appropriately balance our cost management strategy with our goal of satisfying guest expectations it may adversely impact our business success. our goals are to provide high quality products and deliver high quality services. there can be no assurances that we can successfully balance these goals with our cost containment strategy. we may lose business to competitors throughout the vacation market . we operate in the vacation market and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. we therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators, which provide other leisure options including hotels, resorts and package holidays and tours. we face significant competition from other cruise lines on the basis of cruise pricing, travel agent preference and also in terms of the nature of ships and services we offer to guests. our principal competitors within the cruise vacation industry include carnival corporation &amp; plc, which owns, among others, aida cruises, carnival cruise lines, costa cruises, cunard line, holland america line, iberocruceros, p&amp;o cruises and princess cruises; disney cruise line; msc cruises; norwegian cruise line and oceania cruises. in the event that we do not compete effectively with other vacation alternatives and cruise companies, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. fears of terrorist and pirate attacks, war, and other hostilities and the spread of contagious diseases could have a negative impact on our results of operations. events such as terrorist and pirate attacks, war, and other hostilities and the resulting political instability, travel restrictions, the spread of contagious diseases and concerns over safety, health and security aspects of traveling or the fear of any of the foregoing have had, and could have in the future, a significant adverse impact on demand and pricing in the travel and vacation industry. these events could also impact our ability to source qualified crew from throughout the world at competitive costs and, therefore, increase our shipboard employee costs. incidents or adverse publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry, unusual weather conditions and other natural disasters or disruptions could affect our reputation and harm our future sales and results of operations. the operation of cruise ships involves the risk of accidents, illnesses and other incidents which may bring into question guest safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction and create a perception that cruising is more dangerous than other vacation alternatives. incidents involving cruise ships, and, in particular our cruise ships, adverse media publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry or unusual weather patterns or natural disasters or disruptions, such as hurricanes and earthquakes, could impact demand for our cruises. in addition, any events which impact the travel industry more generally may negatively impact our ability to deliver guests to our cruises and/or interrupt our ability to obtain services and goods from key vendors in our supply chain. any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and on future industry performance. 24 table of contents environmental, labor, health and safety, financial responsibility and other maritime regulations could affect operations and increase operating costs. the united states and various state and foreign government or regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations or policies, such as requiring the use of low sulfur fuels, increasing fuel efficiency requirements or further restricting emissions that could increase our cost for fuel and adversely impact the cruise vacation industry. see item 1. business regulation environmental regulations. an increase in fuel prices not only impacts our fuel costs, but also some of our other expenses, such as crew travel, freight and commodity prices. in addition, initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions have been introduced or are being considered in several european countries, and, beginning in january 2011, the u.s. environmental protection agency began regulating the carbon emissions of companies operating in the united states. although not all initiatives are likely to be implemented, it is apparent that future legislation and regulations related to climate change could impact the cruise industry and adversely impact our costs. some environmental groups have also lobbied for more stringent regulation of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise vacation industry and its environmental impact. with regards to labor, we anticipate that the new standards set forth in the maritime labour convention when ratified and effective (which we currently believe may occur in 2011 and 2012, respectively) will likely result in increased costs associated with our onboard employees. see item 1. business regulation labor regulations. while we have been actively seeking ways to mitigate the potential impact on our business, there can be no assurances that our efforts will be successful or that our financial results of operations will not be materially impacted. in addition, we are subject to various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties that govern, among other things, safety standards applicable to our ships, treatment of disabled persons, health and sanitary standards applicable to our guests, security standards on board our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities to our guests. these issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world. this could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that would subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. conducting business internationally may result in increased costs and other risks. we operate our business internationally and plan to continue to develop our international presence. operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including unstable local economic conditions. certain countries have been more severely impacted by the recent economic downturn than other economies around the world where we do business including, for example, spain where we operate our pullmantur brand. other risks attendant to operating internationally include volatile local political conditions, potential increases in duties and taxes, changes in laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses or governing the operations of foreign-based companies, currency fluctuations, interest rate movements, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings. if we are unable to address these risks adequately, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected, including the impairment of the value of our ships, goodwill and other assets. operating internationally exposes us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements. in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business communities might not conform to international business standards. we may not be successful in ensuring that our employees and other representatives stationed throughout the world properly adhere to our policies or applicable laws or regulations. failure to adhere to our policies or applicable laws or regulations could result in penalties, sanctions, damage to our reputation and related costs which in turn could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. we have ship construction contracts which are denominated in euros. while we have entered into euro-denominated forward contracts to manage a portion of the currency risk associated with these ship construction contracts, we are exposed to fluctuations in the euro exchange rate for the portion of the ship construction contracts that has not been hedged. if the shipyard is unable to perform under the related ship construction contract, any foreign currency hedges that were entered into to manage the currency risk would need to be terminated. termination of these contracts could result in a significant loss. our attempts to expand our business into new markets may not be successful. historically our focus has been to serve the north american cruise market, which continues to be our primary source of cruise passengers. we have expanded our focus to increase our international passenger sourcing, most recently, in the brazilian, asian and australian markets. expansion into new markets requires significant levels of investment. there can be no assurance that these markets will develop as anticipated or that we will have success in these markets, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 table of contents ship construction, repair or refurbishment delays or mechanical faults may result in cancellation of cruises or unscheduled drydocks and repairs and thus adversely affect our results of operations. we depend on shipyards to construct and deliver our cruise ships on a timely basis and in good working order. the sophisticated nature of building a ship involves risks. delays or mechanical faults in ship construction have in the past and may in the future result in delays or cancellation of cruises or necessitate unscheduled drydocks and repairs of ships. we have, for example, experienced mechanical problems with the pod propulsion units on certain ships and there can be no assurance that we will not experience such problems in the future. these events and any related adverse publicity could result in lost revenue, increased operating expenses, or both, and thus adversely affect our results of operations. shipyards and their subcontractors may experience financial difficulties which could cause or result in delay, ship cancellations or increases in shipbuilding costs that could adversely affect our results of operations. we rely on shipyards to construct, repair and refurbish our vessels. financial difficulties, liquidations or closures suffered by these shipyards and/or their subcontractors may impact the timely delivery or costs of new ships or the ability of shipyards to repair and refurbish our existing fleet in accordance with our needs or expectations. delivery delays and cancelled deliveries can adversely affect our results of operations, as can any constraints on our ability to repair and maintain our ships on a timely basis. our operating costs, especially fuel expenditures, could increase due to market forces and economic or geo- political factors beyond our control. expenditures for fuel represent a significant cost of operating our business. if fuel prices rise significantly in a short period of time, we may be unable to increase fares or other fees sufficiently to offset fully our increased fuel costs. we routinely hedge a portion of our future fuel requirements to protect against rising fuel costs. however, there can be no assurance that our hedge contracts will provide a sufficient level of protection against increased fuel costs or that our counterparties will be able to perform under our hedge contracts, such as in the case of a counterparty bankruptcy. further volatility in fuel prices or disruptions in fuel supplies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. our other operating costs, including food, payroll, airfare for our shipboard personnel, taxes, insurance and security costs are all subject to increases due to market forces and economic or political conditions or other factors beyond our control. increases in these operating costs could adversely affect our profitability. unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our results of operations . we believe that port destinations are a major reason why passengers choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. the availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, existing capacity constraints, security concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, local governmental regulations and local community concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists. any limitations on the availability of our ports of call or on the availability of shore excursion and other service providers at such ports could adversely affect our results of operations. 26 table of contents price increases for commercial airline service for our guests or major changes or reduction in commercial airline service could adversely impact the demand for cruises and undermine our ability to provide reasonably priced vacation packages to our guests. many of our guests depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to or from the ports where our cruises embark or disembark. increases in the price of airfare would increase the overall price of the cruise vacation to our guests which may adversely impact demand for our cruises. in addition, changes in the availability of commercial airline services could adversely affect our guest ability to obtain airfare as well as our ability to fly our guests to or from our cruise ships which could adversely affect our results of operations. our reliance on travel agencies to sell and market our cruises exposes us to certain risks which, if realized, could adversely impact our business. because we rely on travel agencies to generate the majority of bookings for our ships, we must ensure that our commission rates and incentive structures remain competitive. if we fail to offer competitive compensation packages, these agencies may be incentivized to sell cruises offered by our competitors to our detriment, which could adversely impact our operating results. in addition, the travel agent industry is sensitive to economic conditions that impact discretionary income. significant disruptions or contractions in the industry could reduce the number of travel agencies available for us to market and sell our cruises, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. a disruption in our shoreside business may adversely affect our results of operations. our principal executive office and shoreside operations are located at the port of miami, florida and we have call centers for reservations throughout the world. although we have developed disaster recovery and similar contingency plans, actual or threatened natural disasters (e.g. hurricanes, earthquakes, tornados, fires, floods), substantial or repeated information systems failures, computer viruses and hackers or similar events in these locations may have a material impact to our business continuity and results of operations. further, we do not carry business interruption insurance for the majority of our shoreside operations. as such, any losses or damages incurred by us could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. failure to develop the value of our brands and differentiate our products could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends on the strength and continued development of our cruise brands and on the effectiveness of our brand strategies. failure to protect and differentiate our brands from competitors throughout the vacation market could adversely affect our results of operations. the loss of key personnel, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel or disruptions among our shipboard personnel due to strained employee relations could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends, in large part, on the skills and contributions of key executives and other employees, and on our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees. we must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficient to maintain our current business and support our projected growth. furthermore, as of december 31, 2010, 80% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. a dispute under our collective bargaining agreements could result in a work stoppage of those employees covered by the agreements. a loss of key employees or disruptions among our shipboard personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. 27 table of contents business activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may subject us to additional risks. partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties, such as our joint venture to operate tui cruises, generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. in addition, actions by another investor may present additional risks of operational difficulties. we may not realize the intended benefits of our technological investments. as part of our strategic focus, we intend to invest resources into technology that will be complementary to our business. technology development can require a significant amount of management time and financial resources and is subject to integration and implementation challenges, rapid change, short life cycles and obsolescence. there can be no assurances that the resources we invest will be sufficient to materially improve the guest experience or customer satisfaction with our company. accordingly, there can be no assurances that these investments will generate positive returns. a change in our tax status under the united states internal revenue code, or other jurisdictions, may have adverse effects on our income . we and a number of our subsidiaries are foreign corporations that derive income from a united states trade or business and/or from sources within the united states. drinker biddle &amp; reath llp, our united states tax counsel, has delivered to us an opinion, based on certain representations and assumptions set forth in it, to the effect that this income, to the extent derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, is exempt from united states federal income tax pursuant to section 883 of the internal revenue code. we believe that most of our income (including that of our subsidiaries) is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships. the provisions of section 883 are subject to change at any time by legislation. moreover, changes could occur in the future with respect to the identity, residence or holdings of our direct or indirect shareholders, or relevant foreign tax laws, that could affect our eligibility for the section 883 exemption. accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be exempt from united states income tax on united states source shipping income in the future. if we were not entitled to the benefit of section 883, we and our subsidiaries would be subject to united states taxation on a portion of the income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships, which would reduce our net income. see item 1. business taxation of the company for a discussion of such taxation in the absence of an exemption under section 883. as part of our growth strategy, we have recently expanded our presence within the u.k. tonnage tax regime and maintained our participation in various other international tonnage tax regimes. see item 1. business taxation of the company. to the extent the tonnage tax laws change or we do not continue to meet the applicable requirements, we may be required to pay higher income tax in these jurisdictions, resulting in lower net income. as budgetary constraints continue to adversely impact the jurisdictions in which we operate, increases in income tax regulations affecting our operations may be imposed. we are controlled by principal shareholders that have the power to determine our policies, management and actions requiring shareholder approval. as of february 14, 2011, a. wilhelmsen as., a norwegian corporation indirectly owned by members of the wilhelmsen family of norway, owned approximately 19.4% of our common stock and cruise associates, a bahamian general partnership indirectly owned by various trusts primarily for the benefit of certain members of the pritzker family and a trust primarily for the benefit of certain members of the ofer family, owned approximately 15.4% of our common stock. a significant sale of shares by a. wilhelmsen as. or cruise associates, or a perception that either may sell a material amount of shares, could cause a drop in our share prices. 28 table of contents a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates are parties to a shareholders agreement which provides that they will each vote their shares for the election of four nominees of a. wilhelmsen as., four nominees of cruise associates and our chief executive officer. our articles of incorporation require that during the term of the shareholders agreement the approval of at least one director affiliated with a. wilhelmsen as. and one director affiliated with cruise associates is required for certain corporate actions. as such, a. wilhelmsen as and cruise associates or either of them have the power to determine, among other things, certain of our policies, the persons who will be our officers, and actions requiring shareholder approval. a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates are not prohibited from engaging in a business that may compete with our business, subject to certain exceptions. if any person other than a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates acquires ownership of more than 30% of our common stock and our two principal shareholders, in the aggregate, own less of our common stock than such person and do not collectively have the right to elect, or to designate for election, at least a majority of the board of directors, we may be obligated to prepay indebtedness outstanding under the majority of our credit facilities, which we may be unable to replace on similar terms. if this were to occur, it could have an adverse impact on our liquidity and operations. we are not a united states corporation and our shareholders may be subject to the uncertainties of a foreign legal system in protecting their interests. our corporate affairs are governed by our restated articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the business corporation act of liberia. the provisions of the business corporation act of liberia resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the united states. however, while most states have a fairly well developed body of case law interpreting their respective corporate statutes, there are very few judicial cases in liberia interpreting the business corporation act of liberia. as such, the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under liberian law are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain united states jurisdictions. for example, the right of shareholders to bring a derivative action in liberian courts may be more limited than in united states jurisdictions. there may also be practical difficulties for shareholders attempting to bring suit in liberia and liberian courts may or may not recognize and enforce foreign judgments. thus, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests with respect to actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a united states jurisdiction. litigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and/or damage our reputation. our business is subject to various united states and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. in addition, improper conduct by our employees or agents could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. in certain circumstances it may not be economical to defend against such matters and/or a legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and liberian law could inhibit others from acquiring us, prevent a change of control, and may prevent efforts by our shareholders to change our management. certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and liberian law may inhibit third parties from effectuating a change of control of the company without board approval which could result in the entrenchment of current management. these include provisions in our articles of incorporation that prevent third parties, other than a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates, from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of our outstanding shares without the consent of our board of directors. 29 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments and other general we are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and fuel prices. we manage these risks through a combination of our normal operating and financing activities and through the use of derivative financial instruments pursuant to our hedging policies and procedures. the financial impacts of these hedging instruments are primarily offset by corresponding changes in the underlying exposures being hedged. we achieve this by closely matching the amount, term and conditions of the derivative instrument with the underlying risk being hedged. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. we monitor our derivative positions using techniques including market valuations and sensitivity analyses. (see note 13. fair value measurements and derivative instruments to our consolidated financial statements underrisk factors 24 risk factors the risk factors set forth below and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k are important factors that could cause actual results to differ from expected or historical results. it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks. the risks described below are only those known risks relating to our operations and financial condition that we consider material. there may be additional risks that we consider not to be material, or which are not known, and any of these risks could have the effects set forth below. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for a cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements. adverse worldwide economic, geopolitical or other conditions could reduce the demand for cruises and adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition including potentially impairing the value of our ships, goodwill and other assets. the demand for cruises is affected by international, national and local economic and geopolitical conditions. the recent severe economic downturn coupled with continued uncertainty as to the future global economic landscape has had and continues to have an adverse effect on vacationers discretionary income and consumer confidence. this, in turn, has resulted in cruise booking slowdowns, decreased cruise prices and lower onboard revenues for us and for the others in the cruise industry as compared to more robust economic times. although the cruise industry continued to recover in 2011, recovery has been slow and has been hindered by the ongoing economic instability, including heightened concerns regarding european economies. in addition, certain countries have been more severely impacted by the recent economic downturn than other economies around the world where we do business including, for example, spain where we operate our pullmantur brand. we cannot predict with any certainty whether demand for cruises will continue to improve or the rate of such improvement. stagnant or worsening global economic conditions could result in a prolonged period of booking slowdowns, depressed cruise prices and reduced onboard revenues. demand for our cruises is also influenced by geopolitical events in the markets in which we operate. unfavorable conditions, such as civil unrest and governmental changes, especially in regions with popular ports of call, can undermine consumer demand and/or pricing for itineraries featuring these ports. for example, the ongoing political instability in the eastern mediterranean and northern africa and its spillover effects in surrounding areas negatively impacted our results of operations in 2011. continued unrest and economic instability in this or other regions we do business could materially adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition including potentially impairing the value of our ships, goodwill and other assets. we may not be able to obtain sufficient financing or capital for our needs or may not be able to do so on terms that are acceptable or consistent with our expectations. to fund our capital expenditures and scheduled debt payments, we have historically relied on a combination of cash flows provided by operations, drawdowns under available credit facilities, the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the sale of equity or debt securities in private or public securities markets. the decrease in consumer cruise spending as a result of the recent severe economic downturn had an adverse impact on our cash flows from operations and if the current economic conditions worsen our operational cash flows could continue to be negatively affected. see adverse worldwide economic and geopolitical conditions could reduce the demand for cruises and adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. 24 table of contents although we believe we have or can access sufficient liquidity to fund our operations and obligations as expected, there can be no assurances to that effect. our ability to timely refinance and/or replace our outstanding debt securities and credit facilities on acceptable terms, our cost of funding and our ability to access additional funding, as may be needed, will depend upon numerous factors including but not limited to the vibrancy of the financial markets, our financial performance and credit ratings and the performance of our industry in general. our inability to satisfy the covenants required by our credit facilities could adversely impact our liquidity. our debt agreements contain covenants, including covenants restricting our ability to take certain actions and financial covenants that require us to maintain minimum net worth and fixed charge coverage ratios and limit our net debt-to-capital ratio. our ability to comply with the terms of our outstanding facilities may be affected by general economic conditions, industry conditions and other events, some of which may be beyond our control. in addition, our ability to make draws under our revolving credit facilities is subject to the absence of material adverse changes in our business. our ability to maintain our credit facilities may also be impacted by changes in our ownership base. more specifically, we may be required to prepay a majority of our debt facilities if (i) any person other than a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates and their respective affiliates (the applicable group ) acquires ownership of more than 30% of our common stock and the applicable group owns less of our common stock than such person or (ii) subject to certain exceptions, during any 24-month period, a majority of the board is no longer comprised of individuals who were members of the board on the first day of such period. certain of our outstanding debt securities also contain change of control provisions that would be triggered by the acquisition of greater than 50% of our common stock by a person other than a member of the applicable group coupled with a ratings downgrade. our failure to comply with the terms of our debt facilities could result in an event of default. generally, if an event of default under any debt agreement occurs, then pursuant to cross default acceleration clauses, our outstanding debt and derivative contract payables could become due and/or terminated. we cannot provide assurances that we would have sufficient liquidity to repay or refinance the borrowings under any of the credit facilities or settle other outstanding contracts if such amounts were accelerated upon an event of default. in addition, under several of our agreements with credit card processors that accept credit cards for the sale of cruises and other services, the credit card processor may hold back a reserve from our credit card receivables following the occurrence of certain events, including a default under our major credit facilities. as of december 31, 2011, we were not required to maintain any reserve under such agreements. incidents or adverse publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry, unusual weather conditions and other natural disasters or disruptions could affect our reputation as well as impact our sales and results of operations. the operation of cruise ships, airplanes, land tours, port facilities and shore excursions involves the risk of accidents, illnesses, environmental incidents and other incidents which may bring into question guest safety, health, security and vacation satisfaction which could negatively impact our reputation. incidents involving cruise ships, and, in particular the safety and security of guests and crew, such as the recent grounding of the costa concordia, media coverage thereof, as well as adverse media publicity concerning the cruise vacation industry or unusual weather patterns or natural disasters or disruptions, such as hurricanes and earthquakes, and the collateral impact thereof could impact demand for our cruises. the considerable expansion in the use of social media over recent years has compounded the potential scope of the negative publicity that could be generated by those incidents. if any such incident occurs in a region during a time of high seasonal demand, the effect could disproportionately impact our results of operations for the year. in addition, any events which impact the travel industry more generally may negatively impact our ability to deliver guests to our cruises and/or interrupt our ability to obtain services and goods from key vendors in our supply chain. any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and on industry performance. the impact of disruptions in the global financial markets may affect the ability of our counterparties and others to perform their obligations to us. the recent severe economic downturn, including failures of financial service companies and the related liquidity crisis, disrupted the capital and credit markets and additional economic concerns from some of the countries in the european 25 table of contents union continue to strain the financial markets both in the us and internationally. a recurrence of these disruptions could cause our counterparties and others to breach their obligations to us under our contracts with them. this could include failures of banks or other financial service companies to fund required borrowings under our loan agreements or to pay us amounts that may become due under our derivative contracts for hedging of fuel prices, interest rates and foreign currencies or other agreements. if any of the foregoing occurs it may have a negative impact on our cash flows including our ability to meet our obligations, results of operations and financial condition. an increase in capacity worldwide or excess capacity in a particular market could adversely impact our cruise sales and/or pricing. although our ships can be redeployed, cruise sales and/or pricing may be impacted both by the introduction of new ships into the marketplace and by deployment decisions of ourselves and our competitors. a total of 20 new ships with approximately 62,000 berths are on order for delivery through 2016 in the cruise industry. the further growth in capacity from these new ships and future orders, without an increase in the cruise industry share of the vacation market, could depress cruise prices and impede our ability to achieve yield improvement. in addition, to the extent that we or our competitors deploy ships to a particular itinerary and the resulting capacity in that region exceeds the demand, we may lower pricing and profitability may be lower than anticipated. any of the foregoing could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition including potentially impairing the value of our ships, goodwill and other assets. if we are unable to appropriately balance our cost management strategy with our goal of satisfying guest expectations it may adversely impact our business success. our goals are to provide high quality products and deliver high quality services. there can be no assurances that we can successfully balance these goals with our cost containment efforts. we may lose business to competitors throughout the vacation market . we operate in the vacation market and cruising is one of many alternatives for people choosing a vacation. we therefore risk losing business not only to other cruise lines, but also to other vacation operators, which provide other leisure options including hotels, resorts and package holidays and tours. we face significant competition from other cruise lines on the basis of cruise pricing, travel agent preference and also in terms of the nature of ships and services we offer to guests. our principal competitors within the cruise vacation industry include carnival corporation &amp; plc, which owns, among others, aida cruises, carnival cruise lines, costa cruises, cunard line, holland america line, iberocruceros, p&amp;o cruises and princess cruises; disney cruise line; msc cruises; norwegian cruise line and oceania cruises. in the event that we do not compete effectively with other vacation alternatives and cruise companies, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. fears of terrorist and pirate attacks, war, and other hostilities and the spread of contagious diseases could have a negative impact on our results of operations. events such as terrorist and pirate attacks, war, and other hostilities and the resulting political instability, travel restrictions, the spread of contagious diseases and concerns over safety, health and security aspects of traveling or the fear of any of the foregoing have had, and could have in the future, a significant adverse impact on demand and pricing in the travel and vacation industry. as we continue to expand internationally, we become susceptible to a wider range of adverse events. these events could also impact our ability to source qualified crew from throughout the world at competitive costs and, therefore, increase our shipboard employee costs. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our financial results. we earn revenues, pay expenses, recognize assets and incur liabilities in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including, among others, the euro, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar, the australia dollar and the brazilian 26 table of contents real. in 2011, we derived approximately 49% of revenues from operations outside the united states. because our consolidated financial statements are presented in u.s. dollars, we must convert revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into u.s. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. therefore, absent offsetting changes in other foreign currencies, increases or decreases in the value of the u.s. dollar against other major currencies will affect our revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. we use derivative financial instruments to mitigate our net exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations. however, there can be no assurances that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against major currencies, would not materially affect our financial results. in addition, we have ship construction contracts which are denominated in euros. while we have entered into euro-denominated forward contracts to manage a portion of the currency risk associated with these ship construction contracts, we are exposed to fluctuations in the euro exchange rate for the portion of the ship construction contracts that has not been hedged. additionally, if the shipyard is unable to perform under the related ship construction contract, any foreign currency hedges that were entered into to manage the currency risk would need to be terminated. termination of these contracts could result in a significant loss. environmental, labor, health and safety, financial responsibility and other maritime regulations could affect operations and increase operating costs. the united states and various state and foreign government or regulatory agencies have enacted or are considering new environmental regulations or policies, such as requiring the use of low sulfur fuels, increasing fuel efficiency requirements, further restricting emissions, or other initiatives to limit greenhouse gas emissions that could increase our cost for fuel, cause us to incur significant expenses to purchase and/or develop new equipment and adversely impact the cruise vacation industry. see item 1. business regulation environmental regulations. an increase in fuel prices not only impacts our fuel costs, but also some of our other expenses, such as crew travel, freight and commodity prices. although not all initiatives are likely to be implemented, it is apparent that some future legislation and regulations related to the environment will impact the cruise industry and could adversely impact our costs. some environmental groups have also lobbied for more stringent regulation of cruise ships and have generated negative publicity about the cruise vacation industry and its environmental impact. with regards to labor, we anticipate that the new standards set forth in the maritime labour convention when ratified and effective (which we currently believe may occur in 2012 and 2013, respectively) will likely result in increased costs associated with our onboard employees. see item 1. business regulation labor regulations. while we have been actively seeking ways to mitigate the potential impact on our business, there can be no assurances that our efforts will be successful or that our financial results of operations will not be materially impacted. in addition, we are subject to various international, national, state and local laws, regulations and treaties that govern, among other things, safety standards applicable to our ships, treatment of disabled persons, health and sanitary standards applicable to our guests, security standards on board our ships and at the ship/port interface areas, and financial responsibilities to our guests. these issues are, and we believe will continue to be, an area of focus by the relevant authorities throughout the world, especially in light of the recent grounding of the costa concordia. this could result in the enactment of more stringent regulation of cruise ships that would subject us to increasing compliance costs in the future. conducting business globally may result in increased costs and other risks. we operate our business globally and plan to continue to develop our international presence. operating internationally exposes us to a number of risks, including unstable local economic conditions, volatile local political conditions, potential increases in duties and taxes, required compliance with additional laws and policies affecting cruising, vacation or maritime businesses or governing the operations of foreign-based companies, currency fluctuations, interest rate movements, difficulties in operating under local business environments, u.s. and global anti-bribery laws or regulations, imposition of trade barriers and restrictions on repatriation of earnings. in addition, if a country where we have significant operations or obligations leaves the euro currency system, our financial condition may be adversely impacted. if we are unable to address these risks adequately, our financial position and results of operations could be adversely affected, including potentially impairing the value of our ships, goodwill and other assets. 27 table of contents operating globally also exposes us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements. in many parts of the world, including countries in which we operate, practices in the local business communities might not conform to international business standards. we may not be successful in ensuring that our employees and other representatives stationed throughout the world properly adhere to our policies or applicable laws or regulations. failure to adhere to our policies or applicable laws or regulations could result in penalties, sanctions, damage to our reputation and related costs which in turn could negatively affect our results of operations and cash flow. our attempts to expand our business into new markets may not be successful. while our historical focus has been to serve the north american cruise market, we have expanded our focus to increase our international guest sourcing, most recently, in the brazilian, asian and australian markets. expansion into new markets requires significant levels of investment. there can be no assurance that these markets will develop as anticipated or that we will have success in these markets, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. ship construction, repair or refurbishment delays or mechanical faults may result in cancellation of cruises or unscheduled drydocks and repairs and thus adversely affect our results of operations. we depend on shipyards to construct, repair and refurbish our cruise ships on a timely basis and in good working order. the sophisticated nature of building a ship involves risks. delays or mechanical faults in ship construction or refurbishment have in the past and may in the future result in delays or cancellation of cruises or necessitate unscheduled drydocks and repairs of ships. these events and any related adverse publicity could result in lost revenue, increased operating expenses, or both, and thus adversely affect our results of operations. shipyards and their subcontractors may experience financial difficulties which could cause or result in delay, ship cancellations or increases in shipbuilding costs that could adversely affect our results of operations. we rely on shipyards to construct, repair and refurbish our vessels. financial difficulties, liquidations or closures suffered by these shipyards and/or their subcontractors may impact the timely delivery or costs of new ships or the ability of shipyards to repair and refurbish our existing fleet in accordance with our needs or expectations. delivery delays and cancelled deliveries can adversely affect our results of operations, as can any constraints on our ability to repair and maintain our ships on a timely basis. our operating costs, especially fuel expenditures, could increase due to market forces and economic or geo- political factors beyond our control. expenditures for fuel represent a significant cost of operating our business. if fuel prices rise significantly in a short period of time, we may be unable to increase fares or other fees sufficiently to offset fully our increased fuel costs. we routinely hedge a portion of our future fuel requirements to protect against rising fuel costs. however, there can be no assurance that our hedge contracts will provide a sufficient level of protection against increased fuel costs or that our counterparties will be able to perform under our hedge contracts, such as in the case of a counterparty bankruptcy. further volatility in fuel prices or disruptions in fuel supplies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. our other operating costs, including food, payroll, airfare for our shipboard personnel, taxes, insurance and security costs are all subject to increases due to market forces and economic or political conditions or other factors beyond our control. increases in these operating costs could adversely affect our profitability. unavailability of ports of call may adversely affect our results of operations . we believe that port destinations are a major reason why guests choose to go on a particular cruise or on a cruise vacation. the availability of ports is affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, existing capacity constraints, security concerns, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters, financial limitations on port development, exclusivity arrangements that ports may have with our competitors, local governmental regulations and local community 28 table of contents concerns about port development and other adverse impacts on their communities from additional tourists. any limitations on the availability of our ports of call or on the availability of shore excursion and other service providers at such ports could adversely affect our results of operations. price increases for commercial airline service for our guests or major changes or reduction in commercial airline service could adversely impact the demand for cruises and undermine our ability to provide reasonably priced vacation packages to our guests. many of our guests depend on scheduled commercial airline services to transport them to or from the ports where our cruises embark or disembark. increases in the price of airfare would increase the overall price of the cruise vacation to our guests which may adversely impact demand for our cruises. in addition, changes in the availability of commercial airline services could adversely affect our guests ability to obtain airfare as well as our ability to fly our guests to or from our cruise ships which could adversely affect our results of operations. our reliance on travel agencies to sell and market our cruises exposes us to certain risks which, if realized, could adversely impact our business. because we rely on travel agencies to generate the majority of bookings for our ships, we must ensure that our commission rates and incentive structures remain competitive. if we fail to offer competitive compensation packages, these agencies may be incentivized to sell cruises offered by our competitors to our detriment, which could adversely impact our operating results. in addition, the travel agent industry is sensitive to economic conditions that impact discretionary income. significant disruptions, especially disruptions impacting those agencies that sell a high volume of our business, or contractions in the industry could reduce the number of travel agencies available for us to market and sell our cruises, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. a disruption in our shoreside operations or our information systems may adversely affect our results of operations. our principal executive office and principal shoreside operations are located at the port of miami, florida and we have call centers for reservations throughout the world. although we have developed disaster recovery and similar contingency plans, actual or threatened natural disasters (e.g. hurricanes, earthquakes, tornados, fires, floods) or similar events in these locations may have a material impact on our business continuity, reputation and results of operations. in addition, substantial or repeated information systems failures, computer viruses, cyber-attacks impacting our shoreside or shipboard operations could adversely impact our business. we do not carry business interruption insurance for the majority of our shoreside operations or our information systems. as such, any losses or damages incurred by us could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. failure to develop the value of our brands and differentiate our products could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends on the strength and continued development of our cruise brands and on the effectiveness of our brand strategies. failure to protect and differentiate our brands from competitors throughout the vacation market could adversely affect our results of operations. the loss of key personnel, our inability to recruit or retain qualified personnel or disruptions among our shipboard personnel due to strained employee relations could adversely affect our results of operations. our success depends, in large part, on the skills and contributions of key executives and other employees, and on our ability to recruit and retain high quality employees. we must continue to recruit, retain and motivate management and other employees sufficient to maintain our current business and support our projected growth. furthermore, as of december 31, 2011, 80% of our shipboard employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements. a dispute under our collective bargaining agreements could result in a work stoppage of those employees covered by the agreements. a loss of key employees or disruptions among our shipboard personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. 29 table of contents business activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may subject us to additional risks. partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties, such as our joint venture to operate tui cruises, generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create additional risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. in addition, actions by another investor may present additional risks of operational difficulties. a failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair our operations or competitive position. our business continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems. these technologies and systems must be refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems on a regular basis. if we are unable to do so on a timely basis or within reasonable cost parameters, our business could suffer. we also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. a change in our tax status under the united states internal revenue code, or other jurisdictions, may have adverse effects on our income . we and a number of our subsidiaries are foreign corporations that derive income from a united states trade or business and/or from sources within the united states. drinker biddle &amp; reath llp, our united states tax counsel, has delivered to us an opinion, based on certain representations and assumptions set forth in it, to the effect that this income, to the extent derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships, is exempt from united states federal income tax pursuant to section 883 of the internal revenue code. we believe that most of our income (including that of our subsidiaries) is derived from or incidental to the international operation of a ship or ships. the provisions of section 883 are subject to change at any time by legislation. moreover, changes could occur in the future with respect to the identity, residence or holdings of our direct or indirect shareholders, trading volume or trading frequency of our shares, or relevant foreign tax laws of liberia or malta such that they no longer qualify as equivalent exemption jurisdictions, that could affect our eligibility for the section 883 exemption. accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be exempt from united states income tax on united states source shipping income in the future. if we were not entitled to the benefit of section 883, we and our subsidiaries would be subject to united states taxation on a portion of the income derived from or incidental to the international operation of our ships, which would reduce our net income. additionally, portions of our business are operated by companies that are within tonnage tax regimes of the u.k. and malta. further, some of the operations of these companies are conducted in jurisdictions where we rely on tax treaties to provide exemption from taxation. to the extent the tonnage tax laws of these countries change or we do not continue to meet the applicable qualification requirements or if tax treaties are changed or revoked, we may be required to pay higher income tax in these jurisdictions, resulting in lower net income. as budgetary constraints continue to adversely impact the jurisdictions in which we operate, increases in income tax regulations or tax reform affecting our operations may be imposed. we are not a united states corporation and our shareholders may be subject to the uncertainties of a foreign legal system in protecting their interests. our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the business corporation act of liberia. the provisions of the business corporation act of liberia resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the united states. however, while most states have a fairly well developed body of case law interpreting their respective corporate statutes, there are very few judicial cases in liberia interpreting the business corporation act of liberia. as such, the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under liberian law are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain united states jurisdictions. for example, the right of shareholders to bring a derivative action in liberian courts 30 table of contents may be more limited than in united states jurisdictions. there may also be practical difficulties for shareholders attempting to bring suit in liberia and liberian courts may or may not recognize and enforce foreign judgments. thus, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests with respect to actions by management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a united states jurisdiction. litigation, enforcement actions, fines or penalties could adversely impact our financial condition or results of operations and/or damage our reputation. our business is subject to various united states and international laws and regulations that could lead to enforcement actions, fines, civil or criminal penalties or the assertion of litigation claims and damages. in addition, improper conduct by our employees or agents could damage our reputation and/or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines. in certain circumstances it may not be economical to defend against such matters and/or a legal strategy may not ultimately result in us prevailing in a matter. such events could lead to an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and liberian law could inhibit others from acquiring us, prevent a change of control, and may prevent efforts by our shareholders to change our management. certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws and liberian law may inhibit third parties from effectuating a change of control of the company without board approval which could result in the entrenchment of current management. these include provisions in our articles of incorporation that prevent third parties, other than a. wilhelmsen as. and cruise associates, from acquiring beneficial ownership of more than 4.9% of our outstanding shares without the consent of our board of directors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk financial instruments and other general we are exposed to market risk attributable to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and fuel prices. we manage these risks through a combination of our normal operating and financing activities and through the use of derivative financial instruments pursuant to our hedging practices and policies. the financial impacts of these hedging instruments are primarily offset by corresponding changes in the underlying exposures being hedged. we achieve this by closely matching the amount, term and conditions of the derivative instrument with the underlying risk being hedged. we do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. we monitor our derivative positions using techniques including market valuations and sensitivity analyses. (see note 13. fair value measurements and derivative instruments to our consolidated financial statements under