quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 38 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks, which include changes in u.s. and international interest rates, as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates as measured against the u.s. dollar and each other. we attempt to reduce these risks by utilizing interest rate swap agreements and foreign currency forward and swap contracts. these hedging activities provide only limited protection against interest rate and currency exchange risks. factors that could impact the effectiveness of our programs include volatility of the interest rate and currency markets and availability of hedging instruments. all interest rate swap and currency contracts that we enter into are components of hedging programs and are entered into for the sole purpose of hedging an existing or anticipated interest rate and currency exposure, not for speculation. interest rate swaps we have fixed rate senior notes of $130.0 million at 6.94% and $100.0 million at 6.66%. during the fourth quarter of 2003, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to exchange our fixed interest rates for variable interest rates payable on the $230.0 million senior notes. the variable rate is comprised of libor plus the spreads and resets on the interest due dates for the senior notes. as a result of these interest rate swap agreements, as well as our existing variable rate credit lines and loan agreements, we are exposed to risk from changes in interest rates. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $2.4 million. as of december 27, 2003, the fair value of our interest rate swap agreements recorded in other non-current assets was approximately $700 thousand, which represented the amount that would be earned upon unwinding the interest rate swap agreements based on market conditions at that time. changes in the fair value of these interest rate swap agreements are reflected as an adjustment to the related assets with an offsetting adjustment to the carrying value of the $230.0 million notes as such hedges are deemed fully effective. foreign exchange the value of certain foreign currencies as compared to the u.s. dollar may affect our financial results. fluctuations in exchange rates may positively or negatively affect our revenues, gross margins, operating expenses, and retained earnings, all of which are expressed in u.s. dollars. where we deem it prudent, we engage in hedging programs, using primarily foreign currency forward and swap contracts, aimed at limiting the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on earnings. we purchase short-term foreign currency forward and swap contracts to protect against currency exchange risks associated with long-term intercompany loans, due from our international subsidiaries and the payment of merchandise purchases to foreign vendors. we do not hedge the translation of foreign currency profits into u.s. dollars as we regard this as an accounting not an economic exposure. as of december 27, 2003, we had outstanding foreign currency forward and swap contracts aggregating $105.5 million, of which $97.0 million related to intercompany debt and $8.5 million related to the purchase of merchandise from foreign vendors. the contracts hedge against currency fluctuations of british pounds ($32.9 million), euros ($61.7 million), australian dollars ($9.0 million), swiss francs ($1.4 million), japanese yen ($355 thousand), swedish krona ($82 thousand) and new zealand dollars ($82 thousand). as of december 27, 2003, the fair value of these contracts, calculated as the gross value of future us dollar payments and receipts determined by quoted market prices was $114.9 million. these contracts expire through january 2005. for the year ended december 27, 2003, we recognized a loss relating to our foreign currency forward and swap contracts of $200 thousand. 38 table of contents risk factors stockholders and investors should carefully consider the risks described below and other information in this annual report. our business, financial condition and operating results, and the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected if any of these risks materialize. the healthcare products distribution industry is highly competitive, and we compete with numerous companies, including major manufacturers and distributors that have greater financial and other resources than us. competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market particular products or manufacturers could increase their efforts to sell directly to end-users, thereby bypassing distributors like us. consolidation among healthcare products distributors could result in existing competitors increasing their market position. in addition, unavailability of products, whether due to our inability to gain access to products or interruptions in supply of products from manufacturers, could adversely affect our operating results. in recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including the reduction of spending budgets by government and private insurance programs, such as medicare, medicaid and corporate health insurance plans; trends toward managed care; consolidation of healthcare distribution companies; electronic commerce; and collective purchasing arrangements among office-based healthcare practitioners. if we are unable to react effectively to these and other changes in the healthcare industry, our operating results could be adversely affected. our technology segment, which primarily sells practice management software and other value-added products, depends upon continued product development, technical support and marketing. failures in these and related areas could adversely affect our results of operations. our business is subject to requirements under various local, state, federal and foreign governmental laws and regulations applicable to the manufacture and distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices, including the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, the prescription drug marketing act of 1987 and the controlled substances act. there is no assurance that current or future government regulations will not adversely affect our business. our business involves a risk of product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business, and from time to time we are named as a defendant in cases as a result of our distribution of pharmaceutical and other healthcare products. we have insurance policies, including product liability insurance, and in many cases we have indemnification rights from manufacturers with respect to the products we distribute. there is no assurance that insurance coverage or manufacturers indemnity will be available in all of the pending or any future cases brought against us, or that an unfavorable result in any such case will not adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. our business is dependent upon our ability to hire and retain qualified sales representatives, service specialists and other sales agents. due to the relationships developed between our field sales representatives and their customers, upon the departure of a sales representative we face the risk of losing the representative customers, especially if the representative becomes an employee of one of our competitors. our business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly influences. net sales and operating profits are generally higher in the third and fourth quarters due to timing of seasonal product sales, software and equipment sales, year-end promotions and purchasing patterns of office-based healthcare practitioners and are generally lower in the first quarter primarily due to the increased purchases in the prior quarter. 39 table of contents our international operations are subject to inherent risks, which could adversely affect our operating results. these risks include difficulties in opening and managing foreign offices and distribution centers; difficulties in establishing channels of distribution; fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies; longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty in collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions; import/export duties and quotas; and unexpected regulatory, economic and political changes in foreign markets. our expansion through acquisitions and/or joint ventures could result in a loss of customers, diversion of management attention and increased demands on our operations, information systems and financial resources. we rely on third parties to ship products to our customers. increases in shipping rates or interruptions of service could adversely affect our operating results. changes in e-commerce could affect our business relationships and could require significant resources. the rapid advancement of on-line commerce requires us to provide continuous improvement in performance, security, features and reliability of internet content and technology, particularly in response to competitive offerings. 40 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks, which include changes in interest rates, as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates as measured against the u.s. dollar and each other. we attempt to minimize these risks by using interest rate swap agreements and foreign currency forward and swap contracts. these hedging activities provide only limited protection against interest rate and currency exchange risks. factors that could influence the effectiveness of our programs include volatility of the interest rate and currency markets and availability of hedging instruments. all interest rate swap and currency contracts that we enter into are components of hedging programs and are entered into for the sole purpose of hedging an existing or anticipated interest rate and currency exposure, not for speculation. interest rate swaps we have fixed rate senior notes of $130.0 million at 6.94% and $100.0 million at 6.66%. during the fourth quarter of 2003, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to exchange our fixed interest rates for variable interest rates payable on the $230.0 million senior notes. the variable rate is comprised of libor plus the spreads and resets on the interest due dates for the senior notes. as a result of these interest rate swap agreements, as well as our existing variable rate credit lines and loan agreements, we are exposed to risk from changes in interest rates. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $2.8 million. as of december 25, 2004, the fair value of our interest rate swap agreements recorded in other non-current liabilities was $1.4 million, which represented the amount that would be paid upon unwinding the interest rate swap agreements based on market conditions at that time. changes in the fair value of these interest rate swap agreements are reflected as an adjustment to non-current assets or liabilities with an offsetting adjustment to the carrying value of the $230.0 million notes as such hedges are deemed fully effective. foreign exchange the value of certain foreign currencies as compared to the u.s. dollar may affect our financial results. fluctuations in exchange rates may positively or negatively affect our revenues, gross margins, operating expenses, and retained earnings, all of which are expressed in u.s. dollars. where we deem it prudent, we engage in hedging programs, using primarily foreign currency forward and swap contracts, aimed at limiting the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on earnings. we purchase short-term foreign currency forward and swap contracts to protect against currency exchange risks associated with long-term intercompany loans due from our international subsidiaries and the payment of merchandise purchases to foreign vendors. we do not hedge the translation of foreign currency profits into u.s. dollars, as we regard this as an accounting not an economic exposure. 36 table of contents as of december 25, 2004, we had outstanding foreign currency forward and swap contracts aggregating $447.2 million, of which $440.2 million related to intercompany debt and $7.0 million related to the purchase of merchandise from foreign vendors. the contracts hedge against currency fluctuations of euros ($371.5 million), british pounds ($57.0 million), australian dollars ($11.1 million), swedish krona ($4.0 million), swiss francs ($2.8 million), japanese yen ($590.0 thousand) and new zealand dollars ($265 thousand). as of december 25, 2004, the gross amount of these contracts, calculated as the aggregate value of future u.s. dollar payments and receipts, determined by quoted market prices, was $448.4 million. these contracts expire through june 2005. for the year ended december 25, 2004, we recognized a loss relating to our foreign currency forward and swap contracts of $892 thousand. risk factors the healthcare products distribution industry is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete successfully. we compete with numerous companies, including several major manufacturers and distributors. some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, which could allow them to compete more successfully. most of our products are available from several sources and our customers tend to have relationships with several distributors. competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market particular products, which we would then be unable to market. manufacturers could also increase their efforts to sell directly to end-users and by-pass distributors like us. industry consolidation among healthcare products distributors, the unavailability of products, whether due to our inability to gain access to products or interruptions in supply from manufacturers, or the emergence of new competitors could also increase competition. in the future, we may be unable to compete successfully and competitive pressures may reduce our revenues. the healthcare industry is experiencing changes which could adversely affect our business. the healthcare industry is highly regulated and subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. in recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including the reduction of spending budgets by government and private insurance programs, such as medicare, medicaid and corporate health insurance plans; pressures relating to potential healthcare reform, trends toward managed care; consolidation of healthcare distribution companies; collective purchasing arrangements among office-based healthcare practitioners; and reimbursements to customers. if we are unable to react effectively to these and other changes in the healthcare industry, our operating results could be adversely affected. in addition, the enactment of any significant healthcare reforms could have a material adverse effect on our business. we must comply with government regulations governing the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices and additional regulations could negatively affect our business. our business is subject to requirements under various local, state, federal and international governmental laws and regulations applicable to the manufacture and distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices. among the federal laws with which we must comply are the controlled substances act and the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, including the prescription drug marketing act of 1987 and the safe medical devices act. such laws: regulate the storage and distribution, labeling, handling, record keeping, manufacturing and advertising of drugs and medical devices; subject us to inspection by the federal food and drug administration and the drug enforcement administration; regulate the transportation of certain of our products that are considered hazardous materials; 37 table of contents require registration with the federal food and drug administration and the drug enforcement administration; require us to coordinate returns of products that have been recalled and subject us to inspection of our recall procedures; and impose reporting requirements if a pharmaceutical or medical device causes serious illness, injury or death. our business is also subject to requirements of foreign governmental laws and regulations affecting our operations abroad. the failure to comply with any of these regulations or the imposition of any additional regulations could negatively affect our business. there can be no assurance that current or future u.s. or foreign government regulations will not adversely affect our business. our international operations are subject to inherent risks, which could adversely affect our operating results. international operations are subject to risks that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the risks that our international operations are subject to include: difficulties and costs relating to staffing and managing foreign operations; difficulties in establishing channels of distribution; fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies; longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions; repatriation of cash from our foreign operations to the united states; cumbersome regulatory requirements; unexpected difficulties in importing or exporting our products; imposition of import/export duties, quotas, sanctions or penalties; and unexpected regulatory, economic and political changes in foreign markets. as a result of our acquisition of the demedis group, our foreign operations are significantly larger and, therefore, our exposure to the risks inherent in international operations has become greater. we experience fluctuations in quarterly earnings. as a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. our business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly fluctuations. net sales and operating profits generally have been higher in the third and fourth quarters due to the timing of sales of seasonal products (including influenza vaccine, equipment and software products), purchasing patterns of office-based healthcare practitioners and year-end promotions. net sales and operating profits generally have been lower in the first quarter, primarily due to increased sales in the prior two quarters. quarterly results may also be adversely affected by a variety of other factors, including: 38 table of contents costs of developing new applications and services; costs related to acquisitions of technologies or businesses; the timing and amount of sales and marketing expenditures; general economic conditions, as well as those specific to the healthcare industry and related industries; the timing of the release of functions of our technology-related products and services; and our success in establishing or maintaining business relationships. any change in one or more of these or other factors could cause our annual or quarterly operating results to fluctuate. if our operating results do not meet market expectations, our stock price may decline. because we do not manufacture the products we distribute, we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture and supply of our products. we obtain substantially all of our products from third-party suppliers. generally, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers, committing them to supply products to us. therefore, suppliers may not provide the products we need in the quantities we request. because we do not control the actual production of the products we sell, we may be subject to delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions outside of our control. in the event that any of our third-party suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to continue to provide the products in required volumes, we would need to identify and obtain acceptable replacement sources on a timely basis. there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain such alternative sources of supply on a timely basis, if at all. an extended interruption in the supply of our products, including the supply of our influenza vaccine and any other high sales volume product, would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, which most likely would adversely affect the value of our common stock. our expansion through acquisitions and joint ventures involves several risks. we have expanded our domestic and international markets in part through acquisitions and joint ventures, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions and enter into joint ventures in the future. such transactions involve numerous risks, including possible adverse effects on our operating results or the market price of our common stock. some of our acquisitions and future acquisitions may also give rise to an obligation by us to make contingent payments or to satisfy certain repurchase obligations, which payments could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, integrating acquired businesses and joint ventures: may result in a loss of customers or product lines of the acquired businesses or joint ventures; requires significant management attention; and may place significant demands on our operations, information systems and financial resources. there can be no assurance that our future acquisitions or joint ventures will be successful. our ability to continue to successfully effect acquisitions and joint ventures will depend upon the following: the availability of suitable acquisition or joint venture candidates at acceptable prices; our ability to consummate such transactions, which could potentially be prohibited due to national or international antitrust regulations; and the availability of financing on acceptable terms, in the case of non-stock transactions. 39 table of contents we face inherent risk of exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury. our business involves a risk of product liability and other claims and from time to time we are named as a defendant in cases as a result of our distribution of pharmaceutical and other healthcare products. additionally, we own a majority interest in a company that manufactures dental implants and we are subject to the potential risk of product liability or other claims relating to the manufacture of products by that entity. one of the potential risks we face in the distribution of our products is liability resulting from counterfeit products infiltrating the supply chain. in addition, some of the products that we transport and sell are considered hazardous materials. the improper handling of such materials or accidents involving the transportation of such materials could subject us to liability. we have insurance policies, including product liability insurance, covering risks and in amounts we consider adequate. additionally, in many cases we are covered by indemnification from the manufacturer of the product. however, we cannot assure you that the coverage maintained by us is sufficient to cover future claims, that it will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost, or that indemnification agreements will provide adequate protection for us. a successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance or indemnification, or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us, could harm our business. our technology segment depends upon continued product development, technical support and successful marketing. competition among companies supplying practice management software is intense and increasing. our future sales of practice management software will depend on, among other factors: the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs; our ability to enhance our products; and our ability to provide ongoing technical support. we cannot be sure that we will be successful in introducing and marketing new software or software enhancements, or that such software will be released on time or accepted by the market. our software products, like software products generally, may contain undetected errors or bugs when introduced or as new versions are released. we cannot be sure that future problems with post-release software errors or bugs will not occur. any such defective software may result in increased expenses related to the software and could adversely affect our relationships with the customers using such software. we do not have any patents on our software, and rely upon copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as contractual and common law protections. we cannot assure you that such legal protections will be available or enforceable to protect our software products. our revenues depend on our relationships with capable sales personnel as well as key customers, vendors and manufacturers of the products we distribute. our future operating results depend on our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified sales personnel as well as key customers, vendors and manufacturers. if we fail to maintain our existing relationships with such persons or fail to acquire relationships with such key persons in the future, our business may suffer. our future performance is materially dependent upon our senior management. our future success is substantially dependent upon the efforts and abilities of members of our existing senior management, particularly stanley m. bergman, chairman, chief executive officer and president, among others. the loss of the services of mr. bergman could have a material adverse effect on our business. we have an employment agreement with mr. bergman. we do not currently have key man life insurance 40 table of contents policies on any of our employees. competition for senior management is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel. increases in the cost of shipping or service trouble with our third- party shippers could harm our business. shipping is a significant expense in the operation of our business. we ship almost all of our u.s. orders by united parcel service, inc. and other delivery services, and typically bear the cost of shipment. accordingly, any significant increase in shipping rates could have an adverse effect on our operating results. similarly, strikes or other service interruptions by those shippers could cause our operating expenses to rise and adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis. we may not be able to respond to technological change effectively. traditional healthcare supply and distribution relationships are being challenged by electronic on-line commerce solutions. our distribution business is characterized by rapid technological developments and intense competition. the advancement of on-line commerce will require us to cost-effectively adapt to changing technologies, to enhance existing services and to develop and introduce a variety of new services to address changing demands of consumers and our clients on a timely basis, particularly in response to competitive offerings. our inability to anticipate and effectively respond to changes on a timely basis could have an adverse effect on our business. we are exposed to the risk of an increase in interest rates. during the fourth quarter of 2003, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to exchange our fixed rate interest rates for variable interest rates payable on our $230 million senior notes. our fixed interest rates on the senior notes were 6.94% and 6.66% for the $130 million and $100 million senior notes, respectively. the variable rate is comprised of libor plus the spreads and resets on the interest due dates for the senior notes. as a result of these interest rate swap agreements, as well as our existing variable rate credit lines, and loan agreements, we are exposed to risk from fluctuations in interest rates. for example, a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in interest rates would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $2.8 million. our acquisition of the demedis group may not result in the benefits and revenue growth we expect. on june 18, 2004, we acquired the demedis group. we are in the process of integrating these companies and assimilating the operations, services, products and personnel of each company with our management policies, procedures and strategies. we cannot be sure that we will achieve the benefits of revenue growth that we expect from this acquisition or that we will not incur unforeseen additional costs or expenses in connection with this acquisition. to effectively manage our expected future growth, we must continue to successfully manage our integration of the demedis group and continue to improve our operational systems, internal procedures, accounts receivable and management, financial and operational controls. if we fail in any of these areas, our business could be adversely affected. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. a variety of factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including: the publication of earnings estimates or other research reports and speculation in the press or investment community; changes in our industry and competitors; our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and prospects; 41 table of contents any future issuances of our common stock, which may include primary offerings for cash, stock splits, issuances in connection with business acquisitions and the grant or exercise of stock options from time to time; general market and economic conditions; and any outbreak or escalation of hostilities. in addition, the nasdaq national market can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies listed on nasdaq. broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. this type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources, which would harm our business. certain provisions in our governing documents and other documents to which we are a party may discourage third-party offers to acquire us that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price of their shares. the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, may discourage acquisition bids, and may limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions, among other things: require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 60% of the shares of common stock entitled to vote to approve a merger, consolidation, or a sale, lease, transfer or exchange of all or substantially all of our assets; and require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our common stock entitled to vote to: remove a director; and to amend or repeal our by-laws, with certain limited exceptions. in addition, the henry schein, inc. 1994 stock incentive plan, the henry schein, inc. 1996 non-employee director stock incentive plan and the henry schein, inc. 2001 non-employee director stock option plan provide for accelerated vesting of stock options upon a change in control, and certain agreements between us and our executive officers provide for increased severance payments if those executive officers are terminated without cause within two years after a change in control. we also have a stockholder rights plan which could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us if our board of directors does not determine that the acquisition proposal is adequate and in the stockholders best interest. 42 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors the healthcare products distribution industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully. we compete with numerous companies, including several major manufacturers and distributors. some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, which could allow them to compete more successfully. most of our products are available from several sources and our customers tend to have relationships with several distributors. competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market particular products, which we would then be unable to market. manufacturers could also increase their efforts to sell directly to end-users and bypass distributors like us. industry consolidation among healthcare products distributors, the unavailability of products, whether due to our inability to gain access to products or interruptions in supply from manufacturers, or the emergence of new competitors could also increase competition. in the future, we may be unable to compete successfully and competitive pressures may reduce our revenues. the healthcare industry is experiencing changes that could adversely affect our business. the healthcare industry is highly regulated and subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. in recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including the reduction of spending budgets by government and private insurance programs, such as medicare, medicaid and corporate health insurance plans; pressures relating to potential healthcare reform; trends toward managed care; consolidation of healthcare distribution companies; collective purchasing arrangements among office-based healthcare practitioners; and changes in reimbursements to customers. if we are unable to react effectively to these and other changes in the healthcare industry, our operating results could be adversely affected. in addition, the enactment of any significant healthcare reforms could have a material adverse effect on our business. we must comply with government regulations governing the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices, and additional regulations could negatively affect our business. our business is subject to requirements under various local, state, federal and international governmental laws and regulations applicable to the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices. among the federal laws with which we must comply are the controlled substances act, the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, as amended, the prescription drug marketing act of 1987 and the safe medical devices act of 1990, as amended. such laws: regulate the storage and distribution, labeling, handling, record keeping, manufacturing and advertising of drugs and medical devices; subject us to inspection by the federal food and drug administration and the drug enforcement administration; regulate the transportation of certain of our products that are considered hazardous materials; require registration with the federal food and drug administration and the drug enforcement administration; require us to coordinate returns of products that have been recalled and subject us to inspection of our recall procedures; and impose reporting requirements if a pharmaceutical or medical device causes serious illness, injury or death. 14 table of contents applicable federal and state laws and regulations may also require us to meet various standards relating to, among other things, licensure or registration, sales and marketing practices, product supply tracking to the manufacturer of the product, personnel, privacy of health or other personal information, and the importation and exportation of products. our business is also subject to requirements of foreign governmental laws and regulations affecting our operations abroad. the failure to comply with any of these regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or the imposition of any additional laws and regulations could negatively affect our business. there can be no assurance that current or future united states or foreign government regulations will not adversely affect our business. the costs to us associated with complying with the various applicable federal and state statutes and regulations, as they now exist and as they may be modified, could be material. allegations by a state or the federal government that we have not complied with these laws could have a material adverse impact on our businesses. if it is determined that we have not complied with these laws, or if we enter into settlement agreements to resolve allegations of non-compliance, we could be required to make settlement payments or be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the loss of licenses or our ability to participate in federal and state healthcare programs. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse impact on our businesses. we believe that the healthcare services industry will continue to be subject to extensive regulation at the federal, state, and local levels and that we have adequate compliance programs and controls to ensure compliance with the laws and regulations. if we fail to comply with laws and regulations in respect of healthcare fraud, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. we are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal and state laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud. the federal government continues to strengthen its position and scrutiny over practices involving healthcare fraud affecting government healthcare programs. our relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers subject our business to laws and regulations on fraud and abuse which, among other things, (i) prohibit persons from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient for treatment or for inducing the ordering or purchasing of items or services that are in any way paid for by government-sponsored healthcare programs and (ii) impose a number of restrictions upon referring physicians and providers of designated health services under government healthcare programs. while we believe that we are substantially compliant with all applicable laws, many of the regulations applicable to us are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts. they may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses or our ability to participate in federal and state healthcare programs. our international operations are subject to inherent risks that could adversely affect our operating results. international operations are subject to risks that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the risks that our international operations are subject to include: difficulties and costs relating to staffing and managing foreign operations; difficulties in establishing channels of distribution; fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies; longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions; repatriation of cash from our foreign operations to the united states; regulatory requirements; 15 table of contents unexpected difficulties in importing or exporting our products; imposition of import/export duties, quotas, sanctions or penalties; and unexpected regulatory, economic and political changes in foreign markets. as a result of our acquisition of the demedis group and other foreign companies, our foreign operations are significantly larger and, therefore, our exposure to the risks inherent in international operations has become greater. we experience fluctuations in quarterly earnings. as a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. our business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly fluctuations. net sales and operating profits generally have been higher in the third and fourth quarters due to the timing of sales of seasonal products (including influenza vaccine, equipment and software products), purchasing patterns of office-based healthcare practitioners and year-end promotions. net sales and operating profits generally have been lower in the first quarter, primarily due to increased sales in the prior two quarters. quarterly results may also be adversely affected by a variety of other factors, including: costs of developing new applications and services; costs related to acquisitions and/or integrations of technologies or businesses; timing and amount of sales and marketing expenditures; loss of sales representatives; general economic conditions, as well as those specific to the healthcare industry and related industries; timing of the release of functions of our technology-related products and services; establishing or maintaining business relationships; consummating the sale of our hospital supply business; changes in accounting principles; and product availability or recalls by manufacturers. any change in one or more of these or other factors could cause our annual or quarterly operating results to fluctuate. if our operating results do not meet market expectations, our stock price may decline. because substantially all of the products that we distribute are not manufactured by us, we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture and supply of substantially all of our products. we obtain substantially all of our products from third-party suppliers. generally, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to supply products to us. therefore, suppliers may not provide the products we need in the quantities we request. because we do not control the actual production of the products we sell, we may be subject to delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions outside of our control. in the event that any of our third-party suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to continue to provide the products in required volumes, we would need to identify and obtain acceptable replacement sources on a timely basis. there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain such alternative sources of supply on a timely basis, if at all. an extended interruption in the supply of our products, including the supply of our influenza vaccine and any other high sales volume product, would have an 16 table of contents adverse effect on our results of operations, which most likely would adversely affect the value of our common stock. our expansion through acquisitions and joint ventures involves risks. we have expanded our domestic and international markets in part through acquisitions and joint ventures, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions and enter into joint ventures in the future. such transactions involve numerous risks, including possible adverse effects on our operating results or the market price of our common stock. some of our acquisitions and future acquisitions may also give rise to an obligation by us to make contingent payments or to satisfy certain repurchase obligations, which payments could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, integrating acquired businesses and joint ventures: may result in a loss of customers or product lines of the acquired businesses or joint ventures; requires significant management attention; and may place significant demands on our operations, information systems and financial resources. there can be no assurance that our future acquisitions or joint ventures will be successful. our ability to continue to successfully effect acquisitions and joint ventures will depend upon the following: the availability of suitable acquisition or joint venture candidates at acceptable prices; our ability to consummate such transactions, which could potentially be prohibited due to u.s. or foreign antitrust regulations; and the availability of financing on acceptable terms, in the case of non-stock transactions. we face inherent risk of exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury. our business involves a risk of product liability and other claims and from time to time we are named as a defendant in cases as a result of our distribution of pharmaceutical and other healthcare products. additionally, we own a majority interest in a company that manufactures dental implants and we are subject to the potential risk of product liability or other claims relating to the manufacture of products by that entity. one of the potential risks we face in the distribution of our products is liability resulting from counterfeit products infiltrating the supply chain. in addition, some of the products that we transport and sell are considered hazardous materials. the improper handling of such materials or accidents involving the transportation of such materials could subject us to liability. we have insurance policies, including product liability insurance, covering risks and in amounts that we consider adequate. additionally, in many cases we are covered by indemnification from the manufacturer of the product. however, we cannot provide assurance that the coverage maintained by us is sufficient to cover future claims, that it will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost, or that indemnification agreements will provide adequate protection for us. a successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance or indemnification, or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us, could harm our business. our technology segment depends upon continued product development, technical support and successful marketing. competition among companies supplying practice-management software is intense and increasing. our future sales of practice-management software will depend on, among other factors: the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs; our ability to enhance our products; and 17 table of contents our ability to provide ongoing technical support. we cannot be sure that we will be successful in introducing and marketing new software or software enhancements, or that such software will be released on time or accepted by the market. our software products, like software products generally, may contain undetected errors or bugs when introduced or as new versions are released. we cannot be sure that future problems with post-release software errors or bugs will not occur. any such defective software may result in increased expenses related to the software and could adversely affect our relationships with the customers using such software. we do not have any patents on our software, and rely upon copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as contractual and common law protections. we cannot assure you that such legal protections will be available or enforceable to protect our software products. our revenues depend on our relationships with capable sales personnel as well as key customers, vendors and manufacturers of the products that we distribute. our future operating results depend on our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified sales personnel as well as key customers, vendors and manufacturers. if we fail to maintain our existing relationships with such persons or fail to acquire relationships with such key persons in the future, our business may suffer. our future success is substantially dependent upon our senior management. our future success is substantially dependent upon the efforts and abilities of members of our existing senior management, particularly stanley m. bergman, chairman and chief executive officer, among others. the loss of the services of mr. bergman could have a material adverse effect on our business. we have an employment agreement with mr. bergman. we do not currently have key man life insurance policies on any of our employees. competition for senior management is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel. increases in the cost of shipping or service trouble with our third-party shippers could harm our business. shipping is a significant expense in the operation of our business. we ship almost all of our u.s. orders through united parcel service, inc. and other delivery services, and typically bear the cost of shipment. accordingly, any significant increase in shipping rates could have an adverse effect on our operating results. similarly, strikes or other service interruptions by those shippers could cause our operating expenses to rise and adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis. we may not be able to respond to technological change effectively. traditional healthcare supply and distribution relationships are being challenged by electronic online commerce solutions. our distribution business is characterized by rapid technological developments and intense competition. the advancement of online commerce will require us to cost-effectively adapt to changing technologies, to enhance existing services and to develop and introduce a variety of new services to address changing demands of consumers and our clients on a timely basis, particularly in response to competitive offerings. our inability to anticipate and effectively respond to changes on a timely basis could have an adverse effect on our business. we are exposed to the risk of an increase in interest rates. in 2003, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to exchange our fixed-rate interest rates for variable interest rates payable on our $230.0 million senior notes. our fixed interest rates on the senior notes were 6.94% and 6.66% for the $130.0 million and $100.0 million senior notes, respectively. the variable rate is comprised of libor plus the spreads and resets on the interest due dates for the senior notes. as a result 18 table of contents of these interest rate swap agreements, as well as our existing variable rate credit lines, and loan agreements, we are exposed to risk from fluctuations in interest rates. our acquisitions may not result in the benefits and revenue growth we expect. we are in the process of integrating companies that we acquired, including the demedis group, and assimilating the operations, services, products and personnel of each company with our management policies, procedures and strategies. we cannot be sure that we will achieve the benefits of revenue growth that we expect from these acquisitions or that we will not incur unforeseen additional costs or expenses in connection with these acquisitions. to effectively manage our expected future growth, we must continue to successfully manage our integration of these companies and continue to improve our operational systems, internal procedures, accounts receivable and management, financial and operational controls. if we fail in any of these areas, our business could be adversely affected. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. a variety of factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including: the publication of earnings estimates or other research reports and speculation in the press or investment community; changes in our industry and competitors; our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and prospects; any future issuances of our common stock, which may include primary offerings for cash, stock splits, issuances in connection with business acquisitions, restricted stock and the grant or exercise of stock options from time to time; the dilutive impact of convertible debt on our earnings per share; general market and economic conditions; and any outbreak or escalation of hostilities in areas we do business. in addition, the nasdaq national market can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies listed on nasdaq. broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. this type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources, which would harm our business. certain provisions in our governing documents and other documents to which we are a party may discourage third-party offers to acquire us that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price of their shares. the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, may discourage acquisition bids, and may limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions, among other things: require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 60% of the shares of common stock entitled to vote to approve a merger, consolidation, or a sale, lease, transfer or exchange of all or substantially all of our assets; and 19 table of contents require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our common stock entitled to vote to: remove a director; and to amend or repeal our by-laws, with certain limited exceptions. in addition, our 1994 stock incentive plan, 1996 non-employee director stock incentive plan and 2001 non-employee director incentive plan provide for accelerated vesting of stock options upon a change in control, and certain agreements between us and our executive officers provide for increased severance payments if those executive officers are terminated without cause within two years after a change in control. we also have a stockholder rights plan that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us if our board of directors does not determine that the acquisition proposal is adequate and in the stockholders best interest. tax legislation initiatives could adversely affect the company net earnings and tax liabilities. we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the united states federal, state and local governments, as well as foreign jurisdictions. from time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. there can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. in addition, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. although we believe that our historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks, which include changes in interest rates, as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates as measured against the u.s. dollar and each other. we attempt to minimize these risks by using interest rate swap agreements and foreign currency forward and swap contracts. these hedging activities provide only limited protection against interest rate and currency exchange risks. factors that could influence the effectiveness of our programs include volatility of the interest rate and currency markets and availability of hedging instruments. all interest rate swap and foreign currency forward and swap contracts that we enter into are components of hedging programs and are entered into for the sole purpose of hedging an existing or anticipated interest rate and currency exposure. we do not enter into such contracts for speculative purposes. interest rate swap agreements we have fixed rate senior notes of $130.0 million at 6.94% and $100.0 million at 6.66%. during 2003, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to exchange these fixed interest rates for variable interest rates. the variable rates are comprised of libor plus the spreads and reset on the interest due dates for the senior notes. as a result of these interest rate swap agreements, as well as our existing variable rate credit lines and loan agreements, we are exposed to risk from changes in interest rates. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $2.4 million. as of december 31, 2005, the fair value of our interest rate swap agreements recorded in other non-current liabilities was $7.4 million, which represented the amount that would be paid upon unwinding the interest rate swap agreements based on market conditions at that time. changes in the fair value of these interest rate swap agreements are reflected as an adjustment to non-current assets or liabilities with an offsetting adjustment to the carrying value of the $230.0 million notes as such hedges are deemed fully effective. foreign currency agreements the value of certain foreign currencies as compared to the u.s. dollar may affect our financial results. fluctuations in exchange rates may positively or negatively affect our revenues, gross margins, operating expenses, and retained earnings, all of which are expressed in u.s. dollars. where we deem it prudent, we engage in hedging programs, using primarily foreign currency forward and swap contracts, aimed at limiting the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on earnings. we purchase short-term (i.e., twelve months or less) foreign currency forward and swap contracts to protect against currency exchange risks associated with long-term intercompany loans due from our international subsidiaries and the payment of merchandise purchases to foreign vendors. we do not hedge the translation of foreign currency profits into u.s. dollars, as we regard this as an accounting exposure, not an economic exposure. as of december 31, 2005, we had outstanding foreign currency forward and swap contracts with notional amounts of $395.6 million, of which $353.5 million related to intercompany debt and $42.1 million related to the purchase of merchandise from foreign vendors. the contracts hedge currency fluctuations against the u.s. dollar for euros ($277.4 million), british pounds ($38.0 million), australian dollars ($8.1 million), swiss francs ($1.9 million), japanese yen ($394 thousand) and canadian dollars ($8.4 million). in addition, our international business entered into hedges against currency fluctuations relative to local functional currencies. the notional amount of such contracts was $61.4 million. a hypothetical 5% change of the value of the u.s. dollar would change the fair value of our foreign currency exchange agreements by $16.3 million. as of december 31, 2005, the fair value of our foreign currency exchange agreements, which expire through december 4, 2006, recorded in other current assets was $4.0 million, as determined by quoted market prices. for the year ended december 31, 2005, we had realized net gains of $4 thousand and unrealized gains of $1.4 million relating to such agreements. 44risk factors 14 risk factors the healthcare products distribution industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully. we compete with numerous companies, including several major manufacturers and distributors. some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, which could allow them to compete more successfully. most of our products are available from several sources and our customers tend to have relationships with several distributors. competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market particular products, which we would then be unable to market. manufacturers also could increase their efforts to sell directly to end-users and thereby eliminate or reduce our role and that of other distributors. industry consolidation among healthcare products distributors, the unavailability of products, whether due to our inability to gain access to products or to interruptions in supply from manufacturers, or the emergence of new competitors also could increase competition. in the future, we may be unable to compete successfully and competitive pressures may reduce our revenues. the healthcare industry is experiencing changes that could adversely affect our business. the healthcare industry is highly regulated and subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. in recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including the reduction of spending budgets by government and private insurance programs, such as medicare, medicaid and corporate health insurance plans; pressures relating to potential healthcare reform; trends toward managed care; consolidation of healthcare distribution companies; consolidation of healthcare manufacturers; collective purchasing arrangements among office-based healthcare practitioners; and changes in reimbursements to customers. if we are unable to react effectively to these and other changes in the healthcare industry, our operating results could be adversely affected. in addition, the enactment of any significant healthcare reforms could have a material adverse effect on our business. we must comply with government regulations governing the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices, and additional regulations could negatively affect our business. our business is subject to requirements under various local, state, federal and international governmental laws and regulations applicable to the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices. among the federal laws with which we must comply are the controlled substances act, the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, as amended, the prescription drug marketing act of 1987 and the safe medical devices act of 1990, as amended. such laws: regulate the storage and distribution, labeling, handling, record keeping, manufacturing and advertising of drugs and medical devices; subject us to inspection by the federal food and drug administration and the drug enforcement administration; regulate the transportation of certain of our products that are considered hazardous materials; require registration with the federal food and drug administration and the drug enforcement administration; require us to coordinate returns of products that have been recalled and subject us to inspection of our recall procedures; and impose reporting requirements if a pharmaceutical or medical device causes serious illness, injury or death. 14 table of contents applicable federal and state laws and regulations also may require us to meet various standards relating to, among other things, licensure or registration, sales and marketing practices, product supply tracking to the manufacturer of the product, personnel, privacy of health or other personal information, and the importation and exportation of products. our business also is subject to requirements of foreign governmental laws and regulations affecting our operations abroad. the failure to comply with any of these regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or the imposition of any additional laws and regulations could negatively affect our business. there can be no assurance that current or future united states or foreign government regulations will not adversely affect our business. the costs to us associated with complying with the various applicable federal and state statutes and regulations, as they now exist and as they may be modified, could be material. allegations by a state or the federal government that we have not complied with these laws could have a material adverse impact on our businesses. if it is determined that we have not complied with these laws, or if we enter into settlement agreements to resolve allegations of non-compliance, we could be required to make settlement payments or be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the loss of licenses or our ability to participate in federal and state healthcare programs. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse impact on our businesses. we believe that the healthcare services industry will continue to be subject to extensive regulation at the federal, state and local levels and that we have adequate compliance programs and controls to ensure compliance with the laws and regulations. if we fail to comply with laws and regulations in respect to healthcare fraud, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. we are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal and state laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud. the federal government continues to strengthen its position and scrutiny over practices involving healthcare fraud affecting government healthcare programs. our relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers subject our business to laws and regulations on fraud and abuse which, among other things, (i) prohibit persons from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient for treatment or for inducing the ordering or purchasing of items or services that are in any way paid for by government-sponsored healthcare programs and (ii) impose a number of restrictions upon referring physicians and providers of designated health services under government healthcare programs. while we believe that we are substantially compliant with all applicable laws, many of the regulations applicable to us are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts. they may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses or our ability to participate in federal and state healthcare programs. our international operations are subject to inherent risks that could adversely affect our operating results. international operations are subject to risks that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the risks that our international operations are subject to include: difficulties and costs relating to staffing and managing foreign operations; difficulties in establishing channels of distribution; fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies; longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions; repatriation of cash from our foreign operations to the united states; regulatory requirements; 15 table of contents unexpected difficulties in importing or exporting our products; imposition of import/export duties, quotas, sanctions or penalties; and unexpected regulatory, economic and political changes in foreign markets. we experience fluctuations in quarterly earnings. as a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. our business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly fluctuations. net sales and operating profits generally have been higher in the third and fourth quarters due to the timing of sales of seasonal products (including influenza vaccine, equipment and software products), purchasing patterns of office-based healthcare practitioners and year-end promotions. net sales and operating profits generally have been lower in the first quarter, primarily due to increased sales in the prior two quarters. quarterly results may also be adversely affected by a variety of other factors, including: costs of developing new applications and services; costs related to acquisitions and/or integrations of technologies or businesses; timing and amount of sales and marketing expenditures; loss of sales representatives; general economic conditions, as well as those specific to the healthcare industry and related industries; timing of the release of functions of our technology-related products and services; our success in establishing or maintaining business relationships; changes in accounting principles; product availability or recalls by manufacturers; exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury; and increases in the cost of shipping or service trouble with our third-party shippers. any change in one or more of these or other factors could cause our annual or quarterly operating results to fluctuate. if our operating results do not meet market expectations, our stock price may decline. because substantially all of the products that we distribute are not manufactured by us, we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture and supply of substantially all of our products. we obtain substantially all of our products from third-party suppliers. generally, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to supply products to us. therefore, suppliers may not provide the products we need in the quantities we request. because we do not control the actual production of the products we sell, we may be subject to delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions outside of our control. in the event that any of our third-party suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to continue to provide the products in required volumes, we would need to identify and obtain acceptable replacement sources on a timely basis. there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain such alternative sources of supply on a timely basis, if at all. an extended interruption in the supply of our products, including the supply of our influenza vaccine and any other high sales volume product, would have an 16 table of contents adverse effect on our results of operations, which most likely would adversely affect the value of our common stock. our expansion through acquisitions and joint ventures involves risks. we have expanded our domestic and international markets in part through acquisitions and joint ventures, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions and enter into joint ventures in the future. such transactions involve numerous risks, including possible adverse effects on our operating results or the market price of our common stock. some of our acquisitions and future acquisitions may also give rise to an obligation by us to make contingent payments or to satisfy certain repurchase obligations, which payments could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, integrating acquired businesses and joint ventures: may result in a loss of customers or product lines of the acquired businesses or joint ventures; requires significant management attention; and may place significant demands on our operations, information systems and financial resources. there can be no assurance that our future acquisitions or joint ventures will be successful. our ability to continue to successfully effect acquisitions and joint ventures will depend upon the following: the availability of suitable acquisition or joint venture candidates at acceptable prices; our ability to consummate such transactions, which could potentially be prohibited due to u.s. or foreign antitrust regulations; and the availability of financing on acceptable terms, in the case of non-stock transactions. our acquisitions may not result in the benefits and revenue growth we expect. we are in the process of integrating companies that we acquired and assimilating the operations, services, products and personnel of each company with our management policies, procedures and strategies. we cannot be sure that we will achieve the benefits of revenue growth that we expect from these acquisitions or that we will not incur unforeseen additional costs or expenses in connection with these acquisitions. to effectively manage our expected future growth, we must continue to successfully manage our integration of these companies and continue to improve our operational systems, internal procedures, accounts receivable and management, financial and operational controls. if we fail in any of these areas, our business could be adversely affected. we face inherent risk of exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury. our business involves a risk of product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business, and from time to time we are named as a defendant in cases as a result of our distribution of pharmaceutical products, medical devices and other healthcare products. additionally, we own a majority interest in a company that manufactures dental implants and we are subject to the potential risk of product liability or other claims relating to the manufacture of products by that entity. one of the potential risks we face in the distribution of our products is liability resulting from counterfeit products infiltrating the supply chain. in addition, some of the products that we transport and sell are considered hazardous materials. the improper handling of such materials or accidents involving the transportation of such materials could subject us to liability. we have various insurance policies, including product liability insurance, covering risks and in amounts that we consider adequate. in many cases in which we have been sued in connection with products manufactured by others, the manufacturer of the product provides us with indemnification. there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be available in adequate amounts or at 17 table of contents a reasonable cost, or that indemnification agreements will provide us with adequate protection. a successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance or not covered by indemnification agreements, or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us, could have an adverse effect on our business. our technology segment depends upon continued software and e-services product development, technical support and successful marketing. competition among companies supplying practice-management software and/or e-services is intense and increasing. our future sales of practice-management software and e-services will depend on, among other factors: the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs; our ability to enhance our products and services; and our ability to provide ongoing technical support. we cannot be sure that we will be successful in introducing and marketing new software, software enhancements or e-services, or that such software, software enhancements and e-services will be released on time or accepted by the market. our software and applicable e-services products, like software products generally, may contain undetected errors or bugs when introduced or as new versions are released. we cannot be sure that future problems with post-release software errors or bugs will not occur. any such defective software may result in increased expenses related to the software and could adversely affect our relationships with the customers using such software. we do not have any patents on our software or e-services, and rely upon copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as contractual and common law protections. we cannot provide assurance that such legal protections will be available or enforceable to protect our software or e-services products. our revenues depend on our relationships with capable sales personnel as well as key customers, suppliers and manufacturers of the products that we distribute. our future operating results depend on our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified sales personnel as well as key customers, suppliers and manufacturers. if we fail to maintain our existing relationships with such persons or fail to acquire relationships with such key persons in the future, our business may suffer. our future success is substantially dependent upon our senior management. our future success is substantially dependent upon the efforts and abilities of members of our existing senior management, particularly stanley m. bergman, chairman and chief executive officer, among others. the loss of the services of mr. bergman could have a material adverse effect on our business. we have an employment agreement with mr. bergman. we do not currently have key man life insurance policies on any of our employees. competition for senior management is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel. increases in the cost of shipping or service trouble with our third-party shippers could harm our business. shipping is a significant expense in the operation of our business. we ship almost all of our u.s. orders through united parcel service, inc. and other delivery services, and typically bear the cost of shipment. accordingly, any significant increase in shipping rates could have an adverse effect on our operating results. similarly, strikes or other service interruptions by those shippers could cause our operating expenses to rise and adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis. 18 table of contents we may not be able to respond to technological change effectively. traditional healthcare supply and distribution relationships are being challenged by electronic online commerce solutions. our distribution business is characterized by rapid technological developments and intense competition. the advancement of online commerce will require us to cost-effectively adapt to changing technologies, to enhance existing services and to develop and introduce a variety of new services to address changing demands of consumers and our clients on a timely basis, particularly in response to competitive offerings. our inability to anticipate and effectively respond to changes on a timely basis could have an adverse effect on our business. we are exposed to the risk of an increase in interest rates. in 2003, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to exchange our fixed-rate interest rates for variable interest rates payable on our $210.0 million senior notes. our fixed interest rates on the senior notes were 6.9% and 6.7% for the $130.0 million and $80.0 million senior notes, respectively. the variable rate is comprised of libor plus the spreads and resets on the interest due dates for the senior notes. as a result of these interest rate swap agreements, as well as our existing variable rate credit lines and loan agreements, we are exposed to risk from fluctuations in interest rates. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. a variety of factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including: the publication of earnings estimates or other research reports and speculation in the press or investment community; changes in our industry and competitors; our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and prospects; any future issuances of our common stock, which may include primary offerings for cash, stock splits, issuances in connection with business acquisitions, restricted stock and the grant or exercise of stock options from time to time; the dilutive impact of convertible debt on our earnings per share; general market and economic conditions; and any outbreak or escalation of hostilities in areas where we do business. in addition, the nasdaq stock market can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies listed on nasdaq. broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. this type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources, which would have an adverse effect on our business. 19 table of contents certain provisions in our governing documents and other documents to which we are a party may discourage third-party offers to acquire us that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price of their shares. the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, may discourage acquisition bids and may limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions, among other things: require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 60% of the shares of common stock entitled to vote to approve a merger, consolidation, or a sale, lease, transfer or exchange of all or substantially all of our assets; and require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our common stock entitled to vote to: remove a director; and to amend or repeal our by-laws, with certain limited exceptions. in addition, our 1994 stock incentive plan, 1996 non-employee director stock incentive plan and 2001 non-employee director incentive plan provide for accelerated vesting of stock options upon a change in control, and certain agreements between us and our executive officers provide for increased severance payments if those executive officers are terminated without cause within two years after a change in control. we also have a stockholder rights plan that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us if our board of directors does not determine that the acquisition proposal is adequate and in the stockholders best interest. tax legislation initiatives could adversely affect our net earnings and tax liabilities. we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the united states federal, state and local governments, as well as foreign jurisdictions. from time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. there can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. in addition, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. although we believe that our historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks, which include changes in interest rates, as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates as measured against the u.s. dollar and each other. we attempt to minimize these risks by using interest rate swap agreements and foreign currency forward and swap contracts. these hedging activities provide only limited protection against interest rate and currency exchange risks. factors that could influence the effectiveness of our programs include volatility of the interest rate and currency markets and availability of hedging instruments. all interest rate swap and foreign currency forward and swap contracts that we enter into are components of hedging programs and are entered into for the sole purpose of hedging an existing or anticipated interest rate and currency exposure. we do not enter into such contracts for speculative purposes. interest rate swap agreements we have fixed rate senior notes of $130.0 million at 6.9% and $80.0 million at 6.7%. during 2003, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to exchange these fixed interest rates for variable interest rates. the variable rates are comprised of libor plus the spreads and reset on the interest due dates for the senior notes. as a result of these interest rate swap agreements, as well as our existing variable rate credit lines and loan agreements, we are exposed to risk from changes in interest rates. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $2.1 million. as of december 30, 2006, the fair value of our interest rate swap agreements recorded in other current and non-current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet was $6.7 million, which represented the amount that would be paid upon unwinding the interest rate swap agreements based on market conditions at that time. changes in the fair value of these interest rate swap agreements are reflected as an adjustment to current and non-current assets or liabilities with an offsetting adjustment to the carrying value of the $210.0 million notes as such hedges are deemed fully effective. net investment hedging during the year ended december 30, 2006, we implemented a change in our method of assessing the amount of effectiveness on all newly transacted net investment hedges to be based on changes in spot exchange rates. previously, we assessed the amount of effectiveness using a method based on changes in forward exchange rates. this change in method essentially converts certain u.s. libor based borrowings to euro libor based borrowings, allowing us to better align our interest costs and the currency-denomination of funding the business with the geography of our business interests. with regard to all net investment hedging arrangements that existed at the time of this change, we stopped applying hedge accounting prospectively from the date of change. as a result, we recognized a pre-tax gain of approximately $2.0 million, representing the foreign exchange component of our mark-to-market adjustment for the period from the date of change through december 30, 2006. additionally, as a result of this change, we recognized a reduction in interest expense of approximately $2.8 million representing the interest rate component of our mark-to-market adjustment. given current market conditions, we expect further reductions of interest expense into the foreseeable future. foreign currency agreements the value of certain foreign currencies as compared to the u.s. dollar may affect our financial results. fluctuations in exchange rates may positively or negatively affect our revenues, gross margins, operating expenses, and retained earnings, all of which are expressed in u.s. dollars. where we deem it prudent, we engage in hedging programs using primarily foreign currency forward and swap contracts aimed at limiting the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on earnings. we purchase short-term (i.e., 12 months or less) foreign currency forward and swap contracts to protect against currency exchange risks associated with long-term intercompany loans due from our international subsidiaries and the payment of 46 table of contents merchandise purchases to foreign suppliers. we do not hedge the translation of foreign currency profits into u.s. dollars, as we regard this as an accounting exposure, not an economic exposure. as of december 30, 2006, we had outstanding foreign currency forward and swap contracts with notional amounts of $478.7 million, of which $420.2 million related to intercompany debt and $58.5 million related to the purchase of merchandise from foreign suppliers. the contracts hedge currency fluctuations against the u.s. dollar for euros ($334.4 million), british pounds ($34.8 million), australian dollars ($22.7 million), swiss francs ($1.1 million), japanese yen ($168.5 thousand) and canadian dollars ($5.3 million). in addition, our international business entered into hedges against currency fluctuations relative to local functional currencies. the notional amount of such contracts was $80.2 million. a hypothetical 5% change of the value of the u.s. dollar would change the fair value of our foreign currency exchange agreements by $20.6 million. as of december 30, 2006, the fair value of our foreign currency exchange agreements, which expire through january 2, 2008, recorded in other current liabilities was $8.7 million, as determined by quoted market prices. for the year ended december 30, 2006, we had realized net gains of $1.5 million and unrealized gains of $1.5 million relating to such agreements. 47 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors for a discussion of additional regulatory developments that may affect our results of operations and financial condition. proprietary rights we hold trademarks relating to the henry schein name and logo, as well as certain other trademarks. pursuant to agreements executed in connection with our reorganization in 1994, both henry schein, inc. and schein pharmaceutical, inc. (which was acquired by watson pharmaceuticals, inc. in 2000), a company previously engaged in the manufacture and distribution of multi-source pharmaceutical products, are entitled to use the schein name in connection with their respective businesses, but schein pharmaceutical, inc. must always use schein in combination with the word pharmaceuticals and is not entitled to use the name henry schein or to use schein alone or with any other word (other than pharmaceuticals ). we intend to protect our trademarks to the fullest extent practicable. employees as of december 29, 2007, we employed more than 12,000 full-time employees, including approximately 1,450 telesales representatives, 2,600 field sales consultants, including equipment sales specialists, 2,150 warehouse employees, 450 computer programmers and technicians, 1,100 management employees and 4,300 office, clerical and administrative employees. approximately 224 or 1.9% of our employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements. we believe that our relations with our employees are excellent. available information we make available free of charge through our internet web site, www.henryschein.com , our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, statements of beneficial ownership of securities on forms 3, 4 and 5 and amendments to these reports and statements filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) and section 16 of the securities exchange act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the sec. the above information is also available at the sec office of investor education and assistance at united states securities and exchange commission, 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549-0213 or obtainable by calling the sec at (800) 732-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet web site at www.sec.gov , where the above information can be viewed. our principal executive offices are located at 135 duryea road, melville, new york 11747, and our telephone number is (631) 843-5500. unless the context specifically requires otherwise, the terms the company, henry schein, we, us and our mean henry schein, inc., a delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. 11 table of contents executive officers of the registrant the following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers: name age position stanley m. bergman 58 chairman, chief executive officer, director gerald a. benjamin 55 executive vice president, chief administrative officer, director james p. breslawski 54 president, chief operating officer, director leonard a. david 59 senior vice president, chief compliance officer james harding 52 senior vice president, corporate chief technology officer stanley komaroff 72 senior advisor mark e. mlotek 52 executive vice president, corporate business development, director steven paladino 50 executive vice president, chief financial officer, director michael racioppi 53 senior vice president, chief merchandising officer michael zack 55 president, international group stanley m. bergman has been our chairman and chief executive officer since 1989 and a director since 1982. mr. bergman held the position of president from 1989 to 2005. mr. bergman held the position of executive vice president from 1985 to 1989 and vice president of finance and administration from 1980 to 1985. gerald a. benjamin has been our executive vice president and chief administrative officer since 2000 and a director since 1994. prior to holding his current position, mr. benjamin was senior vice president of administration and customer satisfaction since 1993. mr. benjamin was vice president of distribution operations from 1990 to 1992 and director of materials management from 1988 to 1990. before joining us in 1988, mr. benjamin was employed for 13 years in various management positions at est e lauder, inc., where his last position was director of materials planning and control. james p. breslawski has been our president and chief operating officer since may 2005 and a director since 1992. mr. breslawski held the position of executive vice president and president of u.s. dental from 1990 to april 2005, with primary responsibility for the north american dental group. between 1980 and 1990, mr. breslawski held various positions with us, including chief financial officer, vice president of finance and administration and controller. leonard a. david has been our senior vice president and chief compliance officer since march 2006. mr. david held the position of vice president and chief compliance officer from march 2005 to march 2006. mr. david held the position of vice president of human resources and special counsel from 1995 to march 2005. mr. david held the position of vice president, general counsel and secretary from 1990 through 1994 and practiced corporate and business law for eight years prior to joining us. james harding has been corporate chief technology officer of the company since may 2005 and senior vice president since october 2001. prior to holding his current position, mr. harding was chief information officer since october 2001, with primary responsibility for worldwide information technology. stanley komaroff has been senior advisor since 2003. prior to joining us, mr. komaroff was a partner for 35 years in the law firm of proskauer rose llp, counsel to us. he served as chairman of that firm from 1991 to 1999. 12 table of contents mark e. mlotek has been executive vice president of the corporate business development group since 2004 and was senior vice president of corporate business development from 2000 to 2004. prior to that, mr. mlotek was vice president, general counsel and secretary from 1994 to 1999 and became a director in 1995. prior to joining us, mr. mlotek was a partner in the law firm of proskauer rose llp, counsel to us, specializing in mergers and acquisitions, corporate reorganizations and tax law from 1989 to 1994. steven paladino has been our executive vice president and chief financial officer since 2000. prior to holding his current position, mr. paladino was senior vice president and chief financial officer from 1993 to 2000 and has been a director since 1992. from 1990 to 1992, mr. paladino served as vice president and treasurer and from 1987 to 1990 served as corporate controller. before joining us, mr. paladino was employed in public accounting for seven years, most recently with the international accounting firm of bdo seidman, llp. mr. paladino is a certified public accountant. michael racioppi has been senior vice president, chief merchandising officer since january 2008. prior to holding his current position, mr. racioppi was president of the medical division from 2000 to january 2008 and interim president from 1999 to 2000, and corporate vice president from 1994 to january 2008. mr. racioppi served as senior director, corporate merchandising from 1992 to 1994. before joining us in 1992, mr. racioppi was employed by ketchum distributors, inc. as the vice president of purchasing and marketing. michael zack has been president of our international group since march 2006. mr. zack held the position of senior vice president of our international group from 1989 to march 2006. mr. zack was employed by polymer technology (a subsidiary of bausch lomb) as vice president of international operations from 1984 to 1989 and by gruenenthal gmbh as manager of international subsidiaries from 1975 to 1984. 13 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the healthcare products distribution industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully. we compete with numerous companies, including several major manufacturers and distributors. some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, which could allow them to compete more successfully. most of our products are available from several sources and our customers tend to have relationships with several distributors. competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market particular products, which we would then be unable to market. manufacturers also could increase their efforts to sell directly to end-users and thereby eliminate or reduce our role and that of other distributors. industry consolidation among healthcare products distributors, the unavailability of products, whether due to our inability to gain access to products or to interruptions in supply from manufacturers, or the emergence of new competitors also could increase competition. in the future, we may be unable to compete successfully and competitive pressures may reduce our revenues. the healthcare industry is experiencing changes that could adversely affect our business. the healthcare industry is highly regulated and subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. in recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including the reduction of spending budgets by government and private insurance programs, such as medicare, medicaid and corporate health insurance plans; pressures relating to potential healthcare reform; trends toward managed care; consolidation of healthcare distribution companies; consolidation of healthcare manufacturers; collective purchasing arrangements among office-based healthcare practitioners; and changes in reimbursements to customers. both our own profit margins and the profit margins of our customers may be adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services or changing the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined. if we are unable to react effectively to these and other changes in the healthcare industry, our operating results could be adversely affected. in addition, the enactment of any significant healthcare reforms could have a material adverse effect on our business. failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could negatively affect our business. our business is subject to requirements under various local, state, federal and international laws and regulations applicable to the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices. among the federal laws with which we must comply are the controlled substances act, the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, as amended and the prescription drug marketing act of 1987. such laws: regulate the storage and distribution, labeling, packaging, handling, reporting, record keeping, introduction, manufacturing and marketing of drugs and medical devices; subject us to inspection by the united states food and drug administration and the united states drug enforcement administration; regulate the transportation of certain of our products that are considered hazardous materials; require registration with the united states food and drug administration and the united states drug enforcement administration and various state agencies; require recordkeeping and documentation of transactions involving drug products; require us to manage returns of products that have been recalled and subject us to inspection of our recall procedures and activities; and impose reporting requirements if a pharmaceutical or medical device causes serious illness, injury or death. 14 table of contents applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations also may require us to meet various standards relating to, among other things, licensure or registration, sales and marketing practices, product integrity and supply tracking to the manufacturer of the product, personnel, privacy of health or other personal information and the importation and exportation of products. our business also is subject to requirements of similar and other foreign governmental laws and regulations affecting our operations abroad. the failure to comply with any of these regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or the imposition of any additional laws and regulations, could negatively affect our business. there can be no assurance that current government regulations will not adversely affect our business. the costs to us associated with complying with the various applicable statutes and regulations, as they now exist and as they may be modified, could be material. allegations by a governmental body that we have not complied with these laws could have a material adverse impact on our businesses. if it is determined that we have not complied with these laws, or if we enter into settlement agreements to resolve allegations of non-compliance, we could be required to make settlement payments or be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the loss of licenses or our ability to participate in government healthcare programs. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse impact on our businesses. we believe that the healthcare services industry will continue to be subject to extensive domestic and foreign government regulation and that we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance with the laws and regulations. if we fail to comply with laws and regulations in respect to healthcare fraud, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. we are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal and state laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud. the federal government continues to strengthen its position and scrutiny over practices involving healthcare fraud affecting government healthcare programs. our relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers subject our business to laws and regulations on fraud and abuse which, among other things, (i) prohibit persons from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient for treatment or to induce the ordering, purchasing, leasing or arranging for or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing of items or services that are in any way paid for by government-sponsored healthcare programs and (ii) impose a number of restrictions upon referring physicians and providers of designated health services under government healthcare programs. while we believe that we are substantially compliant with all applicable laws, many of the regulations applicable to us are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts. they may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses or our ability to participate in federal and state healthcare programs. our international operations are subject to inherent risks that could adversely affect our operating results. international operations are subject to risks that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the risks that our international operations are subject to include, among other things: difficulties and costs relating to staffing and managing foreign operations; difficulties in establishing channels of distribution; fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies; longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions; repatriation of cash from our foreign operations to the united states; regulatory requirements; 15 table of contents unexpected difficulties in importing or exporting our products; imposition of import/export duties, quotas, sanctions or penalties; and unexpected regulatory, economic and political changes in foreign markets. we experience fluctuations in quarterly earnings. as a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. our business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly fluctuations. net sales and operating profits generally have been higher in the third and fourth quarters due to the timing of sales of seasonal products (including influenza vaccine, equipment and software products), purchasing patterns of office-based healthcare practitioners and year-end promotions. net sales and operating profits generally have been lower in the first quarter, primarily due to increased sales in the prior two quarters. quarterly results may also be adversely affected by a variety of other factors, including: costs of developing new applications and services; costs related to acquisitions and/or integrations of technologies or businesses; timing and amount of sales and marketing expenditures; loss of sales representatives; general economic conditions, as well as those specific to the healthcare industry and related industries; timing of the release of functions of our technology-related products and services; our success in establishing or maintaining business relationships; changes in accounting principles; product demand and availability or recalls by manufacturers; exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury; and increases in the cost of shipping or service trouble with our third-party shippers. any change in one or more of these or other factors could cause our annual or quarterly operating results to fluctuate. if our operating results do not meet market expectations, our stock price may decline. because substantially all of the products that we distribute are not manufactured by us, we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture and supply of substantially all of our products. we obtain substantially all of our products from third-party suppliers. generally, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to supply products to us. therefore, suppliers may not provide the products we need in the quantities we request. because we do not control the actual production of the products we sell, we may be subject to delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions outside of our control. in the event that any of our third-party suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to continue to provide the products in required volumes, we would need to identify and obtain acceptable replacement sources on a timely basis. there is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain such alternative sources of supply on a timely basis, if at all. an extended interruption in the supply of our products, including the supply of our influenza vaccine and any other high sales volume product, would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, which most likely would adversely affect the value of our common stock. 16 table of contents our expansion through acquisitions and joint ventures involves risks. we have expanded our domestic and international markets in part through acquisitions and joint ventures, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions and enter into joint ventures in the future. such transactions involve numerous risks, including possible adverse effects on our operating results or the market price of our common stock. some of our acquisitions and future acquisitions may also give rise to an obligation by us to make contingent payments or to satisfy certain repurchase obligations, which payments could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, integrating acquired businesses and joint ventures: may result in a loss of customers or product lines of the acquired businesses or joint ventures; requires significant management attention; and may place significant demands on our operations, information systems and financial resources. there can be no assurance that our future acquisitions or joint ventures will be successful. our ability to continue to successfully effect acquisitions and joint ventures will depend upon the following: the availability of suitable acquisition or joint venture candidates at acceptable prices; our ability to consummate such transactions, which could potentially be prohibited due to u.s. or foreign antitrust regulations; the availability of financing on acceptable terms, in the case of non-stock transactions; and the liquidity of our investments and our ability to raise capital could be affected by the financial credit markets. our acquisitions may not result in the benefits and revenue growth we expect. we are in the process of integrating companies that we acquired and assimilating the operations, services, products and personnel of each company with our management policies, procedures and strategies. we cannot be sure that we will achieve the benefits of revenue growth that we expect from these acquisitions or that we will not incur unforeseen additional costs or expenses in connection with these acquisitions. to effectively manage our expected future growth, we must continue to successfully manage our integration of these companies and continue to improve our operational systems, internal procedures, working capital management, financial and operational controls. if we fail in any of these areas, our business could be adversely affected. we face inherent risk of exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury. our business involves a risk of product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business, and from time to time we are named as a defendant in cases as a result of our distribution of pharmaceutical products, medical devices and other healthcare products. additionally, we own a majority interest in a company that manufactures dental implants and we are subject to the potential risk of product liability or other claims relating to the manufacture of products by that entity. one of the potential risks we face in the distribution of our products is liability resulting from counterfeit products infiltrating the supply chain. in addition, some of the products that we transport and sell are considered hazardous materials. the improper handling of such materials or accidents involving the transportation of such materials could subject us to liability. we have various insurance policies, including product liability insurance, covering risks and in amounts that we consider adequate. in many cases in which we have been sued in connection with products manufactured by others, the manufacturer of the product provides us with indemnification. there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost, or that indemnification agreements will provide us with adequate protection. a successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance or not covered by indemnification agreements, or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us, could have an adverse effect on our business. 17 table of contents our technology segment depends upon continued software and e-services product development, technical support and successful marketing. competition among companies supplying practice-management software and/or e-services is intense and increasing. our future sales of practice-management software and e-services will depend on, among other factors: the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs; our ability to enhance our products and services; and our ability to provide ongoing technical support. we cannot be sure that we will be successful in introducing and marketing new software, software enhancements or e-services, or that such software, software enhancements and e-services will be released on time or accepted by the market. our software and applicable e-services products, like software products generally, may contain undetected errors or bugs when introduced or as new versions are released. we cannot be sure that future problems with post-release software errors or bugs will not occur. any such defective software may result in increased expenses related to the software and could adversely affect our relationships with the customers using such software. we do not have any patents on our software or e-services, and rely upon copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as contractual and common law protections. we cannot provide assurance that such legal protections will be available or enforceable to protect our software or e-services products. our revenues depend on our relationships with capable sales personnel as well as key customers, suppliers and manufacturers of the products that we distribute. our future operating results depend on our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified sales personnel as well as key customers, suppliers and manufacturers. if we fail to maintain our existing relationships with such persons or fail to acquire relationships with such key persons in the future, our business may be adversely affected. our future success is substantially dependent upon our senior management. our future success is substantially dependent upon the efforts and abilities of members of our existing senior management, particularly stanley m. bergman, chairman and chief executive officer, among others. the loss of the services of mr. bergman could have a material adverse effect on our business. we have an employment agreement with mr. bergman. we do not currently have key man life insurance policies on any of our employees. competition for senior management is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel. increases in the cost of shipping or service trouble with our third-party shippers could harm our business. shipping is a significant expense in the operation of our business. we ship almost all of our orders through third party delivery services, and typically bear the cost of shipment. accordingly, any significant increase in shipping rates could have an adverse effect on our operating results. similarly, strikes or other service interruptions by those shippers could cause our operating expenses to rise and adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis. we may not be able to respond to technological change effectively. traditional healthcare supply and distribution relationships are being challenged by electronic online commerce solutions. our distribution business is characterized by rapid technological developments and intense competition. the continued advancement of online commerce will require us to cost-effectively adapt to changing technologies, to enhance existing services and to develop and introduce a variety of new services to address changing demands of consumers and our clients on a timely basis, particularly in response to competitive offerings. our inability to anticipate and effectively respond to changes on a timely basis could have an adverse effect on our business. 18 table of contents we are exposed to the risk of an increase in interest rates. in 2003, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to exchange our fixed-rate interest rates for variable interest rates payable on our $190.0 million senior notes. our fixed interest rates on the senior notes were 6.9% and 6.7% for the $130.0 million and $60.0 million senior notes, respectively. the variable rate is comprised of libor plus the spreads and resets on the interest due dates for the senior notes. as a result of these interest rate swap agreements, as well as our existing variable rate credit lines and loan agreements, we are exposed to risk from fluctuations in interest rates. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. a variety of factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including: the publication of earnings estimates or other research reports and speculation in the press or investment community; changes in our industry and competitors; our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and prospects; stock repurchases; any future issuances of our common stock, which may include primary offerings for cash, stock splits, issuances in connection with business acquisitions, restricted stock/units and the grant or exercise of stock options from time to time; the dilutive impact of convertible debt on our earnings per share; general market and economic conditions; and any outbreak or escalation of hostilities in areas where we do business. in addition, the nasdaq stock market can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies listed on nasdaq. broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. this type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources, which would have an adverse effect on our business. certain provisions in our governing documents and other documents to which we are a party may discourage third-party offers to acquire us that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price of their shares. the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, may discourage acquisition bids and may limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions, among other things: require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 60% of the shares of common stock entitled to vote to approve a merger, consolidation, or a sale, lease, transfer or exchange of all or substantially all of our assets; and require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our common stock entitled to vote to: remove a director; and to amend or repeal our by-laws, with certain limited exceptions. 19 table of contents in addition, our 1994 stock incentive plan, 1996 non-employee director stock incentive plan and 2001 non-employee director incentive plan provide for accelerated vesting of stock options upon a change in control, and certain agreements between us and our executive officers provide for increased severance payments if those executive officers are terminated without cause within two years after a change in control. we also have a stockholder rights plan that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us if our board of directors does not determine that the acquisition proposal is adequate and in the stockholders best interest. tax legislation initiatives could adversely affect our net earnings and tax liabilities. we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the united states federal, state and local governments, as well as foreign jurisdictions. from time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. there can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. in addition, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. although we believe that our historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks, which include changes in interest rates, as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates as measured against the u.s. dollar and each other, and changes to the credit markets. we attempt to minimize these risks by using interest rate swap agreements and foreign currency forward and swap contracts and through maintaining counter-party credit limits. these hedging activities provide only limited protection against interest rate and currency exchange and credit risks. factors that could influence the effectiveness of our programs include volatility of the interest rate and currency markets and availability of hedging instruments and liquidity of the credit markets. all interest rate swap and foreign currency forward and swap contracts that we enter into are components of hedging programs and are entered into for the sole purpose of hedging an existing or anticipated interest rate and currency exposure. we do not enter into such contracts for speculative purposes. we manage our credit risks by diversifying our investments, maintaining a strong balance sheet and having multiple sources of capital. interest rate swap agreements we have fixed rate senior notes of $130.0 million at 6.9% and $60.0 million at 6.7%. during 2003, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to exchange these fixed interest rates for variable interest rates. the variable rates are comprised of libor plus the spreads and reset on the interest due dates for the senior notes. as a result of these interest rate swap agreements, as well as our existing variable rate credit lines and loan agreements, we are exposed to risk from changes in interest rates. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $1.9 million. as of december 29, 2007, the fair value of our interest rate swap agreements recorded in other current and non-current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet was $1.2 million, which represented the amount that would be paid upon unwinding the interest rate swap agreements based on market conditions at that time. changes in the fair value of these interest rate swap agreements are reflected as an adjustment to current and non-current assets or liabilities with an offsetting adjustment to the carrying value of the $190.0 million notes as such hedges are deemed fully effective. 45 table of contents foreign currency agreements the value of certain foreign currencies as compared to the u.s. dollar may affect our financial results. fluctuations in exchange rates may positively or negatively affect our revenues, gross margins, operating expenses, and retained earnings, all of which are expressed in u.s. dollars. where we deem it prudent, we engage in hedging programs using primarily foreign currency forward and swap contracts aimed at limiting the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on earnings. we purchase short-term (i.e., 12 months or less) foreign currency forward and swap contracts to protect against currency exchange risks associated with long-term intercompany loans due from our international subsidiaries and the payment of merchandise purchases to foreign suppliers. we do not hedge the translation of foreign currency profits into u.s. dollars, as we regard this as an accounting exposure, not an economic exposure. as of december 29, 2007, we had outstanding foreign currency forward and swap contracts with notional amounts of $427.7 million, of which $356.3 million related to intercompany debt and $71.4 million related to the purchase of merchandise from foreign suppliers. the contracts hedge currency fluctuations against the u.s. dollar for euros ($252.2 million), british pounds ($123.8 million), australian dollars ($34.7 million), canadian dollars ($8.5 million), swiss francs ($6.0 million) and new zealand dollars ($2.5 million). in addition, our international business entered into hedges against currency fluctuations relative to local functional currencies. the notional amount of such contracts was $87.8 million. a hypothetical 5% change of the value of the u.s. dollar would change the fair value of our foreign currency exchange agreements by $18.8 million. as of december 29, 2007, the fair value of our foreign currency exchange agreements, which expire through december 18, 2008, recorded in other current liabilities was $3.7 million, as determined by quoted market prices. for the year ended december 29, 2007, we had realized net gains of $0.8 million and unrealized gains of $1.1 million relating to such agreements. short-term investments with respect to our cash equivalents, available-for-sale securities, short-term investments and derivative instruments, our credit risk is limited due to our counter-parties being high-credit quality financial institutions. as a risk management policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure by utilizing numerous different counter-parties. 46 table of contentsmarket risks................................................... 27 market risks the company is exposed to market risks, which include changes in u.s. and international interest rates as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates as measured against the u.s. dollar and each other. the company attempts to reduce these risks by utilizing financial instruments, pursuant to company policies. forward foreign currency contracts the value of certain foreign currencies as compared to the u.s. dollar may affect the company's financial results. changes in exchange rates may positively or negatively affect the company's revenues (as expressed in u.s. dollars), gross margins, operating expenses, and retained earnings. where the company deems it prudent, it engages in hedging programs aimed at limiting, in part, the impact of currency fluctuations. using primarily forward exchange contracts, the company hedges those transactions that, when remeasured according to accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, may impact its statement of income. from time to time, the company purchases short-term forward exchange contracts to protect against currency exchange risks associated with the ultimate repayment of intercompany loans due from the company's international subsidiaries and the payment of merchandise purchases to foreign vendors. as of december 29, 2001, the company had outstanding foreign currency forward contracts aggregating $46.7 million, of which $44.1 million related to intercompany debt and $2.6 million related to the purchase of merchandise from foreign vendors. the contracts hedge against currency fluctuations of british pounds ($24.1 million), euros ($21.1 million) australian dollars ($1.3 million), and new zealand dollars ($0.2 million). as of december 29, 2001 the fair value of these contracts, which are determined by quoted market prices and expire through november 2002, was not material. for the year ended december 29, 2001, the company recognized an immaterial loss relating to its foreign currency forward contracts. these hedging activities provide only limited protection against currency exchange risks. factors that could impact the effectiveness of the company's programs include volatility of the currency markets, and availability of hedging instruments. all currency contracts that are entered into by the company are components of hedging programs and are entered into for the sole purpose of hedging an existing or anticipated currency exposure, not for speculation. although the company maintains these programs to reduce the impact of changes in currency exchange rates, when the u. s. dollar sustains a strengthening position against currencies in which the company sells products and services, or a weakening exchange rate against currencies in which the company incurs costs, the company's revenues or costs are adversely affected. interest rates the company is exposed to risk from changes in interest rates from borrowings under certain variable bank credit lines and loan agreements. the company has fixed rate debt of $130.0 million at 6.94% and $100.0 million at 6.66%. if the remaining outstanding debt at december 29, 2001 of $31.4 million was the average balance for the following twelve month period and the company experienced a 1% increase in average interest rates, the interest expense for that period would have increased by $0.3 million. based upon current economic conditions, the company does not believe interest rates will increase substantially in the near future. as a result, the company does not believe it is necessary to hedge its exposure against potential future interest rate increases. 27market risks................................................................ 28 market risks we are exposed to market risks, which include changes in u.s. and international interest rates, as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates as measured against the u.s. dollar and each other. we attempt to reduce these risks by utilizing financial instruments that are consistent with our internal policies. forward foreign currency contracts the value of certain foreign currencies as compared to the u.s. dollar may affect our financial results. changes in exchange rates may positively or negatively affect our revenues (as expressed in u.s. dollars), gross margins, operating expenses, and retained earnings. where we deem it prudent, we engage in hedging programs aimed at limiting, in part, the impact of currency fluctuations. using primarily forward exchange contracts, we hedge those transactions that, when remeasured according to accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, may impact our statement of income. from time to time, we purchase short-term forward exchange contracts to protect against currency exchange risks associated with intercompany loans, of a long-term investment nature, due from our international subsidiaries and the payment of merchandise purchases to foreign vendors. as of december 28, 2002, we had outstanding foreign currency forward contracts aggregating $78.0 million, of which $73.6 million 28 related to intercompany debt and $4.4 million related to the purchase of merchandise from foreign vendors. the contracts hedge against currency fluctuations of british pounds ($38.1 million), euros ($34.9 million), australian dollars ($3.9 million), swiss francs ($0.8 million), japanese yen ($0.2 million), and new zealand dollars ($0.1 million). as of december 28, 2002, the fair value of these contracts, which are determined by quoted market prices and expire through january 2004, was not material. for the year ended december 28, 2002, we recognized an immaterial loss relating to our foreign currency forward contracts. these hedging activities provide only limited protection against currency exchange risks. factors that could impact the effectiveness of our programs include volatility of the currency markets and availability of hedging instruments. all currency contracts that we enter into are components of hedging programs and are entered into for the sole purpose of hedging an existing or anticipated currency exposure, not for speculation. although we maintain these programs to reduce the impact of changes in currency exchange rates, when the u.s. dollar sustains a strengthening position against currencies in which we sell products and services, or a weakening exchange rate against currencies in which we incur costs, our revenues or costs are adversely affected. interest rates we are exposed to risk from changes in interest rates from borrowings under certain variable bank credit lines and loan agreements. we have fixed rate debt of $130.0 million at 6.94% and $100.0 million at 6.66%. if the remaining outstanding debt at december 28, 2002 of $20.0 million was the average balance for the following twelve month period and we experienced a 1% increase in average interest rates, the interest expense for that period would have increased by $0.2 million. based upon current economic conditions, we do not believe interest rates will increase substantially in the near future. as a result, we do not believe that it is currently necessary to hedge our exposure against potential future interest rate increases. risk factors stockholders and investors should carefully consider the risks described below and other information in this annual report. our business, financial condition and operating results, and the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected if any of these risks materialize. - the healthcare products distribution industry is highly competitive, and we compete with numerous companies, including major manufacturers and distributors that have greater financial and other resources than us. competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market particular products or manufacturers could increase their efforts to sell directly to end-users, thereby bypassing distributors like us. consolidation among healthcare products distributors could result in existing competitors increasing their market position. in addition, unavailability of products, whether due to our inability to gain access to products or interruptions in supply of products from manufacturers, could adversely affect our operating results. - in recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including the reduction of spending budgets by government and private insurance programs, such as medicare, medicaid and corporate health insurance plans; trends toward managed care; consolidation of healthcare distribution companies; electronic commerce; and collective purchasing arrangements among office-based healthcare practitioners. if we are unable to react effectively to these and other changes in the healthcare industry, our operating results could be adversely affected. - our technology segment, which primarily sells practice management software and other value-added products, depends upon continued product development, technical support and marketing. failures in these and related areas could adversely affect our results of operations. 29 - our business is subject to requirements under various local, state, federal and foreign governmental laws and regulations applicable to the manufacture and distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices, including the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, the prescription drug marketing act of 1987 and the controlled substances act. there is no assurance that current or future government regulations will not adversely affect our business. - our business involves a risk of product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business, and from time to time we are named as a defendant in cases as a result of our distribution of pharmaceutical and other healthcare products. we have insurance policies, including product liability insurance, and in many cases we have indemnification rights from manufacturers with respect to the products we distribute. there is no assurance that insurance coverage or manufacturers' indemnity will be available in all of the pending or any future cases brought against us, or that an unfavorable result in any such case will not adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. - our business is dependent upon our ability to hire and retain qualified sales representatives, service specialists and other sales agents. due to the relationships developed between our field sales representatives and their customers, upon the departure of a sales representative we face the risk of losing the representative's customers, especially if the representative becomes an employee of one of our competitors. - our business has been subject to seasonal and other quarterly fluctuations. net sales and operating profits generally have been higher in the fourth quarter due to purchasing patterns of office-based healthcare practitioners and year end promotions. net sales and operating profits generally have been lower in the first quarter, primarily due to increased purchases in the prior quarter. - our international operations are subject to inherent risks, which could adversely affect our operating results. these risks include difficulties in opening and managing foreign offices and distribution centers; difficulties in establishing channels of distribution; fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies; longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions; import/export duties and quotas; and unexpected regulatory, economic and political changes in foreign markets. - our expansion through acquisitions and/or joint ventures could result in a loss of customers, diversion of management attention and increased demands on our operations, information systems and financial resources. - we rely on third parties to ship products to our customers. increases in shipping rates or interruptions of service could adversely affect our operating results. - changes in e-commerce could affect our business relationships and could require significant resources. the evolution of on-line commerce, including business-to-business exchanges, will require us to continuously improve the performance, security, features and reliability of internet content and technology. 30risk factors 13 risk factors&rdquo; for a discussion of additional regulatory developments that may affect our results of operations and financial condition. proprietary rights we hold trademarks relating to the &ldquo;henry schein&rdquo; name and logo, as well as certain other trademarks. pursuant to agreements executed in connection with our reorganization in 1994, both henry schein, inc. and schein pharmaceutical, inc. (which was acquired by watson pharmaceuticals, inc. in 2000), a company previously engaged in the manufacture and distribution of multi-source pharmaceutical products, are entitled to use the &ldquo;schein&rdquo; name in connection with their respective businesses, but schein pharmaceutical, inc. must always use &ldquo;schein&rdquo; in combination with the word &ldquo;pharmaceuticals&rdquo; and is not entitled to use the name &ldquo;henry schein&rdquo; or to use &ldquo;schein&rdquo; alone or with any other word (other than &ldquo;pharmaceuticals&rdquo;). we intend to protect our trademarks to the fullest extent practicable. employees as of december 27, 2008, we employed more than 12,500 full-time employees, including approximately 1,425 telesales representatives, 2,775 field sales consultants, including equipment sales specialists, 2,325 warehouse employees, 500 computer programmers and technicians, 1,200 management employees and 4,325 office, clerical and administrative employees. approximately 217 or 1.7% of our employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements. we believe that our relations with our employees are excellent. available information we make available free of charge through our internet web site, www.henryschein.com , our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, statements of beneficial ownership of securities on forms 3, 4 and 5 and amendments to these reports and statements filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) and section 16 of the securities exchange act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the sec. the above information is also available at the sec&rsquo;s office of investor education and advocacy at united states securities and exchange commission, 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549-0213 or obtainable by calling the sec at (800) 732-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet web site at www.sec.gov , where the above information can be viewed. 10 our principal executive offices are located at 135 duryea road, melville, new york 11747, and our telephone number is (631) 843-5500. unless the context specifically requires otherwise, the terms the &ldquo;company,&rdquo; &ldquo;henry schein,&rdquo; &ldquo;we,&rdquo; &ldquo;us&rdquo; and &ldquo;our&rdquo; mean henry schein, inc., a delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. executive officers of the registrant the following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers: name age position stanley m. bergman 59 chairman, chief executive officer, director gerald a. benjamin 56 executive vice president, chief administrative officer, director james p. breslawski 55 president, chief operating officer, director leonard a. david 60 senior vice president, chief compliance officer james harding 53 senior vice president, chief technology officer stanley komaroff 73 senior advisor mark e. mlotek 53 executive vice president, corporate business development, director steven paladino 51 executive vice president, chief financial officer, director michael racioppi 54 senior vice president, chief merchandising officer michael zack 56 president, international group stanley m. bergman has been our chairman and chief executive officer since 1989 and a director since 1982. mr. bergman held the position of president from 1989 to 2005. mr. bergman held the position of executive vice president from 1985 to 1989 and vice president of finance and administration from 1980 to 1985. gerald a. benjamin has been our executive vice president and chief administrative officer since 2000 and a director since 1994. prior to holding his current position, mr. benjamin was senior vice president of administration and customer satisfaction since 1993. mr. benjamin was vice president of distribution operations from 1990 to 1992 and director of materials management from 1988 to 1990. before joining us in 1988, mr. benjamin was employed for 13 years in various management positions at est&eacute;e lauder, inc., where his last position was director of materials planning and control. james p. breslawski has been our president and chief operating officer since 2005 and a director since 1992. mr. breslawski held the position of executive vice president and president of u.s. dental from 1990 to 2005, with primary responsibility for the north american dental group. between 1980 and 1990, mr. breslawski held various positions with us, including chief financial officer, vice president of finance and administration and controller. leonard a. david has been our senior vice president and chief compliance officer since 2006. mr. david held the position of vice president and chief compliance officer from 2005 to 2006. mr. david held the position of vice president of human resources and special counsel from 1995 to 2005. mr. david held the position of vice president, general counsel and secretary from 1990 through 1994 and practiced corporate and business law for eight years prior to joining us. james harding has been our chief technology officer since 2005 and senior vice president since 2001. prior to holding his current position, mr. harding was chief information officer since 2001, with primary responsibility for worldwide information technology. 11 stanley komaroff has been our senior advisor since 2003. prior to joining us, mr. komaroff was a partner for 35 years in the law firm of proskauer rose llp, counsel to us. he served as chairman of that firm from 1991 to 1999. mark e. mlotek has been executive vice president of our corporate business development group since 2004 and was senior vice president of corporate business development from 2000 to 2004. prior to that, mr. mlotek was vice president, general counsel and secretary from 1994 to 1999 and became a director in 1995. prior to joining us, mr. mlotek was a partner in the law firm of proskauer rose llp, counsel to us, specializing in mergers and acquisitions, corporate reorganizations and tax law from 1989 to 1994. steven paladino has been our executive vice president and chief financial officer since 2000. prior to holding his current position, mr. paladino was senior vice president and chief financial officer from 1993 to 2000 and has been a director since 1992. from 1990 to 1992, mr. paladino served as vice president and treasurer and from 1987 to 1990 served as corporate controller. before joining us, mr. paladino was employed in public accounting for seven years, most recently with the international accounting firm of bdo seidman, llp. mr. paladino is a certified public accountant. michael racioppi has been our senior vice president, chief merchandising officer since 2008. prior to holding his current position, mr. racioppi was president of the medical division from 2000 to 2008 and interim president from 1999 to 2000, and corporate vice president from 1994 to 2008. mr. racioppi served as senior director, corporate merchandising from 1992 to 1994. before joining us in 1992, mr. racioppi was employed by ketchum distributors, inc. as the vice president of purchasing and marketing. michael zack has been president of our international group since 2006. mr. zack held the position of senior vice president of our international group from 1989 to 2006. mr. zack was employed by polymer technology (a subsidiary of bausch &amp; lomb) as vice president of international operations from 1984 to 1989 and by gruenenthal gmbh as manager of international subsidiaries from 1975 to 1984. 12 item 1a. risk factors declining economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. disruptions in the financial markets and other macro-economic challenges currently affecting the economy and the economic outlook of the united states and other parts of the world could adversely impact our customers and vendors, which could adversely affect us. recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending have caused and may continue to cause customers to reduce, modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may cause vendors to reduce their output or change their terms of sales. we generally sell products to customers with payment terms. if customers&rsquo; cash flow or operating and financial performance deteriorates, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment to us. likewise, for similar reasons vendors may restrict credit or impose different payment terms. any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for our products and/or services or any demands by vendors for different payment terms may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. disruptions in the financial market may adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us. our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. recent disruptions in the financial markets, including the bankruptcy or restructuring of a number of financial institutions, reduced lending activity, decreased liquidity and higher costs in the commercial paper market, may adversely affect the availability and cost of credit. there can be no assurances that recent government initiatives in response to the disruptions in the financial markets will stabilize the markets in general or increase liquidity and the availability of credit to us. the healthcare products distribution industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully. we compete with numerous companies, including several major manufacturers and distributors. some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, which could allow them to compete more successfully. most of our products are available from several sources and our customers tend to have relationships with several distributors. competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market particular products, which we would then be unable to market. manufacturers also could increase their efforts to sell directly to end-users and thereby eliminate or reduce our role and that of other distributors. industry consolidation among healthcare products distributors, price competition, the unavailability of products, whether due to our inability to gain access to products or to interruptions in supply from manufacturers, or the emergence of new competitors also could increase competition. in the future, we may be unable to compete successfully and competitive pressures may reduce our revenues. the healthcare industry is experiencing changes that could adversely affect our business. the healthcare industry is highly regulated and subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. in recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including the reduction of spending budgets by government and private insurance programs, such as medicare, medicaid and corporate health insurance plans; pressures relating to potential healthcare reform; trends toward managed care; consolidation of healthcare distribution companies; consolidation of healthcare manufacturers; collective purchasing arrangements among office-based healthcare practitioners; and changes in reimbursements to customers. both our own profit margins and the profit margins of our customers may be adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services or changing the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined. if we are unable to react effectively to these and other changes in the healthcare industry, our operating results could be adversely affected. in addition, the enactment of any significant healthcare reforms could have a material adverse effect on our business. 13 failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could negatively affect our business. our business is subject to requirements under various local, state, federal and international laws and regulations applicable to the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices. among the federal laws with which we must comply are the controlled substances act, the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, as amended and the prescription drug marketing act of 1987. such laws: &bull; regulate the storage and distribution, labeling, packaging, handling, reporting, record keeping, introduction, manufacturing and marketing of drugs and medical devices; &bull; subject us to inspection by the united states food and drug administration and the united states drug enforcement administration; &bull; regulate the transportation of certain of our products that are considered hazardous materials; &bull; require registration with the united states food and drug administration and the united states drug enforcement administration and various state agencies; &bull; require record keeping and documentation of transactions involving drug products; &bull; require us to manage returns of products that have been recalled and subject us to inspection of our recall procedures and activities; and &bull; impose reporting requirements if a pharmaceutical or medical device causes serious illness, injury or death. applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations also may require us to meet various standards relating to, among other things, licensure or registration, sales and marketing practices, product integrity and supply tracking to the manufacturer of the product, personnel, privacy of health or other personal information and the importation and exportation of products. our business also is subject to requirements of similar and other foreign governmental laws and regulations affecting our operations abroad. the failure to comply with any of these regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or the imposition of any additional laws and regulations, could negatively affect our business. there can be no assurance that current government regulations will not adversely affect our business. the costs to us associated with complying with the various applicable statutes and regulations, as they now exist and as they may be modified, could be material. allegations by a governmental body that we have not complied with these laws could have a material adverse impact on our businesses. if it is determined that we have not complied with these laws, we are potentially subject to penalties including warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, mandatory recall of product, seizure of product and injunction, and suspension or limitation of product sale and distribution. if we enter into settlement agreements to resolve allegations of non-compliance, we could be required to make settlement payments or be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the loss of licenses. non-compliance with government requirements could adversely affect our ability to participate in government healthcare programs. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse impact on our businesses. we believe that the healthcare services industry will continue to be subject to extensive domestic and foreign government regulation and that we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance with the laws and regulations. if we fail to comply with laws and regulations in respect to healthcare fraud, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. we are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal and state laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud. the federal government continues to strengthen its position and scrutiny over practices involving healthcare fraud affecting government healthcare programs. our relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers subject our business to laws and regulations on fraud and abuse which, among other things, (i) prohibit persons from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient for treatment or to induce the ordering, purchasing, leasing or arranging for or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing of items or services that are in any 14 way paid for by government-sponsored healthcare programs and (ii) impose a number of restrictions upon referring physicians and providers of designated health services under government healthcare programs. while we believe that we are substantially compliant with all applicable laws, many of the regulations applicable to us are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts. they may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses or our ability to participate in federal and state healthcare programs. our international operations are subject to inherent risks that could adversely affect our operating results. international operations are subject to risks that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the risks that our international operations are subject to include, among other things: &bull; difficulties and costs relating to staffing and managing foreign operations; &bull; difficulties in establishing channels of distribution; &bull; fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies; &bull; longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions; &bull; repatriation of cash from our foreign operations to the united states; &bull; regulatory requirements; &bull; unexpected difficulties in importing or exporting our products; &bull; imposition of import/export duties, quotas, sanctions or penalties; and &bull; unexpected regulatory, economic and political changes in foreign markets. we experience fluctuations in quarterly earnings. as a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. our business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly fluctuations. net sales and operating profits generally have been higher in the third and fourth quarters due to the timing of sales of seasonal products (including influenza vaccine, equipment and software products), purchasing patterns of office-based healthcare practitioners and year-end promotions. net sales and operating profits generally have been lower in the first quarter, primarily due to increased sales in the prior two quarters. quarterly results may also be adversely affected by a variety of other factors, including: &bull; costs of developing new applications and services; &bull; costs related to acquisitions and/or integrations of technologies or businesses; &bull; timing and amount of sales and marketing expenditures; &bull; loss of sales representatives; &bull; general economic conditions, as well as those specific to the healthcare industry and related industries; &bull; timing of the release of upgrades and enhancements to our technology-related products and services; &bull; our success in establishing or maintaining business relationships; &bull; restructuring charges; &bull; changes in accounting principles; &bull; unexpected difficulties in developing and manufacturing products; 15 &bull; product demand and availability or recalls by manufacturers; &bull; exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury; and &bull; increases in the cost of shipping or service issues with our third-party shippers. any change in one or more of these or other factors could cause our annual or quarterly operating results to fluctuate. if our operating results do not meet market expectations, our stock price may decline. because substantially all of the products that we distribute are not manufactured by us, we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture and supply of substantially all of our products. we obtain substantially all of our products from third-party suppliers. generally, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to supply products to us. therefore, suppliers may not provide the products we need in the quantities we request. because we do not control the actual production of the products we sell, we may be subject to delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions outside of our control. in the event that any of our third-party suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to continue to provide the products in required volumes, we would need to identify and obtain acceptable replacement sources on a timely basis. there is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain such alternative sources of supply on a timely basis, if at all. an extended interruption in the supply of our products, including the supply of our influenza vaccine and any other high sales volume product, would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, which most likely would adversely affect the value of our common stock. our expansion through acquisitions and joint ventures involves risks. we have expanded our domestic and international markets in part through acquisitions and joint ventures, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions and enter into joint ventures in the future. such transactions involve numerous risks, including possible adverse effects on our operating results or the market price of our common stock. some of our acquisitions and future acquisitions may also give rise to an obligation by us to make contingent payments or to satisfy certain repurchase obligations, which payments could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, integrating acquired businesses and joint ventures: &bull; may result in a loss of customers or product lines of the acquired businesses or joint ventures; &bull; requires significant management attention; and &bull; may place significant demands on our operations, information systems and financial resources. there can be no assurance that our future acquisitions or joint ventures will be successful. our ability to continue to successfully effect acquisitions and joint ventures will depend upon the following: &bull; the availability of suitable acquisition or joint venture candidates at acceptable prices; &bull; our ability to consummate such transactions, which could potentially be prohibited due to u.s. or foreign antitrust regulations; &bull; the availability of financing on acceptable terms, in the case of non-stock transactions; and &bull; the liquidity of our investments and our ability to raise capital could be affected by the financial credit markets. our acquisitions may not result in the benefits and revenue growth we expect. we are in the process of integrating companies that we acquired and including the operations, services, products and personnel of each company within our management policies, procedures and strategies. we cannot be sure that we will achieve the benefits of revenue growth that we expect from these acquisitions or that we will not incur unforeseen additional costs or expenses in connection with these acquisitions. to effectively manage our expected future growth, we must continue to successfully manage our integration of 16 these companies and continue to improve our operational systems, internal procedures, working capital management, financial and operational controls. if we fail in any of these areas, our business could be adversely affected. we face inherent risk of exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury. our business involves a risk of product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business, and from time to time we are named as a defendant in cases as a result of our distribution of pharmaceutical products, medical devices, bone regeneration and other healthcare products. additionally, we own a majority interest in companies that manufacture certain dental products. as a result, we are subject to the potential risk of product liability or other claims relating to the manufacture and distribution of products by those entities. one of the potential risks we face in the distribution of our products is liability resulting from counterfeit or tainted products infiltrating the supply chain. in addition, some of the products that we transport and sell are considered hazardous materials. the improper handling of such materials or accidents involving the transportation of such materials could subject us to liability. we have various insurance policies, including product liability insurance, covering risks and in amounts that we consider adequate. in many cases in which we have been sued in connection with products manufactured by others, the manufacturer of the product provides us with indemnification. there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost, or that indemnification agreements will provide us with adequate protection. a successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance or not covered by indemnification agreements, or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us, could have an adverse effect on our business. our technology segment depends upon continued software and e-services product development, technical support and successful marketing. competition among companies supplying practice management software and/or e-services is intense and increasing. our future sales of practice management software and e-services will depend on, among other factors: &bull; the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs; &bull; our ability to enhance our products and services; and &bull; our ability to provide ongoing technical support. we cannot be sure that we will be successful in introducing and marketing new software, software enhancements or e-services, or that such software, software enhancements and e-services will be released on time or accepted by the market. our software and applicable e-services products, like software products generally, may contain undetected errors or bugs when introduced or as new versions are released. we cannot be sure that future problems with post-release software errors or bugs will not occur. any such defective software may result in increased expenses related to the software and could adversely affect our relationships with the customers using such software. we do not have any patents on our software or e-services, and rely upon copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as contractual and common law protections. we cannot provide assurance that such legal protections will be available or enforceable to protect our software or e-services products. our revenues depend on our relationships with capable sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers of the products that we distribute. our future operating results depend on our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers. if we fail to maintain our existing relationships with such persons or fail to acquire relationships with such key persons in the future, our business may be adversely affected. 17 our future success is substantially dependent upon our senior management. our future success is substantially dependent upon the efforts and abilities of members of our existing senior management, particularly stanley m. bergman, chairman and chief executive officer, among others. the loss of the services of mr. bergman could have a material adverse effect on our business. we have an employment agreement with mr. bergman. we do not currently have &ldquo;key man&rdquo; life insurance policies on any of our employees. competition for senior management is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel. increases in the cost of shipping or service issues with our third-party shippers could harm our business. shipping is a significant expense in the operation of our business. we ship almost all of our orders through third-party delivery services, and typically bear the cost of shipment. accordingly, any significant increase in shipping rates could have an adverse effect on our operating results. similarly, strikes or other service interruptions by those shippers could cause our operating expenses to rise and adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis. we may not be able to respond to technological change effectively. traditional healthcare supply and distribution relationships are being challenged by electronic online commerce solutions. our distribution business is characterized by rapid technological developments and intense competition. the continued advancement of online commerce will require us to cost-effectively adapt to changing technologies, to enhance existing services and to develop and introduce a variety of new services to address changing demands of consumers and our clients on a timely basis, particularly in response to competitive offerings. our inability to anticipate and effectively respond to changes on a timely basis could have an adverse effect on our business. we are exposed to the risk of an increase in interest rates. in 2003, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to exchange our fixed-rate interest rates for variable interest rates payable on our $230.0 million senior notes. our fixed interest rates on the senior notes were 6.9% and 6.7% for the remaining $130.0 million and the remaining $40.0 million senior notes, respectively. the variable rate is comprised of libor plus spreads and resets on the interest due dates for the senior notes. as a result of these interest rate swap agreements, as well as our existing variable rate credit lines and loan agreements, we are exposed to risk from fluctuations in interest rates. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. a variety of factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including: &bull; the publication of earnings estimates or other research reports and speculation in the press or investment community; &bull; changes in our industry and competitors; &bull; our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and prospects; &bull; stock repurchases; &bull; any future issuances of our common stock, which may include primary offerings for cash, stock splits, issuances in connection with business acquisitions, restricted stock/units and the grant or exercise of stock options from time to time; &bull; the dilutive impact of convertible debt on our earnings per share; &bull; general market and economic conditions; and &bull; any outbreak or escalation of hostilities in areas where we do business. 18 in addition, the nasdaq stock market can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies listed on nasdaq. broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company&rsquo;s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. this type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management&rsquo;s attention and resources, which would have an adverse effect on our business. certain provisions in our governing documents and other documents to which we are a party may discourage third-party offers to acquire us that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price of their shares. the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, may discourage acquisition bids and may limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions, among other things: &bull; require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 60% of the shares of common stock entitled to vote to approve a merger, consolidation, or a sale, lease, transfer or exchange of all or substantially all of our assets; and &bull; require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our common stock entitled to vote to: &bull; remove a director; and &bull; to amend or repeal our by-laws, with certain limited exceptions. in addition, our 1994 stock incentive plan, 1996 non-employee director stock incentive plan and 2001 non-employee director incentive plan provide for accelerated vesting of stock options upon a change in control, and certain agreements between us and our executive officers provide for increased severance payments if those executive officers are terminated without cause by the company or if they terminate for good reason in each case, within two years after a change in control or within ninety days prior to the effective date of the change in control or after the first public announcement of the pendency of the change in control. tax legislation initiatives could adversely affect our net earnings and tax liabilities. we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the united states federal, state and local governments, as well as foreign jurisdictions. from time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. there can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. in addition, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. although we believe that our historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks, which include changes in interest rates, as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates as measured against the u.s. dollar and each other, and changes to the credit markets. we attempt to minimize these risks by using interest rate swap agreements and foreign currency forward and swap contracts and through maintaining counter-party credit limits. these hedging activities provide only limited protection against interest rate and currency exchange and credit risks. factors that could influence the effectiveness of our programs include volatility of the interest rate and currency markets and availability of hedging instruments and liquidity of the credit markets. all interest rate swap and foreign currency forward and swap contracts that we enter into are components of hedging programs and are entered into for the sole purpose of hedging an existing or anticipated interest rate and currency exposure. we do not enter into such contracts for speculative purposes. we manage our credit risks by diversifying our investments, maintaining a strong balance sheet and having multiple sources of capital. interest rate swap agreements we have fixed rate senior notes of $130.0 million at 6.9% and $40.0 million at 6.7%. during 2003, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to exchange these fixed interest rates for variable interest rates. the variable rates are comprised of libor plus spreads and reset on the interest due dates for the senior notes. as a result of these interest rate swap agreements, as well as our existing variable rate credit lines and loan agreements, we are exposed to risk from changes in interest rates. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $1.7 million. as of december 27, 2008, the fair value of our interest rate swap agreements recorded in other current and non-current assets in our consolidated balance sheet was $2.5 million, which represented the amount that would be received upon unwinding the interest rate swap agreements based on market conditions at that time. changes in the fair value of these interest rate swap agreements are reflected as an adjustment to current and non-current assets or liabilities with an offsetting adjustment to the carrying value of the $170.0 million notes as such hedges are deemed fully effective. foreign currency agreements the value of certain foreign currencies as compared to the u.s. dollar may affect our financial results. fluctuations in exchange rates may positively or negatively affect our revenues, gross margins, operating expenses, and retained earnings, all of which are expressed in u.s. dollars. where we deem it prudent, we engage in hedging programs using primarily foreign currency forward and swap contracts aimed at limiting the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on earnings. we purchase short-term (i.e., 12 months or less) foreign currency forward and swap contracts to protect against currency exchange risks associated with long-term intercompany loans due from our international subsidiaries and the payment of merchandise purchases to foreign suppliers. we do not hedge the translation of foreign currency profits into u.s. dollars, as we regard this as an accounting exposure, not an economic exposure. as of december 27, 2008, we had net outstanding foreign currency forward and swap contracts that hedge against currency fluctuations relative to local functional currencies, with notional amounts of $50.2 million, which were related to intercompany debt and the purchase of merchandise from foreign suppliers. the u.s. dollar based contracts of $93.8 million hedge currency fluctuations against the euros $69.7 million, british pounds $19.6 million, australian dollars $4.3 million, canadian dollars $1.1 million, swiss francs $(0.8) million and japanese yen $(0.1) million, which are offset by our international business whose notional amount of such contracts was $(43.6) million. a hypothetical 5% change of the value of the u.s. dollar would change the fair value of our foreign currency exchange agreements by $7.0 million. as of december 27, 2008, the fair value of our foreign currency exchange agreements, which expire through december 15, 2009, recorded in other current liabilities was $6.6 million, as determined by quoted market prices. for the year ended december 27, 2008, we had realized net losses of $2.4 million and unrealized gains of $0.6 million relating to such agreements. 46 short-term investments we limit our credit risk with respect to our cash equivalents, available-for-sale securities, short-term investments and derivative instruments, by monitoring the credit worthiness of the financial institutions who are the counter-parties to such financial instruments. as a risk management policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure by diversifying and utilizing numerous investment grade counter-parties. 47risk factors 15 risk factors declining economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. disruptions in the financial markets and other macro-economic uncertainties that affect the economy and the economic outlook of the united states and other parts of the world could adversely impact our customers and vendors, which could adversely affect us. recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending have caused and may continue to cause customers to reduce, modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may cause vendors to reduce their output or change their terms of sales. we generally sell products to customers with payment terms. if customers' cash flow or operating and financial performance deteriorates, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment to us. likewise, for similar reasons vendors may restrict credit or impose different payment terms. any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for our products and/or services or any demands by vendors for different payment terms may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. disruptions in the financial market may adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us. our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us. the healthcare products distribution industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully. we compete with numerous companies, including several major manufacturers and distributors. some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, which could allow them to compete more successfully. most of our products are available from several sources and our customers tend to have relationships with several distributors. competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market particular products, which we would then be unable to market. manufacturers also could increase their efforts to sell directly to end-users and thereby eliminate or reduce our role and that of other distributors. industry consolidation among healthcare products distributors, price competition, the unavailability of products, whether due to our inability to gain access to products or to interruptions in supply from manufacturers, or the emergence of new competitors also could increase competition. in the future, we may be unable to compete successfully and competitive pressures may reduce our revenues. the healthcare industry is experiencing changes that could adversely affect our business. the healthcare industry is highly regulated and subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. in recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including the reduction of spending budgets by government and private insurance programs, such as medicare, medicaid and corporate health insurance plans; pressures relating to potential healthcare reform; trends toward managed care; consolidation of healthcare distribution companies; consolidation of healthcare manufacturers; collective purchasing arrangements and consolidation among office-based healthcare practitioners; and changes in reimbursements to customers. both our own profit margins and the profit margins of our customers may be adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services or changing the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined. if we are unable to react effectively to these and other changes in the healthcare industry, our operating results could be adversely affected. in addition, the enactment of any significant healthcare reforms could have a material adverse effect on our business. 15 table of contents failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could negatively affect our business. our business is subject to requirements under various local, state, federal and international laws and regulations applicable to the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices, and human cells, tissue, and cellular and tissue-based products ( hct/p ). among the federal laws with which we must comply are the controlled substances act, the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, as amended, the prescription drug marketing act of 1987, and section 361 of the public health services act ( regulations to control communicable diseases ). among other things, such laws, and the regulations promulgated thereunder: regulate the storage and distribution, labeling, packaging, handling, reporting, record keeping, introduction, manufacturing and marketing of drugs, hct/p and medical devices; subject us to inspection by the united states food and drug administration and the united states drug enforcement administration; regulate the storage, transportation and disposal of certain of our products that are considered hazardous materials; require registration with the united states food and drug administration and the united states drug enforcement administration and various state agencies; require record keeping and documentation of transactions involving drug products; require us to design and operate a system to identify and report suspicious orders of controlled substances to the united states drug enforcement agency; require us to manage returns of products that have been recalled and subject us to inspection of our recall procedures and activities; and impose reporting requirements if a pharmaceutical, hct/p or medical device causes serious illness, injury or death. applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations also may require us to meet various standards relating to, among other things, licensure or registration, sales and marketing practices, product integrity and supply tracking to the manufacturer of the product, personnel, privacy and security of health or other personal information, installation, maintenance and repair of equipment, and the importation and exportation of products. our business also is subject to requirements of similar and other foreign governmental laws and regulations affecting our operations abroad. the united states food and drug administration and drug enforcement administration have recently increased their regulatory and enforcement activities. the failure to comply with any of these regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or the imposition of any additional laws and regulations, could negatively affect our business. there can be no assurance that current government regulations will not adversely affect our business. the costs to us associated with complying with the various applicable statutes and regulations, as they now exist and as they may be modified, could be material. allegations by a governmental body that we have not complied with these laws could have a material adverse impact on our businesses. if it is determined that we have not complied with these laws, we are potentially subject to penalties including warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, mandatory recall of product, seizure of product and injunction, and suspension or limitation of product sale and distribution. if we enter into settlement agreements to resolve allegations of non-compliance, we could be required to make settlement payments or be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the loss of licenses. non-compliance with government requirements could adversely affect our ability to participate in federal and state government healthcare programs, and damage our reputation. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse impact on our businesses. we believe that the healthcare services industry will continue to be subject to extensive domestic and foreign government regulation and that we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance with the laws and regulations. 16 table of contents if we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. we are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal and state laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud. these measures, which focus on our relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers, have been subject to varying interpretations, as well as heightened enforcement activity, over the past few years. significant enforcement activity has been the result of actions brought by relators, who file complaints in the name of the united states (and if applicable, particular states) under federal and state false claims act statutes. damages can be catastrophic if a violation is found. these healthcare fraud laws and regulations, among other things, (i) prohibit persons from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient for treatment or to induce the ordering, purchasing, leasing or arranging for or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing of items or services that are in any way paid for by government-sponsored healthcare programs and (ii) impose a number of restrictions upon referring physicians and providers of designated health services under government healthcare programs. while we believe that we are substantially compliant with all applicable laws, many of the regulations applicable to us are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts. they may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses or our ability to participate in federal and state healthcare programs. expansion of group purchasing organizations ( gpo ) or hospital purchasing power and the multi-tiered costing structure may place us at a competitive disadvantage. the medical-products industry is subject to a multi-tiered costing structure, which can vary by manufacturer and/or product. under this structure, certain institutions can obtain more favorable prices for medical products than we are able to obtain. the multi-tiered costing structure continues to expand as many large integrated healthcare providers and others with significant purchasing power, such as gpos, demand more favorable pricing terms. this may threaten our ability to compete effectively, which would in turn negatively impact our results of operations. although we are seeking to obtain similar terms from manufacturers and obtain access to lower prices demanded by gpo contracts or other contracts, we cannot assure such terms will be obtained or contracts will be executed. our international operations are subject to inherent risks that could adversely affect our operating results. international operations are subject to risks that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the risks that our international operations are subject to include, among other things: difficulties and costs relating to staffing and managing foreign operations; difficulties in establishing channels of distribution; fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies; longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions; repatriation of cash from our foreign operations to the united states; regulatory requirements; unexpected difficulties in importing or exporting our products; imposition of import/export duties, quotas, sanctions or penalties; and unexpected regulatory, economic and political changes in foreign markets. 17 table of contents we experience fluctuations in quarterly earnings. as a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. our business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly fluctuations. net sales and operating profits generally have been higher in the third and fourth quarters due to the timing of sales of seasonal products (including influenza vaccine, equipment and software products), purchasing patterns of office-based healthcare practitioners and year-end promotions. net sales and operating profits generally have been lower in the first quarter, primarily due to increased sales in the prior two quarters. while recent history has resulted in flat to declining sales, we expect our historical seasonality of sales to continue in the foreseeable future. quarterly results may also be adversely affected by a variety of other factors, including: costs of developing new applications and services; costs related to acquisitions and/or integrations of technologies or businesses; timing and amount of sales and marketing expenditures; timing of pricing changes offered by our vendors; timing of the introduction of new products and services by our vendors; changes in or availability of vendor contracts or rebate programs; vendor rebates based upon attaining certain growth goals; changes in the way vendors introduce or deliver products to market; exclusivity requirements with certain vendors may prohibit us from distributing competitive products manufactured by other vendors; loss of sales representatives; general economic conditions, as well as those specific to the healthcare industry and related industries; timing of the release of upgrades and enhancements to our technology-related products and services; our success in establishing or maintaining business relationships; restructuring charges; changes in accounting principles; unexpected difficulties in developing and manufacturing products; product demand and availability or recalls by manufacturers; exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury; and increases in the cost of shipping or service issues with our third-party shippers. any change in one or more of these or other factors could cause our annual or quarterly operating results to fluctuate. if our operating results do not meet market expectations, our stock price may decline. because substantially all of the products that we distribute are not manufactured by us, we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture and supply of substantially all of our products. we obtain substantially all of our products from third-party suppliers. generally, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to supply products to us. therefore, suppliers may not provide the products we need in the quantities we request. because we generally do not control the actual production of the products we sell, we may be subject to delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions outside of our control. in the event that any of our third-party suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to continue to provide the products in required volumes, we would need to identify and obtain 18 table of contents acceptable replacement sources on a timely basis. there is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain such alternative sources of supply on a timely basis, if at all. an extended interruption in the supply of our products, including the supply of our influenza vaccine and any other high sales volume product, would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, which most likely would adversely affect the value of our common stock. our expansion through acquisitions and joint ventures involves risks. we have expanded our domestic and international markets in part through acquisitions and joint ventures, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions and enter into joint ventures in the future. such transactions involve numerous risks, including possible adverse effects on our operating results or the market price of our common stock. some of our acquisitions and future acquisitions may also give rise to an obligation by us to make contingent payments or to satisfy certain repurchase obligations, which payments could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, integrating acquired businesses and joint ventures: may result in a loss of customers or product lines of the acquired businesses or joint ventures; requires significant management attention; and may place significant demands on our operations, information systems and financial resources. there can be no assurance that our future acquisitions or joint ventures will be successful. our ability to continue to successfully effect acquisitions and joint ventures will depend upon the following: the availability of suitable acquisition or joint venture candidates at acceptable prices; our ability to consummate such transactions, which could potentially be prohibited due to u.s. or foreign antitrust regulations; the availability of financing on acceptable terms, in the case of non-stock transactions; and the liquidity of our investments and our ability to raise capital could be affected by the financial credit markets. our acquisitions may not result in the benefits and revenue growth we expect. we are in the process of integrating companies that we acquired and including the operations, services, products and personnel of each company within our management policies, procedures and strategies. we cannot be sure that we will achieve the benefits of revenue growth that we expect from these acquisitions or that we will not incur unforeseen additional costs or expenses in connection with these acquisitions. to effectively manage our expected future growth, we must continue to successfully manage our integration of these companies and continue to improve our operational systems, internal procedures, working capital management, financial and operational controls. if we fail in any of these areas, our business could be adversely affected. we face inherent risk of exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury. our business involves a risk of product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business, and from time to time we are named as a defendant in cases as a result of our distribution of pharmaceutical products, medical devices, bone regeneration and other healthcare products. additionally, we own a majority interest in companies that manufacture certain dental products. as a result, we are subject to the potential risk of product liability or other claims relating to the manufacture and distribution of products by those entities. one of the potential risks we face in the distribution of our products is liability resulting from counterfeit or tainted products infiltrating the supply chain. in addition, some of the products that we transport and sell are considered hazardous materials. the improper handling of such materials or accidents involving the 19 table of contents transportation of such materials could subject us to liability. we have various insurance policies, including product liability insurance, covering risks and in amounts that we consider adequate. in many cases in which we have been sued in connection with products manufactured by others, the manufacturer of the product provides us with indemnification. there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost, or that indemnification agreements will provide us with adequate protection. a successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance or not covered by indemnification agreements, or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us, could have an adverse effect on our business. our technology segment depends upon continued software and e-services product development, technical support and successful marketing. competition among companies supplying practice management software and/or e-services is intense and increasing. our future sales of practice management software and e-services will depend on, among other factors: the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs; our ability to enhance our products and services; and our ability to provide ongoing technical support. we cannot be sure that we will be successful in introducing and marketing new software, software enhancements or e-services, or that such software, software enhancements and e-services will be released on time or accepted by the market. our software and applicable e-services products, like software products generally, may contain undetected errors or bugs when introduced or as new versions are released. we cannot be sure that future problems with post-release software errors or bugs will not occur. any such defective software may result in increased expenses related to the software and could adversely affect our relationships with the customers using such software. we do not have any patents on our software or e-services, and rely upon copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as contractual and common law protections. we cannot provide assurance that such legal protections will be available or enforceable to protect our software or e-services products. risks generally associated with our information systems could adversely affect our results of operations. we rely on information systems in our business to obtain, rapidly process, analyze and manage data to, among other things: maintain and manage worldwide systems to facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution centers; receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis; manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; and process payments to suppliers. our results of operations could be adversely affected if these systems are interrupted, damaged by unforeseen events, or fail for any extended period of time. our revenues depend on our relationships with capable sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers of the products that we distribute. our future operating results depend on our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers. if we fail to maintain our existing relationships with such persons or fail to acquire relationships with such key persons in the future, our business may be adversely affected. 20 table of contents our future success is substantially dependent upon our senior management. our future success is substantially dependent upon the efforts and abilities of members of our existing senior management, particularly stanley m. bergman, chairman and chief executive officer, among others. the loss of the services of mr. bergman could have a material adverse effect on our business. we have an employment agreement with mr. bergman. we do not currently have key man life insurance policies on any of our employees. competition for senior management is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel. increases in the cost of shipping or service issues with our third-party shippers could harm our business. shipping is a significant expense in the operation of our business. we ship almost all of our orders through third-party delivery services, and typically bear the cost of shipment. accordingly, any significant increase in shipping rates could have an adverse effect on our operating results. similarly, strikes or other service interruptions by those shippers could cause our operating expenses to rise and adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis. we may not be able to respond to technological change effectively. traditional healthcare supply and distribution relationships are being challenged by electronic online commerce solutions. our distribution business is characterized by rapid technological developments and intense competition. the continued advancement of online commerce will require us to cost-effectively adapt to changing technologies, to enhance existing services and to develop and introduce a variety of new services to address changing demands of consumers and our clients on a timely basis, particularly in response to competitive offerings. our inability to anticipate and effectively respond to changes on a timely basis could have an adverse effect on our business. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. a variety of factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including: the publication of earnings estimates or other research reports and speculation in the press or investment community; changes in our industry and competitors; our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and prospects; stock repurchases; any future issuances of our common stock, which may include primary offerings for cash, stock splits, issuances in connection with business acquisitions, restricted stock/units and the grant or exercise of stock options from time to time; the dilutive impact of convertible debt on our earnings per share; general market and economic conditions; and any outbreak or escalation of hostilities in areas where we do business. in addition, the nasdaq stock market can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies listed on nasdaq. broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. this type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which would have an adverse effect on our business. 21 table of contents certain provisions in our governing documents and other documents to which we are a party may discourage third-party offers to acquire us that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price of their shares. the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, may discourage acquisition bids and may limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions, among other things: require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 60% of the shares of common stock entitled to vote to approve a merger, consolidation, or a sale, lease, transfer or exchange of all or substantially all of our assets; and require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our common stock entitled to vote to: remove a director; and to amend or repeal our by-laws, with certain limited exceptions. in addition, our 1994 stock incentive plan, 1996 non-employee director stock incentive plan and 2001 non-employee director incentive plan provide for accelerated vesting of stock options upon a change in control, and certain agreements between us and our executive officers provide for increased severance payments if those executive officers are terminated without cause by the company or if they terminate for good reason in each case, within two years after a change in control or within ninety days prior to the effective date of the change in control or after the first public announcement of the pendency of the change in control. tax legislation initiatives could adversely affect our net earnings and tax liabilities. we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the united states federal, state and local governments, as well as foreign jurisdictions. from time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. there can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. in addition, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. although we believe that our historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks, which include changes in interest rates, as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates as measured against the u.s. dollar and each other, and changes to the credit markets. we attempt to minimize these risks by using interest rate swap agreements and foreign currency forward and swap contracts and through maintaining counter-party credit limits. these hedging activities provide only limited protection against interest rate and currency exchange and credit risks. factors that could influence the effectiveness of our programs include volatility of the interest rate and currency markets and availability of hedging instruments and liquidity of the credit markets. all interest rate swap and foreign currency forward and swap contracts that we enter into are components of hedging programs and are entered into for the sole purpose of hedging an existing or anticipated interest rate and currency exposure. we do not enter into such contracts for speculative purposes. we manage our credit risks by diversifying our investments, maintaining a strong balance sheet and having multiple sources of capital. interest rate swap agreements we have remaining fixed rate senior notes of $20.0 million at 6.7%. during 2003, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to exchange these fixed interest rates for variable interest rates. the variable rates are comprised of libor plus spreads and reset on the interest due dates for the senior notes. as a result of these interest rate swap agreements, as well as our existing variable rate credit lines and loan agreements, we are exposed to risk from changes in interest rates. a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $0.2 million. as of december 26, 2009, the fair value of our interest rate swap agreements recorded in other current and non-current assets in our consolidated balance sheet was $0.5 million, which represented the amount that would be received upon unwinding the interest rate swap agreements based on market conditions at that time. changes in the fair value of these interest rate swap agreements are reflected as an adjustment to current and non-current assets or liabilities with an offsetting adjustment to the carrying value of the $20.0 million notes as such hedges are deemed fully effective. foreign currency agreements the value of certain foreign currencies as compared to the u.s. dollar may affect our financial results. fluctuations in exchange rates may positively or negatively affect our revenues, gross margins, operating expenses and retained earnings, all of which are expressed in u.s. dollars. where we deem it prudent, we engage in hedging programs using primarily foreign currency forward and swap contracts aimed at limiting the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on earnings. we purchase short-term (i.e., 12 months or less) foreign currency forward and swap contracts to protect against currency exchange risks associated with intercompany loans due from our international subsidiaries and the payment of merchandise purchases to foreign suppliers. we do not hedge the translation of foreign currency profits into u.s. dollars, as we regard this as an accounting exposure, not an economic exposure. as of december 26, 2009, the fair value of our foreign currency exchange agreements, which expire through august 3, 2010, recorded in other current liabilities was $1.9 million, as determined by quoted market prices. a hypothetical 5% change in the value of the u.s. dollar would change the fair value of our foreign currency exchange agreements by $2.7 million. for the year ended december 26, 2009, we had realized net gains of $1.2 million and unrealized losses of $2.5 million relating to such agreements. short-term investments we limit our credit risk with respect to our cash equivalents, available-for-sale securities, short-term investments and derivative instruments, by monitoring the credit worthiness of the financial institutions who are the counter-parties to such financial instruments. as a risk management policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure by diversifying and utilizing numerous investment grade counter-parties. 50 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors for a discussion of additional regulatory developments that may affect our results of operations and financial condition. proprietary rights we hold trademarks relating to the henry schein name and logo, as well as certain other trademarks. pursuant to agreements executed in connection with our reorganization in 1994, both henry schein, inc. and schein pharmaceutical, inc. (which was acquired by watson pharmaceuticals, inc. in 2000), a company previously engaged in the manufacture and distribution of multi-source pharmaceutical products, are entitled to use the schein name in connection with their respective businesses, but schein pharmaceutical, inc. must always use schein in combination with the word pharmaceutical and is not entitled to use the name henry schein or to use schein alone or with any other word (other than pharmaceutical ). we intend to protec t our trademarks to the fullest extent practicable. employees as of december 25, 2010, we employed more than 13,500 full-time employees, including approximately 1,600 telesales representatives, 3,100 field sales consultants, including equipment sales specialists, 2,575 ware house employees, 600 computer programmers and technicians, 1,250 management employees and 4,775 office, clerical and administrative employees. approximately 305 or 2.3% of our employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements. we believe that our relations with our employees are excellent. 12 table of contents available information we make available free of charge through our internet web site, www.henryschein.com , our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, statements of beneficial ownership of securities on forms 3, 4 and 5 and amendments to these reports and statements filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) and section 16 of the securities exchange act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the united states securities and exchange commission, or sec. the above information is also available at the sec's office of investor education and advocacy at united states securities and exchange commission, 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549-0213 or obtainable by calling the sec at (800) 732-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet web site at www.sec.gov , where the above information can be viewed. our principal executive offices are located at 135 duryea road, melville, new york 11747, and our telephone number is (631) 843-5500. unless the context specifically requires otherwise, the terms the company, henry schein, we, us and our mean henry schein, inc., a delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. 13 table of contents executive officers of the registrant the following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers: name age position stanley m. bergman 61 chairman, chief executive officer, director gerald a. benjamin 58 executive vice president, chief administrative officer, director james p. breslawski 57 president, chief operating officer, director leonard a. david 62 senior vice president, chief compliance officer james harding 55 senior vice president, chief technology officer stanley komaroff 75 senior advisor mark e. mlotek 55 executive vice president, corporate business development, director steven paladino 53 executive vice president, chief financial officer, director michael racioppi 56 senior vice president, chief merchandising officer lonnie shoff 52 president, global healthcare specialties group michael zack 58 president, international group stanley m. bergman has been our chairman and chief executive officer since 1989 and a director since 1982. mr. bergman held the position of president from 1989 to 2005. mr. bergman held the position of executive vice president from 1985 to 1989 and vice president of finance and administration from 1980 to 1985. gerald a. benjamin has been our executive vice president and chief administrative officer since 2000 and a director since 1994. prior to holding his current position, mr. benjamin was senior vice president of administration and customer satisfaction since 1993. mr. benjamin was vice president of distribution operations from 1990 to 1992 and director of materials management from 1988 to 1990. before joining us in 1988, mr. benjamin was employed for 13 years in various management positions at est e lauder, inc., where his last position was director of materials planning and control. james p. breslawski has been our president and chief operating officer since 2005 and a director since 1992. mr. breslawski held the position of executive vice president and president of u.s. dental from 1990 to 2005, with primary responsibility for the north american dental group. between 1980 and 1990, mr. breslawski held various positions with us, including chief financial officer, vice president of finance and administration and controller. leonard a. david has been our senior vice president and chief compliance officer since 2006. mr. david held the position of vice president and chief compliance officer from 2005 to 2006. mr. david held the position of vice president of human resources and special counsel from 1995 to 2005. mr. david held the position of vice president, general counsel and secretary from 1990 through 1994 and practiced corporate and business law for eight years prior to joining us. james harding has been our chief technology officer since 2005 and senior vice president since 2001. prior to holding his current position, mr. harding was chief information officer since 2001, with primary responsibility for worldwide information technology. stanley komaroff has been our senior advisor since 2003. prior to joining us, mr. komaroff was a partner for 35 years in the law firm of proskauer rose llp, counsel to us. he served as chairman of that firm from 1991 to 1999. 14 table of contents mark e. mlotek has been executive vice president of our corporate business development group since 2004 and was senior vice president of corporate business development from 2000 to 2004. prior to that, mr. mlotek was vice president, general counsel and secretary from 1994 to 1999 and became a director in 1995. prior to joining us, mr. mlotek was a partner in the law firm of proskauer rose llp, counsel to us, specializing in mergers and acquisitions, corporate reorganizations and tax law from 1989 to 1994. steven paladino has been our executive vice president and chief financial officer since 2000. prior to holding his current position, mr. paladino was senior vice president and chief financial officer from 1993 to 2000 and has been a director since 1992. from 1990 to 1992, mr. paladino served as vice president and treasurer and from 1987 to 1990 served as corporate controller. before joining us, mr. paladino was employed in public accounting for seven years, most recently with the international accounting firm of bdo usa, llp. mr. paladino is a certified public accountant. michael racioppi has been our senior vice president, chief merchandising officer since 2008. prior to holding his current position, mr. racioppi was president of the medical division from 2000 to 2008 and interim president from 1999 to 2000, and corporate vice president from 1994 to 2008. mr. racioppi served as senior director, corporate merchandising from 1992 to 1994. before joining us in 1992, mr. racioppi was employed by ketchum distributors, inc. as the vice president of purchasing and marketing. lonnie shoff has been president of the global healthcare specialties group since september 2009. prior to joining us, ms. shoff was employed with roche diagnostics, where she held a series of positions of increasing responsibility in the united states and switzerland over the past 20 years, most recently as senior vice president general manager, applied science. michael zack has been president of our international group since 2006. mr. zack held the position of senior vice president of our international group from 1989 to 2006. mr. zack was employed by polymer technology (a subsidiary of bausch &amp; lomb) as vice president of international operations from 1984 to 1989 and by gruenenthal gmbh as manager of international subsidiaries from 1975 to 1984. 15 table of contents item 1a. risk factors recently enacted legislation may adversely impact us. the patient protection and affordable care act enacted in march 2010, generally known as the health care reform bill, imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements for pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers with regard to payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals beginning in january 2012. implementing regulations have not yet been issued, but it is possible that such regulations, when issued, will treat us or one or more of our subsidiaries as a manufacturer subject to these reporting requirements. in addition, several states require pharmaceutical and/or device companies to report expenses relating to the marketing and promotion of products as well as gifts and payments to individual practitioners in the states, or prohibit certain marketing related a ctivities. other states, such as california, nevada, and massachusetts, require pharmaceutical and/or device companies to implement compliance programs or marketing codes. wholesale distributors are covered by the laws in certain of these states. in others, it is possible that our activities or the activities of one or more of our subsidiaries will subject us to the state's reporting requirements and prohibitions. the patient protection and affordable care act also imposes (i) a 2.3% excise tax on domestic sales of medical devices by manufacturers and importers beginning in 2013, which we may need to assist in implementing and which may affect sales, and (ii) mandates pharmacy benefit manager transparency regarding rebates, discounts and price concessions, which could affect pricing and competition. the healthcare products distribution industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully. we compete with numerous companies, including several major manufacturers and distributors. some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, which could allow them to compete more successfully. most of our products are available from several sources and our customers tend to have relationships with several distributors. competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market particular products, which we would then be unable to market. manufacturers also could increase their efforts to sell directly to end-users and thereby eliminate or reduce our role and that of other distributors. industry consolidation among healthcare products distributors, price competition, the unavailability of products, whether due to our inability to gain access to products or to i nterruptions in supply from manufacturers, or the emergence of new competitors also could increase competition. in the future, we may be unable to compete successfully and competitive pressures may reduce our revenues. the healthcare industry is experiencing changes that could adversely affect our business. the healthcare industry is highly regulated and subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. in recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including the reduction of spending budgets by government and private insurance programs, such as medicare, medicaid and corporate health insurance plans; pressures relating to potential healthcare reform; trends toward managed care; consolidation of healthcare distribution companies; consolidation of healthcare manufacturers; collective purchasing arrangements and consolidation among office-based healthcare practitioners; and changes in reimbursements to customers. both our own profit margins and the profit margins of our customers may be adversely affected by laws and regulations reduci ng reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services or changing the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined. if we are unable to react effectively to these and other changes in the healthcare industry, our operating results could be adversely affected. in addition, the enactment of any significant healthcare reforms could have a material adverse effect on our business. 16 table of contents failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could negatively affect our business. our business is subject to requirements under various local, state, federal and international laws and regulations applicable to the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices, and human cells, tissue, and cellular and tissue-based products, also known as hct/p products. among the federal laws with which we must comply are the controlled substances act, the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, as amended, the prescription drug marketing act of 1987, and section 361 of the public health services act. among other things, such laws, and the regulations promulgated thereunder: regulate the storage and distribution, labeling, packaging, handling, reporting, record keeping, introduction, manufacturing and marketing of drugs, hct/p products and medical devices; subject us to inspection by the united states food and drug administration and the united states drug enforcement administration; regulate the storage, transportation and disposal of certain of our products that are considered hazardous materials; require registration with the united states food and drug administration and the united states drug enforcement administration and various state agencies; require record keeping and documentation of transactions involving drug products; require us to design and operate a system to identify and report suspicious orders of controlled substances to the united states drug enforcement agency; require us to manage returns of products that have been recalled and subject us to inspection of our recall procedures and activities; and impose reporting requirements if a pharmaceutical, hct/p products or medical device causes serious illness, injury or death. applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations also may require us to meet various standards relating to, among other things, licensure or registration, sales and marketing practices, product integrity and supply tracking to the manufacturer of the product, personnel, privacy and security of health or other personal information, installation, maintenance and repair of equipment, and the importation and exportation of products. our business also is subject to requirements of similar and other foreign governmental laws and regulations affecting our operations abroad. the united states food and drug administration and drug enforcement administration have recently increased their regulatory and enforcement activities. the failure to comply with any of these regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or the imposition of any additional laws and regulations, could negatively affect our business. there can be no assurance that current government regulations will not adversely affect our business. the costs to us associated with complying with the various applicable statutes and regulations, as they now exist and as they may be modified, could be material. allegations by a governmental body that we have not complied with these laws could have a material adverse impact on our businesses. if it is determined that we have not complied with these laws, we are potentially subject to penalties including warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, mandatory recall of product, seizure of product and i njunction, and suspension or limitation of product sale and distribution. if we enter into settlement agreements to resolve allegations of non-compliance, we could be required to make settlement payments or be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the loss of licenses. non-compliance with government requirements could adversely affect our ability to participate in federal and state government healthcare programs, and damage our reputation. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse impact on our businesses. we believe that the healthcare services industry will continue to be subject to extensive domestic and foreign government regulation and that we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance with the laws and regulations. 17 table of contents if we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. we are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal and state laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud. these measures, which focus on our relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers, have been subject to varying interpretations, as well as heightened enforcement activity, over the past few years. significant enforcement activity has been the result of actions brought by relators, who file complaints in the name of the united states (and if applicable, particular states) under federal and state false claims act statutes. damages can be catastrophic if a violation is found. these healthcare fraud laws and regulations, among other things, (i) prohibit persons from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any remuneration in order to ind uce the referral of a patient for treatment or to induce the ordering, purchasing, leasing or arranging for or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing of items or services that are in any way paid for by government-sponsored healthcare programs and (ii) impose a number of restrictions upon referring physicians and providers of designated health services under government healthcare programs. while we believe that we are substantially compliant with all applicable laws, many of the regulations applicable to us are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts. they may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses or our ability to participate in federal and state healthcare programs. expansion of group purchasing organizations ( gpo ) or hospital purchasing power and the multi-tiered costing structure may place us at a competitive disadvantage. the medical-products industry is subject to a multi-tiered costing structure, which can vary by manufacturer and/or product. under this structure, certain institutions can obtain more favorable prices for medical products than we are able to obtain. the multi-tiered costing structure continues to expand as many large integrated healthcare providers and others with significant purchasing power, such as gpos, demand more favorable pricing terms. this may threaten our ability to compete effectively, which would in turn negatively impact our results of operations. although we are seeking to obtain similar terms from manufacturers and obtain access to lower prices demanded by gpo contracts or other contracts, we cannot assure such terms will be obtained or contracts will be executed. our international operations are subject to inherent risks that could adversely affect our operating results. international operations are subject to risks that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the risks that our international operations are subject to include, among other things: difficulties and costs relating to staffing and managing foreign operations; difficulties in establishing channels of distribution; fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies; longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions; repatriation of cash from our foreign operations to the united states; regulatory requirements; unexpected difficulties in importing or exporting our products; imposition of import/export duties, quotas, sanctions or penalties; and unexpected regulatory, economic and political changes in foreign markets. 18 table of contents we experience fluctuations in quarterly earnings. as a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. our business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly fluctuations. net sales and operating profits generally have been higher in the third and fourth quarters due to the timing of sales of seasonal products (including influenza vaccine, equipment and software products), purchasing patterns of office-based healthcare practitioners and year-end promotions. net sales and operating profits generally have been lower in the first quarter, primarily due to increased sales in the prior two quarters. we expect our historical seasonality of sales to continue in the foreseeable future. quarterly results may also be adversely affected by a variety of other factors, including: costs of developing new applications and services; costs related to acquisitions and/or integrations of technologies or businesses; timing and amount of sales and marketing expenditures; timing of pricing changes offered by our vendors; timing of the introduction of new products and services by our vendors; changes in or availability of vendor contracts or rebate programs; vendor rebates based upon attaining certain growth goals; changes in the way vendors introduce or deliver products to market; exclusivity requirements with certain vendors may prohibit us from distributing competitive products manufactured by other vendors; loss of sales representatives; general economic conditions, as well as those specific to the healthcare industry and related industries; timing of the release of upgrades and enhancements to our technology-related products and services; our success in establishing or maintaining business relationships; restructuring costs; changes in accounting principles; unexpected difficulties in developing and manufacturing products; product demand and availability or recalls by manufacturers; exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury; and increases in the cost of shipping or service issues with our third-party shippers. any change in one or more of these or other factors could cause our annual or quarterly operating results to fluctuate. if our operating results do not meet market expectations, our stock price may decline. 19 table of contents because substantially all of the products that we distribute are not manufactured by us, we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture and supply of substantially all of our products. we obtain substantially all of our products from third-party suppliers. generally, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to supply products to us. therefore, suppliers may not provide the products we need in the quantities we request. because we generally do not control the actual production of the products we sell, we may be subject to delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions outside of our control. in the event that any of our third-party suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to continue to provide the products in required volumes, we would need to identify and obtain acceptable replacement sources on a timely basis. there is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain such alternative sources of supply on a timely basis, if at al l. an extended interruption in the supply of our products, including the supply of our influenza vaccine and any other high sales volume product, would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, which most likely would adversely affect the value of our common stock. our expansion through acquisitions and joint ventures involves risks. we have expanded our domestic and international markets in part through acquisitions and joint ventures, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions and enter into joint ventures in the future. such transactions involve numerous risks, including possible adverse effects on our operating results or the market price of our common stock. some of our acquisitions and future acquisitions may also give rise to an obligation by us to make contingent payments or to satisfy certain repurchase obligations, which payments could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, integrating acquired businesses and joint ventures: may result in a loss of customers or product lines of the acquired businesses or joint ventures; requires significant management attention; may place significant demands on our operations, information systems and financial resources; and results in additional acquisition and integration expenses. there can be no assurance that our future acquisitions or joint ventures will be successful. our ability to continue to successfully effect acquisitions and joint ventures will depend upon the following: the availability of suitable acquisition or joint venture candidates at acceptable prices; our ability to consummate such transactions, which could potentially be prohibited due to u.s. or foreign antitrust regulations; the availability of financing on acceptable terms, in the case of non-stock transactions; and the liquidity of our investments and our ability to raise capital could be affected by the financial credit markets. our acquisitions may not result in the benefits and revenue growth we expect. we are in the process of integrating companies that we acquired and including the operations, services, products and personnel of each company within our management policies, procedures and strategies. we cannot be sure that we will achieve the benefits of revenue growth that we expect from these acquisitions or that we will not incur unforeseen additional costs or expenses in connection with these acquisitions. to effectively manage our expected future growth, we must continue to successfully manage our integration of these companies and continue to improve our operational systems, internal procedures, working capital management, financial and operational controls. if we fail in any of these areas, our business could be adversely affected. 20 table of contents we face inherent risk of exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury. our business involves a risk of product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business, and from time to time we are named as a defendant in cases as a result of our distribution of pharmaceutical products, medical devices, bone regeneration and other healthcare products. additionally, we own interests in companies that manufacture certain dental products. as a result, we are subject to the potential risk of product liability or other claims relating to the manufacture and distribution of products by those entities. one of the potential risks we face in the distribution of our products is liability resulting from counterfeit or tainted products infiltrating the supply chain. in addition, some of the products that we transport and sell are considered hazardous materials. the impro per handling of such materials or accidents involving the transportation of such materials could subject us to liability. we have various insurance policies, including product liability insurance, covering risks and in amounts that we consider adequate. in many cases in which we have been sued in connection with products manufactured by others, the manufacturer of the product provides us with indemnification. there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost, or that indemnification agreements will provide us with adequate protection. a successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance or not covered by indemnification agreements, or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us, could have an adverse effect on our business. our technology segment depends upon continued software and e-services product development, technical support and successful marketing. competition among companies supplying practice management software and/or e-services is intense and increasing. our future sales of practice management software and e-services will depend on, among other factors: the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs; our ability to enhance our products and services; and our ability to provide ongoing technical support. we cannot be sure that we will be successful in introducing and marketing new software, software enhancements or e-services, or that such software, software enhancements and e-services will be released on time or accepted by the market. our software and applicable e-services products, like software products generally, may contain undetected errors or bugs when introduced or as new versions are released. we cannot be sure that future problems with post-release software errors or bugs will not occur. any such defective software may result in increased expenses related to the software and could adversely affect our relationships with the customers using such software. we do not have any patents on our software or e-services, and rely upon copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as cont ractual and common law protections. we cannot provide assurance that such legal protections will be available or enforceable to protect our software or e-services products. 21 table of contents risks generally associated with our information systems could adversely affect our results of operations. we rely on information systems in our business to obtain, rapidly process, analyze and manage data to, among other things: maintain and manage worldwide systems to facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution centers; receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis; manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; and process payments to suppliers. our results of operations could be adversely affected if these systems are interrupted, damaged by unforeseen events, or fail for any extended period of time. declining economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. macro-economic uncertainties that affect the economy and the economic outlook of the united states and other parts of the world could adversely impact our customers and vendors, which could adversely affect us. recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending may cause customers to reduce, modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may cause vendors to reduce their output or change their terms of sales. we generally sell products to customers with payment terms. if customers' cash flow or operating and financial performance deteriorates, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment to us. likewise, for similar reasons vendors may restrict credit or impose different payme nt terms. any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for our products and/or services or any demands by vendors for different payment terms may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us. our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us. our revenues depend on our relationships with capable sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers of the products that we distribute. our future operating results depend on our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers. if we fail to maintain our existing relationships with such persons or fail to acquire relationships with such key persons in the future, our business may be adversely affected. our future success is substantially dependent upon our senior management. our future success is substantially dependent upon the efforts and abilities of members of our existing senior management, particularly stanley m. bergman, chairman and chief executive officer, among others. the loss of the services of mr. bergman could have a material adverse effect on our business. we have an employment agreement with mr. bergman. we do not currently have key man life insurance policies on any of our employees. competition for senior management is intense, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel. 22 table of contents increases in the cost of shipping or service issues with our third-party shippers could harm our business. shipping is a significant expense in the operation of our business. we ship almost all of our orders through third-party delivery services, and typically bear the cost of shipment. accordingly, any significant increase in shipping rates could have an adverse effect on our operating results. similarly, strikes or other service interruptions by those shippers could cause our operating expenses to rise and adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis. we may not be able to respond to technological change effectively. traditional healthcare supply and distribution relationships are being challenged by electronic online commerce solutions. our distribution business is characterized by rapid technological developments and intense competition. the continued advancement of online commerce will require us to cost-effectively adapt to changing technologies, to enhance existing services and to develop and introduce a variety of new services to address changing demands of consumers and our clients on a timely basis, particularly in response to competitive offerings. our inability to anticipate and effectively respond to changes on a timely basis could have an adverse effect on our business. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. a variety of factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including: the publication of earnings estimates or other research reports and speculation in the press or investment community; changes in our industry and competitors; our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and prospects; stock repurchases; any future issuances of our common stock, which may include primary offerings for cash, stock splits, issuances in connection with business acquisitions, restricted stock/units and the grant or exercise of stock options from time to time; general market and economic conditions; and any outbreak or escalation of hostilities in areas where we do business. in addition, the nasdaq stock market can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies listed on nasdaq. broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. this type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which would have an adverse effect on our business. 23 table of contents certain provisions in our governing documents and other documents to which we are a party may discourage third-party offers to acquire us that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price of their shares. the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, may discourage acquisition bids and may limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions, among other things: require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 60% of the shares of common stock entitled to vote to approve a merger, consolidation, or a sale, lease, transfer or exchange of all or substantially all of our assets; and require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our common stock entitled to vote to: remove a director; and to amend or repeal our by-laws, with certain limited exceptions. in addition, our 1994 stock incentive plan, 1996 non-employee director stock incentive plan and 2001 non-employee director incentive plan provide for accelerated vesting of stock options upon a change in control, and certain agreements between us and our executive officers provide for increased severance payments if those executive officers are terminated without cause by the company or if they terminate for good reason in each case, within two years after a change in control or within ninety days prior to the effective date of the change in control or after the first public announcement of the pendency of the change in control. tax legislation initiatives could adversely affect our net earnings and tax liabilities. we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the united states federal, state and local governments, as well as foreign jurisdictions. from time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. there can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. in addition, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. although we believe that our historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks, which include changes in interest rates, as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates as measured against the u.s. dollar and each other, and changes to the credit markets. we attempt to minimize these risks by using an interest rate cap agreement and foreign currency forward contracts and through maintaining counter-party credit limits. these hedging activities provide only limited protection against interest rate and currency exchange and credit risks. factors that could influence the effectiveness of our programs include volatility of the interest rate and currency markets and availability of hedging instruments and liquidity of the credit markets. all interest rate cap and foreign currency forward contracts that we enter into are components of hedgin g programs and are entered into for the sole purpose of hedging an existing or anticipated interest rate or currency exposure. we do not enter into such contracts for speculative purposes. we manage our credit risks by diversifying our investments, maintaining a strong balance sheet and having multiple sources of capital. interest rate hedges in connection with the debt incurred as part of the acquisition of butler animal health supply, llc ( bahs ), bahs incurred $320.0 million of debt. interest on the debt is charged at libor plus a margin of 3.5% with a libor floor of 2%. the debt agreement contains a provision that required bahs to hedge risks related to potential rising interest rates. as a result, bahs has entered into series of interest rate caps, with a notional amount of $160.0 million, protecting against libor interest rates rising above 3% through march 12, 2012. as of december 25, 2010, the fair value of our interest rate cap agreements recorded in other current and non-current assets in our consolidated balance sheet was $14 thousand, which represented the amount that would be received upon unwinding the interest rate cap agreements based on market conditions at that time. changes in the fair value of these interest rate cap agreements are reflected as an adjustment to current and non-current assets or liabilities with an offsetting adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income since the hedge is deemed fully effective. foreign currency agreements the value of certain foreign currencies as compared to the u.s. dollar may affect our financial results. fluctuations in exchange rates may positively or negatively affect our revenues, gross margins, operating expenses and retained earnings, all of which are expressed in u.s. dollars. where we deem it prudent, we engage in hedging programs using primarily foreign currency forward contracts aimed at limiting the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on earnings. we purchase short-term (i.e., 12 months or less) foreign currency forward contracts to protect against currency exchange risks associated with intercompany loans due from our international subsidiaries and the payment of merchandise purchases to foreign suppliers. we do not hedge the translation of foreign currency profi ts into u.s. dollars, as we regard this as an accounting exposure, not an economic exposure. as of december 25, 2010, the fair value of our foreign currency exchange agreements, which expire through may 26, 2011, recorded in other current liabilities was $1.6 million, as determined by quoted market prices. a hypothetical 5% change in the value of the u.s. dollar would change the fair value of our foreign currency exchange agreements by $2.3 million. short-term investments we limit our credit risk with respect to our cash equivalents, available-for-sale securities, short-term investments and derivative instruments, by monitoring the credit worthiness of the financial institutions who are the counter-parties to such financial instruments. as a risk management policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure by diversifying and utilizing numerous investment grade counter-parties. 51 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors for a discussion of additional regulatory developments that may affect our results of operations and financial condition. proprietary rights we hold trademarks relating to the henry schein name and logo, as well as certain other trademarks. pursuant to agreements executed in connection with our reorganization in 1994, both henry schein, inc. and schein pharmaceutical, inc. (which was acquired by watson pharmaceuticals, inc. in 2000), a company previously engaged in the manufacture and distribution of multi-source pharmaceutical products, are entitled to use the schein name in connection with their respective businesses, but schein pharmaceutical, inc. must always use schein in combination with the word pharmaceutical and is not entitled to use the name henry schein or to use schein alone or with any other word (other than pharmaceutical ). we intend to protect our trademarks to the fullest extent practicable. employees as of december 31, 2011, we employed nearly 15,000 full-time employees, including approximately 1,625 telesales representatives, 3,200 field sales consultants, including equipment sales specialists, 2,725 warehouse employees, 625 computer programmers and technicians, 1,375 management employees and 5,200 office, clerical and administrative employees. approximately 309 or 2.1% of our employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements. we believe that our relations with our employees are excellent. available information we make available free of charge through our internet web site, www.henryschein.com , our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, statements of beneficial ownership of securities on forms 3, 4 and 5 and amendments to these reports and statements filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) and section 16 of the securities exchange act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the united states securities and exchange commission, or sec. the above information is also available at the sec's office of investor education and advocacy at united states securities and exchange commission, 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549-0213 or obtainable by calling the sec at (800) 732-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet web site at www.sec.gov , where the above information can be viewed. our principal executive offices are located at 135 duryea road, melville, new york 11747, and our telephone number is (631) 843-5500. unless the context specifically requires otherwise, the terms the company, henry schein, we, us and our mean henry schein, inc., a delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. 13 table of contents executive officers of the registrant the following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers: name age position stanley m. bergman 62 chairman, chief executive officer, director gerald a. benjamin 59 executive vice president, chief administrative officer, director james p. breslawski 58 president, chief operating officer, director leonard a. david 63 senior vice president, chief compliance officer james harding 56 senior vice president, chief technology officer stanley komaroff 76 senior advisor mark e. mlotek 56 executive vice president, global corporate strategy, director steven paladino 54 executive vice president, chief financial officer, director michael racioppi 57 senior vice president, chief merchandising officer lonnie shoff 53 president, global healthcare specialties group michael zack 59 president, international group stanley m. bergman has been our chairman and chief executive officer since 1989 and a director since 1982. mr. bergman held the position of president from 1989 to 2005. mr. bergman held the position of executive vice president from 1985 to 1989 and vice president of finance and administration from 1980 to 1985. gerald a. benjamin has been our executive vice president and chief administrative officer since 2000 and a director since 1994. prior to holding his current position, mr. benjamin was senior vice president of administration and customer satisfaction since 1993. mr. benjamin was vice president of distribution operations from 1990 to 1992 and director of materials management from 1988 to 1990. before joining us in 1988, mr. benjamin was employed for 13 years in various management positions at est e lauder, inc., where his last position was director of materials planning and control. james p. breslawski has been our president and chief operating officer since 2005 and a director since 1992. mr. breslawski held the position of executive vice president and president of u.s. dental from 1990 to 2005, with primary responsibility for the north american dental group. between 1980 and 1990, mr. breslawski held various positions with us, including chief financial officer, vice president of finance and administration and controller. leonard a. david has been our senior vice president and chief compliance officer since 2006. mr. david held the position of vice president and chief compliance officer from 2005 to 2006. mr. david held the position of vice president of human resources and special counsel from 1995 to 2005. mr. david held the position of vice president, general counsel and secretary from 1990 through 1994 and practiced corporate and business law for eight years prior to joining us. james harding has been our chief technology officer since 2005 and senior vice president since 2001. prior to holding his current position, mr. harding was chief information officer since 2001, with primary responsibility for worldwide information technology. stanley komaroff has been our senior advisor since 2003. prior to joining us, mr. komaroff was a partner for 35 years in the law firm of proskauer rose llp, counsel to us. he served as chairman of that firm from 1991 to 1999. 14 table of contents mark e. mlotek has been executive vice president of global corporate strategy since 2004. mr. mlotek was senior vice president of corporate business development from 2000 to 2004. prior to that, mr. mlotek was vice president, general counsel and secretary from 1994 to 1999 and became a director in 1995. prior to joining us, mr. mlotek was a partner in the law firm of proskauer rose llp, counsel to us, specializing in mergers and acquisitions, corporate reorganizations and tax law from 1989 to 1994. steven paladino has been our executive vice president and chief financial officer since 2000. prior to holding his current position, mr. paladino was senior vice president and chief financial officer from 1993 to 2000 and has been a director since 1992. from 1990 to 1992, mr. paladino served as vice president and treasurer and from 1987 to 1990 served as corporate controller. before joining us, mr. paladino was employed in public accounting for seven years, most recently with the international accounting firm of bdo usa, llp. mr. paladino is a certified public accountant. michael racioppi has been our senior vice president, chief merchandising officer since 2008. prior to holding his current position, mr. racioppi was president of the medical division from 2000 to 2008 and interim president from 1999 to 2000, and corporate vice president from 1994 to 2008. mr. racioppi served as senior director, corporate merchandising from 1992 to 1994. before joining us in 1992, mr. racioppi was employed by ketchum distributors, inc. as the vice president of purchasing and marketing. lonnie shoff has been president of the global healthcare specialties group since 2009. prior to joining us, ms. shoff was employed with roche diagnostics, where she held a series of positions of increasing responsibility in the united states and switzerland over the past 20 years, most recently as senior vice president general manager, applied science. michael zack has been president of our international group since 2006. mr. zack held the position of senior vice president of our international group from 1989 to 2006. mr. zack was employed by polymer technology (a subsidiary of bausch &amp; lomb) as vice president of international operations from 1984 to 1989 and by gruenenthal gmbh as manager of international subsidiaries from 1975 to 1984. 15 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the risks described below could have a material adverse impact on our business, reputation, financial condition or the trading price of our common stock. although it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties, they may include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider not to be material to our operations. you should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all risks and uncertainties. the order in which these factors appear should not be construed to indicate their relative importance or priority. the healthcare products distribution industry is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete successfully. we compete with numerous companies, including several major manufacturers and distributors. some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, which could allow them to compete more successfully. most of our products are available from several sources and our customers tend to have relationships with several distributors. competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market particular products, which we would then be unable to market. manufacturers also could increase their efforts to sell directly to end-users and thereby eliminate or reduce our role and that of other distributors. industry consolidation among healthcare products distributors, price competition, the unavailability of products, whether due to our inability to gain access to products or to interruptions in supply from manufacturers, or the emergence of new competitors also could increase competition. in the future, we may be unable to compete successfully and competitive pressures may reduce our revenues. because substantially all of the products that we distribute are not manufactured by us, we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture and supply of substantially all of our products. we obtain substantially all of our products from third-party suppliers. generally, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to supply products to us. therefore, suppliers may not provide the products we need in the quantities we request. because we generally do not control the actual production of the products we sell, we may be subject to delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions outside of our control. in the event that any of our third-party suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to continue to provide the products in required volumes, we would need to identify and obtain acceptable replacement sources on a timely basis. there is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain such alternative sources of supply on a timely basis, if at all. an extended interruption in the supply of our products, including the supply of our influenza vaccine and any other high sales volume product, would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, which most likely would adversely affect the value of our common stock. our revenues depend on our relationships with capable sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers of the products that we distribute. our future operating results depend on our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers. if we fail to maintain our existing relationships with such persons or fail to acquire relationships with such key persons in the future, our business may be adversely affected. our future success is substantially dependent upon our senior management. our future success is substantially dependent upon the efforts and abilities of members of our existing senior management, particularly stanley m. bergman, chairman and chief executive officer, among others. the loss of the services of mr. bergman could have a material adverse effect on our business. we have an employment agreement with mr. bergman. we do not currently have key man life insurance policies on any of our employees. competition for senior management is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel. 16 table of contents we experience fluctuations in quarterly earnings. as a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. our business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly fluctuations. net sales and operating profits generally have been higher in the third and fourth quarters due to the timing of sales of seasonal products (including influenza vaccine, equipment and software products), purchasing patterns of office-based healthcare practitioners and year-end promotions. net sales and operating profits generally have been lower in the first quarter, primarily due to increased sales in the prior two quarters. we expect our historical seasonality of sales to continue in the foreseeable future. quarterly results may also be adversely affected by a variety of other factors, including: timing and amount of sales and marketing expenditures; timing of pricing changes offered by our vendors; timing of the introduction of new products and services by our vendors; timing of the release of upgrades and enhancements to our technology-related products and services; changes in or availability of vendor contracts or rebate programs; vendor rebates based upon attaining certain growth goals; changes in the way vendors introduce or deliver products to market; costs of developing new applications and services; exclusivity requirements with certain vendors may prohibit us from distributing competitive products manufactured by other vendors; loss of sales representatives; costs related to acquisitions and/or integrations of technologies or businesses; costs associated with our self-insured medical insurance program; general economic conditions, as well as those specific to the healthcare industry and related industries; our success in establishing or maintaining business relationships; unexpected difficulties in developing and manufacturing products; product demand and availability or recalls by manufacturers; exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury; increases in the cost of shipping or service issues with our third-party shippers; restructuring costs; and changes in accounting principles. any change in one or more of these or other factors could cause our annual or quarterly operating results to fluctuate. if our operating results do not meet market expectations, our stock price may decline. 17 table of contents expansion of group purchasing organizations ( gpo ) or provider networks and the multi-tiered costing structure may place us at a competitive disadvantage. the medical products industry is subject to a multi-tiered costing structure, which can vary by manufacturer and/or product. under this structure, certain institutions can obtain more favorable prices for medical products than we are able to obtain. the multi-tiered costing structure continues to expand as many large integrated healthcare providers and others with significant purchasing power, such as gpos, demand more favorable pricing terms. additionally, the formation of provider networks and gpos may shift purchasing decisions to entities or persons with whom we do not have a historical relationship. this may threaten our ability to compete effectively, which would in turn negatively impact our results of operations. although we are seeking to obtain similar terms from manufacturers and obtain access to lower prices demanded by gpo contracts or other contracts and seeking to develop relationships with provider networks and new gpos, we cannot assure such terms will be obtained or contracts will be executed. increases in the cost of shipping or service issues with our third-party shippers could harm our business. shipping is a significant expense in the operation of our business. we ship almost all of our orders through third-party delivery services, and typically bear the cost of shipment. accordingly, any significant increase in shipping rates could have an adverse effect on our operating results. similarly, strikes or other service interruptions by those shippers could cause our operating expenses to rise and adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis. uncertain global macro-economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. uncertain global macro-economic conditions that affect the economy and the economic outlook of the united states, europe and other parts of the world could adversely affect our customers and vendors, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. these uncertainties, including, among other things, sovereign debt levels, the inability of national or international political institutions to effectively resolve economic or budgetary crises or issues, consumer confidence, unemployment levels (and a corresponding increase in the uninsured and underinsured population), interest rates, availability of capital, fuel and energy costs, tax rates, healthcare costs and the threat or outbreak of terrorism or public unrest, could adversely impact our customers and vendors, which could adversely affect us. recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending may cause customers to reduce, modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may cause vendors to reduce their output or change their terms of sales. we generally sell products to customers with payment terms. if customers' cash flow or operating and financial performance deteriorates, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment to us. likewise, for similar reasons vendors may restrict credit or impose different payment terms. any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for our products and/or services or any demands by vendors for different payment terms may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. approximately 28% of our total consolidated net sales for the year ended december 31, 2011 were derived from europe. there have been continuing concerns and uncertainties about the state of the european economies and europe's political institutions. continued difficult, and/or declining, economic conditions in europe may adversely affect our operations in europe by adversely affecting our european customers and vendors in the ways described above. additionally, the inability of europe's political institutions to deal effectively with actual or perceived currency or budget crises could increase economic uncertainty in europe, and globally, and may have an adverse effect on our customer's cash flow or operating performance. further, debt and/or budget crises in the european countries may lead to reductions in government spending in certain countries, which could reduce overall healthcare spending, and/or higher income or corporate taxes, which could depress spending overall. in either event, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 18 table of contents disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us. our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. a variety of factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including: the publication of earnings estimates or other research reports and speculation in the press or investment community; changes in our industry and competitors; our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and prospects; stock repurchases; any future issuances of our common stock, which may include primary offerings for cash, stock splits, issuances in connection with business acquisitions, restricted stock/units and the grant or exercise of stock options from time to time; general market and economic conditions; and any outbreak or escalation of hostilities in areas where we do business. in addition, the nasdaq stock market can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies listed on nasdaq. broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. this type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which would have an adverse effect on our business. the healthcare industry is experiencing changes that could adversely affect our business. the healthcare industry is highly regulated and subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. in recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including: trends toward managed care; consolidation of healthcare distribution companies; consolidation of healthcare manufacturers; collective purchasing arrangements and consolidation among office-based healthcare practitioners; and changes in reimbursements to customers. both our own profit margins and the profit margins of our customers may be adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services or changing the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined. if we are unable to react effectively to these and other changes in the healthcare industry, our operating results could be adversely affected. in addition, the enactment of significant healthcare reforms could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. the implementation of the health care reform law may adversely impact us. the patient protection and affordable care act as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act, each enacted in march 2010, generally known as the health care reform law, significantly expands health insurance coverage to uninsured americans and changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private payers. we expect expansion of access to health insurance to increase the demand for our products and services, but other provisions of the health care reform law could affect us adversely. additionally, further federal and state proposals for healthcare reform are likely. we cannot predict what further reform proposals, if any, will be adopted, when they may be adopted, or what impact they may have on us. 19 table of contents the health care reform law also imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements for pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers with regard to payments or other transfers of value made to certain practitioners, including physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals, and imposes new reporting and disclosure requirements for pharmaceutical and device manufacturers and group purchasing organizations with regard to certain ownership interests held by physicians in the reporting entity. data collection obligations were to commence in january 2012, and reporting requirements are to be implemented in 2013. on december 14, 2011, the centers for medicare and medicaid services issued proposed regulations to implement these provisions and sought substantial comments, thus apparently delaying the january 1, 2012 start of information collection. these proposed regulations are broadly drafted and still subject to change, and it is possible that when these regulations are finalized, they will treat us or one or more of our subsidiaries as an entity subject to these reporting requirements. in addition, through business arrangements we have with drug and device manufacturers, we may be required to collect and report detailed information to these manufacturers in order for these manufacturers to comply with the new requirements. in addition, several states require pharmaceutical and/or device companies to report expenses relating to the marketing and promotion of products as well as gifts and payments to individual practitioners in the states, or prohibit certain marketing related activities. other states, such as california, nevada, massachusetts and connecticut, require pharmaceutical and/or device companies to implement compliance programs or marketing codes. wholesale distributors are covered by the laws in certain of these states. in others, it is possible that our activities or the activities of one or more of our subsidiaries will subject us to the state's reporting requirements and prohibitions. compliance activities with respect to these measures could increase our costs and adversely affect business operations. the health care reform law contains many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and to reduce costs of medicare and medicaid, including imposing a 2.3% excise tax on domestic sales of medical devices by manufacturers and importers beginning in 2013, and a fee on branded prescription drugs and biologics that was implemented in 2011, both of which may affect sales. the health care reform law also mandates pharmacy benefit manager transparency regarding rebates, discounts and price concessions with respect to drug benefits under medicare part d, and in 2014 with respect to drug benefits offered through qualified health plans offered through state exchanges, which could affect pricing and competition. failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could negatively affect our business. our business is subject to requirements under various local, state, federal and international laws and regulations applicable to the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices, and human cells, tissue, and cellular and tissue-based products, also known as hct/p products. among the federal laws with which we must comply are the controlled substances act, the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, as amended, the prescription drug marketing act of 1987, and section 361 of the public health services act. among other things, such laws, and the regulations promulgated thereunder: regulate the storage and distribution, labeling, packaging, handling, reporting, record keeping, introduction, manufacturing and marketing of drugs, hct/p products and medical devices; subject us to inspection by the united states food and drug administration and the united states drug enforcement administration; regulate the storage, transportation and disposal of certain of our products that are considered hazardous materials; require registration with the united states food and drug administration and the united states drug enforcement administration and various state agencies; require record keeping and documentation of transactions involving drug products; require us to design and operate a system to identify and report suspicious orders of controlled substances to the united states drug enforcement agency; require us to manage returns of products that have been recalled and subject us to inspection of our recall procedures and activities; and impose reporting requirements if a pharmaceutical, hct/p products or medical device causes serious illness, injury or death. 20 table of contents applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations also may require us to meet various standards relating to, among other things, licensure or registration, sales and marketing practices, product integrity and supply tracking to the manufacturer of the product, personnel, privacy and security of health or other personal information, installation, maintenance and repair of equipment, and the importation and exportation of products. our business also is subject to requirements of similar and other foreign governmental laws and regulations affecting our operations abroad. the united states food and drug administration and united states drug enforcement administration have recently increased their regulatory and enforcement activities. the failure to comply with any of these regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or the imposition of any additional laws and regulations, could negatively affect our business. there can be no assurance that current government regulations will not adversely affect our business. the costs to us associated with complying with the various applicable statutes and regulations, as they now exist and as they may be modified, could be material. allegations by a governmental body that we have not complied with these laws could have a material adverse impact on our businesses. if it is determined that we have not complied with these laws, we are potentially subject to penalties including warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, mandatory recall of product, seizure of product and injunction, and suspension or limitation of product sale and distribution. if we enter into settlement agreements to resolve allegations of non-compliance, we could be required to make settlement payments or be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the loss of licenses. non-compliance with government requirements could adversely affect our ability to participate in federal and state government healthcare programs, and damage our reputation. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse impact on our businesses. we believe that the healthcare services industry will continue to be subject to extensive domestic and foreign government regulation and that we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance with the laws and regulations. if we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations. we are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal and state laws and regulations relating to healthcare fraud. these measures, which focus on our relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers and healthcare providers, have been subject to varying interpretations, as well as heightened enforcement activity, over the past few years. significant enforcement activity has been the result of actions brought by relators, who file complaints in the name of the united states (and if applicable, particular states) under federal and state false claims act statutes and can be entitled to receive up to 30% of total recoveries. also, violations of the false claims act can result in treble damages, and each false claim submitted can be subject to a penalty of up to $11,000 per claim. these healthcare fraud laws and regulations, among other things, (i) prohibit persons from soliciting, offering, receiving or paying any remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient for treatment or to induce the ordering, purchasing, leasing or arranging for or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing of items or services that are in any way paid for by government-sponsored healthcare programs and (ii) impose a number of restrictions upon referring physicians and providers of designated health services under government healthcare programs. while we believe that we are substantially compliant with all applicable laws, many of the regulations applicable to us are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts. they may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil and criminal penalties, including the loss of licenses or our ability to participate in federal and state healthcare programs. 21 table of contents if we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to the confidentiality of sensitive personal information or standards in electronic health data transmissions, we could be required to make significant changes to our products, or incur penalties or other liabilities. state, federal and foreign laws, such as the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, regulate the confidentiality of sensitive personal information and the circumstances under which such information may be released. these measures may govern the disclosure and use of confidential personal and patient medical record information and may require the users of such information to implement specified security measures, and to notify individuals in the event of privacy and security breaches. evolving laws and regulations in this area could restrict the ability of our customers to obtain, use or disseminate patient information, or could require us to incur significant additional costs to re-design our products in a timely manner to reflect these legal requirements, either of which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. other health information standards, such as regulations under hipaa, establish standards regarding electronic health data transmissions and transaction code set rules for specified electronic transactions, for example transactions involving claims submissions to third party payers. these also continue to evolve and are often unclear and difficult to apply. in addition, under the federal health information technology for economic and clinical health act ( hitech act ), which was passed in 2009, some of our businesses that were previously only indirectly subject to federal hipaa privacy and security rules became directly subject to such rules because the businesses serve as business associates to our customers. additional rules under the hitech act are expected to be issued in early 2012, further expanding the privacy and security requirements applicable to some of our businesses. failure to maintain the confidentiality of sensitive personal information in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements, or to abide by electronic health data transmission standards, could expose us to breach of contract claims, fines and penalties, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation. our international operations are subject to inherent risks that could adversely affect our operating results. international operations are subject to risks that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the risks that our international operations are subject to include, among other things: difficulties and costs relating to staffing and managing foreign operations; difficulties in establishing channels of distribution; fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies; longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions; repatriation of cash from our foreign operations to the united states; regulatory requirements; unexpected difficulties in importing or exporting our products; imposition of import/export duties, quotas, sanctions or penalties; difficulties and delays inherent in sourcing products and contract manufacturing in foreign markets; limitations on our ability under local laws to protect our intellectual property; unexpected regulatory, legal, economic and political changes in foreign markets; civil disturbances, geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism, war or political or military coups; and public health emergencies. 22 table of contents our expansion through acquisitions and joint ventures involves risks. we have expanded our domestic and international markets in part through acquisitions and joint ventures, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions and enter into joint ventures in the future. such transactions involve numerous risks, including possible adverse effects on our operating results or the market price of our common stock. some of our acquisitions and future acquisitions may also give rise to an obligation by us to make contingent payments or to satisfy certain repurchase obligations, which payments could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, integrating acquired businesses and joint ventures: may result in a loss of customers or product lines of the acquired businesses or joint ventures; requires significant management attention; may place significant demands on our operations, information systems and financial resources; and results in additional acquisition and integration expenses. there can be no assurance that our future acquisitions or joint ventures will be successful. our ability to continue to successfully effect acquisitions and joint ventures will depend upon the following: the availability of suitable acquisition or joint venture candidates at acceptable prices; our ability to consummate such transactions, which could potentially be prohibited due to u.s. or foreign antitrust regulations; the availability of financing on acceptable terms, in the case of non-stock transactions; and the liquidity of our investments and our ability to raise capital could be affected by the financial credit markets. our acquisitions may not result in the benefits and revenue growth we expect. we are in the process of integrating companies that we acquired and including the operations, services, products and personnel of each company within our management policies, procedures and strategies. we cannot be sure that we will achieve the benefits of revenue growth that we expect from these acquisitions or that we will not incur unforeseen additional costs or expenses in connection with these acquisitions. to effectively manage our expected future growth, we must continue to successfully manage our integration of these companies and continue to improve our operational systems, internal procedures, working capital management, financial and operational controls. if we fail in any of these areas, our business could be adversely affected. we face inherent risk of exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury. our business involves a risk of product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business, and from time to time we are named as a defendant in cases as a result of our distribution of pharmaceutical products, medical devices, bone regeneration and other healthcare products. additionally, we own interests in companies that manufacture certain dental products. as a result, we are subject to the potential risk of product liability or other claims relating to the manufacture and distribution of products by those entities. one of the potential risks we face in the distribution of our products is liability resulting from counterfeit or tainted products infiltrating the supply chain. in addition, some of the products that we transport and sell are considered hazardous materials. the improper handling of such materials or accidents involving the transportation of such materials could subject us to liability. we have various insurance policies, including product liability insurance, covering risks and in amounts that we consider adequate. in many cases in which we have been sued in connection with products manufactured by others, the manufacturer of the product provides us with indemnification. there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost, or that indemnification agreements will provide us with adequate protection. a successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance or not covered by indemnification agreements, or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us, could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. 23 table of contents our technology segment depends upon continued software and e-services product development, technical support and successful marketing. competition among companies supplying practice management software and/or e-services is intense and increasing. our future sales of practice management software and e-services will depend on, among other factors: the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs; our ability to enhance our products and services; and our ability to provide ongoing technical support. we cannot be sure that we will be successful in introducing and marketing new software, software enhancements or e-services, or that such software, software enhancements and e-services will be released on time or accepted by the market. our software and applicable e-services products, like software products generally, may contain undetected errors or bugs when introduced or as new versions are released. we cannot be sure that future problems with post-release software errors or bugs will not occur. any such defective software may result in increased expenses related to the software and could adversely affect our relationships with the customers using such software. we do not have any patents on our software or e-services, and rely upon copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as contractual and common law protections. we cannot provide assurance that such legal protections will be available or enforceable to protect our software or e-services products. we may not be able to respond to technological change effectively. traditional healthcare supply and distribution relationships are being challenged by electronic online commerce solutions. our distribution business is characterized by rapid technological developments and intense competition. the continued advancement of online commerce will require us to cost-effectively adapt to changing technologies, to enhance existing services and to develop and introduce a variety of new services to address changing demands of consumers and our clients on a timely basis, particularly in response to competitive offerings. our inability to anticipate and effectively respond to changes on a timely basis could have an adverse effect on our business. risks generally associated with our information systems could adversely affect our results of operations. we rely on information systems (is) in our business to obtain, rapidly process, analyze and manage data to, among other things: maintain and manage worldwide systems to facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution centers; receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis; manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; process payments to suppliers; and maintain certain of our customers' electronic medical records. a cyber-attack that bypasses our is security systems causing an is security breach may lead to a material disruption of our is business systems and/or the loss of business information resulting in adverse business impact. risks may include, among other things: future results could be adversely affected due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property; operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of is systems and subsequent clean-up and mitigation activities; and negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our customers, partners or industry peers. our results of operations could be adversely affected if our is systems are interrupted, damaged by unforeseen events, cyber-attacks or fail for any extended period of time. 24 table of contents we have various insurance policies, including cyber liability insurance, covering risks and in amounts that we consider adequate. there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost. successful claims for misappropriation or release of confidential or personal data brought against us in excess of available insurance or fines or other penalties assessed or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us, could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. certain provisions in our governing documents and other documents to which we are a party may discourage third-party offers to acquire us that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price of their shares. the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, may discourage acquisition bids and may limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions, among other things: require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 60% of the shares of common stock entitled to vote to approve a merger, consolidation, or a sale, lease, transfer or exchange of all or substantially all of our assets; and require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our common stock entitled to vote to (i) remove a director; and (ii) to amend or repeal our by-laws, with certain limited exceptions. in addition, our 1994 stock incentive plan and 1996 non-employee director stock incentive plan provide for accelerated vesting of stock options upon a change in control. these incentive plans also authorize the committee under the plans to provide for accelerated vesting of other types of equity awards in connection with a change in control at grant or thereafter, and certain other awards made under these incentive plans (such as restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards) accelerate upon a change in control or upon certain termination events in connection with a change in control. further, certain agreements between us and our executive officers provide for increased severance payments and certain benefits if those executive officers are terminated without cause by the company or if they terminate for good reason in each case, within two years after a change in control or within ninety days prior to the effective date of the change in control or after the first public announcement of the pendency of the change in control. tax legislation initiatives could adversely affect our net earnings and tax liabilities. we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the united states federal, state and local governments, as well as foreign jurisdictions. from time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. there can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. in addition, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. although we believe that our historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks, which include changes in interest rates, as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates as measured against the u.s. dollar and each other, and changes to the credit markets. we attempt to minimize these risks by using an interest rate cap agreement and foreign currency forward contracts and through maintaining counter-party credit limits. these hedging activities provide only limited protection against interest rate and currency exchange and credit risks. factors that could influence the effectiveness of our programs include volatility of the interest rate and currency markets and availability of hedging instruments and liquidity of the credit markets. all interest rate cap and foreign currency forward contracts that we enter into are components of hedging programs and are entered into for the sole purpose of hedging an existing or anticipated interest rate or currency exposure. we do not enter into such contracts for speculative purposes. we manage our credit risks by diversifying our investments, maintaining a strong balance sheet and having multiple sources of capital. interest rate hedges on may 27, 2011, bahs refinanced the terms and amount of its debt into three separate components. interest on the refinanced debt ranges from libor plus a margin of 3% to libor plus a margin of 3.25%. one component of the refinanced debt contains a provision for minimum interest to be charged at a libor floor of 1.25%. the revised debt agreement contains a provision that requires bahs to hedge risks related to potential rising interest rates. as a result, bahs has entered into series of interest rate caps, with a notional amount of $160.0 million, protecting against libor interest rates rising above 3% through march 30, 2012. as of december 31, 2011, the fair value of our interest rate cap agreements recorded in current and other non-current assets in our consolidated balance sheet was $0, which represented the amount that would be received upon unwinding the interest rate cap agreements based on market conditions at that time. changes in the fair value of these interest rate cap agreements are reflected as an adjustment to current and non-current assets or liabilities with an offsetting adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income since the hedge is deemed fully effective. foreign currency agreements the value of certain foreign currencies as compared to the u.s. dollar may affect our financial results. fluctuations in exchange rates may positively or negatively affect our revenues, gross margins, operating expenses and retained earnings, all of which are expressed in u.s. dollars. where we deem it prudent, we engage in hedging programs using primarily foreign currency forward contracts aimed at limiting the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on earnings. we purchase short-term (i.e., 18 months or less) foreign currency forward contracts to protect against currency exchange risks associated with intercompany loans due from our international subsidiaries and the payment of merchandise purchases to foreign suppliers. we do not hedge the translation of foreign currency profits into u.s. dollars, as we regard this as an accounting exposure, not an economic exposure. as of december 31, 2011, the net fair value of our foreign currency exchange agreements, which expire through december 27, 2012, recorded in other current liabilities was $0.8 million, as determined by quoted market prices. a hypothetical 5% change in the value of the u.s. dollar would change the fair value of our foreign currency exchange agreements by $(1.7) million. short-term investments we limit our credit risk with respect to our cash equivalents, available-for-sale securities, short-term investments and derivative instruments, by monitoring the credit worthiness of the financial institutions who are the counter-parties to such financial instruments. as a risk management policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure by diversifying and utilizing numerous investment grade counter-parties. 53 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors for a discussion of additional burdens, risks and regulatory developments that may affect our results of operations and financial condition. proprietary rights we hold trademarks relating to the henry schein name and logo, as well as certain other trademarks. pursuant to agreements executed in connection with our reorganization in 1994, both henry schein, inc. and schein pharmaceutical, inc. (which was acquired by watson pharmaceuticals, inc. in 2000), a company previously engaged in the manufacture and distribution of multi-source pharmaceutical products, are entitled to use the schein name in connection with their respective businesses, but schein pharmaceutical, inc. must always use schein in combination with the word pharmaceutical and is not entitled to use the name henry schein or to use schein alone or with any other word (other than pharmaceutical ). we intend to protect our trademarks to the fullest extent practicable. employees as of december 29, 2012, we employed more than 15,000 full-time employees, including approximately 1,650 telesales representatives, 3,300 field sales consultants, including equipment sales specialists, 2,925 warehouse employees, 725 computer programmers and technicians, 1,475 management employees and 5,550 office, clerical and administrative employees. over 315 or 2.1% of our employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements. we believe that our relations with our employees are excellent. available information we make available free of charge through our internet web site, www.henryschein.com , our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, statements of beneficial ownership of securities on forms 3, 4 and 5 and amendments to these reports and statements filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) and section 16 of the securities exchange act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the united states securities and exchange commission, or sec. the above information is also available at the sec's office of investor education and advocacy at united states securities and exchange commission, 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549-0213 or obtainable by calling the sec at (800) 732-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet web site at www.sec.gov , where the above information can be viewed. our principal executive offices are located at 135 duryea road, melville, new york 11747, and our telephone number is (631) 843-5500. unless the context specifically requires otherwise, the terms the company, henry schein, we, us and our mean henry schein, inc., a delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. 14 table of contents executive officers of the registrant the following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers: name age position stanley m. bergman 63 chairman, chief executive officer, director gerald a. benjamin 60 executive vice president, chief administrative officer, director james p. breslawski 59 president, chief operating officer, chief executive officer, henry schein global dental, director leonard a. david 64 senior vice president, chief compliance officer james harding 57 senior vice president, chief technology officer stanley komaroff 77 senior advisor mark e. mlotek 57 executive vice president, chief strategic officer, director steven paladino 55 executive vice president, chief financial officer, director michael racioppi 58 senior vice president, chief merchandising officer lonnie shoff 54 president and chief executive officer, global animal health and strategic partnerships michael zack 60 president, international group stanley m. bergman has been our chairman and chief executive officer since 1989 and a director since 1982. mr. bergman held the position of president from 1989 to 2005. mr. bergman held the position of executive vice president from 1985 to 1989 and vice president of finance and administration from 1980 to 1985. gerald a. benjamin has been our executive vice president and chief administrative officer since 2000 and a director since 1994. prior to holding his current position, mr. benjamin was senior vice president of administration and customer satisfaction since 1993. mr. benjamin was vice president of distribution operations from 1990 to 1992 and director of materials management from 1988 to 1990. before joining us in 1988, mr. benjamin was employed for 13 years in various management positions at est e lauder, inc., where his last position was director of materials planning and control. james p. breslawski has been our president and chief operating officer since 2005 and a director since 1992. mr. breslawski is also the chief executive officer of our henry schein global dental group. mr. breslawski held the position of executive vice president and president of u.s. dental from 1990 to 2005, with primary responsibility for the north american dental group. between 1980 and 1990, mr. breslawski held various positions with us, including chief financial officer, vice president of finance and administration and controller. leonard a. david has been our senior vice president and chief compliance officer since 2006. mr. david held the position of vice president and chief compliance officer from 2005 to 2006. mr. david held the position of vice president of human resources and special counsel from 1995 to 2005. mr. david held the position of vice president, general counsel and secretary from 1990 through 1994 and practiced corporate and business law for eight years prior to joining us. james harding has been our chief technology officer since 2005 and senior vice president since 2001. prior to holding his current position, mr. harding was chief information officer since 2001, with primary responsibility for worldwide information technology. stanley komaroff has been our senior advisor since 2003. prior to joining us, mr. komaroff was a partner for 35 years in the law firm of proskauer rose llp, counsel to us. he served as chairman of that firm from 1991 to 1999. 15 table of contents mark e. mlotek has been executive vice president and chief strategic officer since 2004. mr. mlotek was senior vice president of corporate business development from 2000 to 2004. prior to that, mr. mlotek was vice president, general counsel and secretary from 1994 to 1999 and became a director in 1995. prior to joining us, mr. mlotek was a partner in the law firm of proskauer rose llp, counsel to us, specializing in mergers and acquisitions, corporate reorganizations and tax law from 1989 to 1994. steven paladino has been our executive vice president and chief financial officer since 2000. prior to holding his current position, mr. paladino was senior vice president and chief financial officer from 1993 to 2000 and has been a director since 1992. from 1990 to 1992, mr. paladino served as vice president and treasurer and from 1987 to 1990 served as corporate controller. before joining us, mr. paladino was employed in public accounting for seven years, most recently with the international accounting firm of bdo usa, llp. mr. paladino is a certified public accountant. michael racioppi has been our senior vice president, chief merchandising officer since 2008. prior to holding his current position, mr. racioppi was president of the medical division from 2000 to 2008 and interim president from 1999 to 2000, and corporate vice president from 1994 to 2008. mr. racioppi served as senior director, corporate merchandising from 1992 to 1994. before joining us in 1992, mr. racioppi was employed by ketchum distributors, inc. as the vice president of purchasing and marketing. lonnie shoff has been president and chief executive officer of the global animal health and strategic partnerships group since 2009. prior to joining us, ms. shoff was employed with roche diagnostics, where she held a series of positions of increasing responsibility in the united states and switzerland over the past 20 years, most recently as senior vice president general manager, applied science. michael zack has been president of our international group since 2006. mr. zack held the position of senior vice president of our international group from 1989 to 2006. mr. zack was employed by polymer technology (a subsidiary of bausch &amp; lomb) as vice president of international operations from 1984 to 1989 and by gruenenthal gmbh as manager of international subsidiaries from 1975 to 1984. 16 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the risks described below could have a material adverse impact on our business, reputation, financial condition or the trading price of our common stock. although it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties, they may include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider not to be material to our operations. you should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all risks and uncertainties. the order in which these factors appear should not be construed to indicate their relative importance or priority. the health care products distribution industry is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete successfully. we compete with numerous companies, including several major manufacturers and distributors. some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, which could allow them to compete more successfully. most of our products are available from several sources and our customers tend to have relationships with several distributors. competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market particular products, which we would then be unable to market. manufacturers also could increase their efforts to sell directly to end-users and thereby eliminate or reduce our role and that of other distributors. industry consolidation among health care products distributors, price competition, the unavailability of products, whether due to our inability to gain access to products or to interruptions in supply from manufacturers, or the emergence of new competitors also could increase competition. in the future, we may be unable to compete successfully and competitive pressures may reduce our revenues. because substantially all of the products that we distribute are not manufactured by us, we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture and supply of substantially all of our products. we obtain substantially all of our products from third-party suppliers. generally, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to supply products to us. therefore, suppliers may not provide the products we need in the quantities we request. because we generally do not control the actual production of the products we sell, we may be subject to delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions outside of our control. in the event that any of our third-party suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to continue to provide the products in required volumes, we would need to identify and obtain acceptable replacement sources on a timely basis. there is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain such alternative sources of supply on a timely basis, if at all. an extended interruption in the supply of our products, including the supply of our influenza vaccine and any other high sales volume product, would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, which most likely would adversely affect the value of our common stock. our revenues depend on our relationships with capable sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers of the products that we distribute. our future operating results depend on our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers. if we fail to maintain our existing relationships with such persons or fail to acquire relationships with such key persons in the future, our business may be adversely affected. our future success is substantially dependent upon our senior management. our future success is substantially dependent upon the efforts and abilities of members of our existing senior management, particularly stanley m. bergman, chairman and chief executive officer, among others. the loss of the services of mr. bergman could have a material adverse effect on our business. we have an employment agreement with mr. bergman. we do not currently have key man life insurance policies on any of our employees. competition for senior management is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel. 17 table of contents we experience fluctuations in quarterly earnings. as a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. our business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly fluctuations. net sales and operating profits generally have been higher in the third and fourth quarters due to the timing of sales of seasonal products (including influenza vaccine, equipment and software products), purchasing patterns of office-based health care practitioners and year-end promotions. net sales and operating profits generally have been lower in the first quarter, primarily due to increased sales in the prior two quarters. we expect our historical seasonality of sales to continue in the foreseeable future. quarterly results may also be adversely affected by a variety of other factors, including: timing and amount of sales and marketing expenditures; timing of pricing changes offered by our vendors; timing of the introduction of new products and services by our vendors; timing of the release of upgrades and enhancements to our technology-related products and services; changes in or availability of vendor contracts or rebate programs; vendor rebates based upon attaining certain growth goals; changes in the way vendors introduce or deliver products to market; costs of developing new applications and services; exclusivity requirements with certain vendors may prohibit us from distributing competitive products manufactured by other vendors; loss of sales representatives; costs related to acquisitions and/or integrations of technologies or businesses; costs associated with our self-insured medical and dental insurance programs; general market and economic conditions, as well as those specific to the health care industry and related industries; our success in establishing or maintaining business relationships; unexpected difficulties in developing and manufacturing products; product demand and availability or recalls by manufacturers; exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury; increases in the cost of shipping or service issues with our third-party shippers; restructuring costs; and changes in accounting principles. any change in one or more of these or other factors could cause our annual or quarterly operating results to fluctuate. if our operating results do not meet market expectations, our stock price may decline. 18 table of contents expansion of group purchasing organizations ( gpo ) or provider networks and the multi-tiered costing structure may place us at a competitive disadvantage. the medical products industry is subject to a multi-tiered costing structure, which can vary by manufacturer and/or product. under this structure, certain institutions can obtain more favorable prices for medical products than we are able to obtain. the multi-tiered costing structure continues to expand as many large integrated health care providers and others with significant purchasing power, such as gpos, demand more favorable pricing terms. additionally, the formation of provider networks and gpos may shift purchasing decisions to entities or persons with whom we do not have a historical relationship. this may threaten our ability to compete effectively, which would in turn negatively impact our results of operations. although we are seeking to obtain similar terms from manufacturers and obtain access to lower prices demanded by gpo contracts or other contracts and seeking to develop relationships with provider networks and new gpos, we cannot assure such terms will be obtained or contracts will be executed. increases in the cost of shipping or service issues with our third-party shippers could harm our business. shipping is a significant expense in the operation of our business. we ship almost all of our orders through third-party delivery services, and typically bear the cost of shipment. accordingly, any significant increase in shipping rates could have an adverse effect on our operating results. similarly, strikes or other service interruptions by those shippers could cause our operating expenses to rise and adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis. uncertain global macro-economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. uncertain global macro-economic conditions that affect the economy and the economic outlook of the united states, europe and other parts of the world could adversely affect our customers and vendors, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. these uncertainties, including, among other things, sovereign debt levels, the inability of political institutions to effectively resolve actual or perceived economic, currency or budgetary crises or issues, consumer confidence, unemployment levels (and a corresponding increase in the uninsured and underinsured population), interest rates, availability of capital, fuel and energy costs, tax rates, health care costs and the threat or outbreak of terrorism or public unrest, could adversely impact our customers and vendors, which could adversely affect us. government debt and/or budget crises may lead to reductions in government spending in certain countries, which could reduce overall health care spending, and/or higher income or corporate taxes, which could depress spending overall. additionally, recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending may cause customers to reduce, modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may cause vendors to reduce their output or change their terms of sales. we generally sell products to customers with payment terms. if customers' cash flow or operating and financial performance deteriorates, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment to us. likewise, for similar reasons vendors may restrict credit or impose different payment terms. any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for our products and/or services or any demands by vendors for different payment terms may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us. our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us. 19 table of contents the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. a variety of factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including: the publication of earnings estimates or other research reports and speculation in the press or investment community; changes in our industry and competitors; our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and prospects; stock repurchases; any future issuances of our common stock, which may include primary offerings for cash, stock splits, issuances in connection with business acquisitions, restricted stock/units and the grant or exercise of stock options from time to time; general market and economic conditions; and any outbreak or escalation of hostilities in areas where we do business. in addition, the nasdaq stock market can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies listed on nasdaq. broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. this type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which would have an adverse effect on our business. the health care industry is experiencing changes that could adversely affect our business. the health care industry is highly regulated and subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. in recent years, the health care industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including: trends toward managed care; consolidation of health care distribution companies; consolidation of health care manufacturers; collective purchasing arrangements and consolidation among office-based health care practitioners; and changes in reimbursements to customers, as well as growing enforcement activities (and related monetary recoveries) by governmental officials. both our own profit margins and the profit margins of our customers may be adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services or changing the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined. if we are unable to react effectively to these and other changes in the health care industry, our operating results could be adversely affected. in addition, the enactment of significant health care reforms could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. the implementation of the health care reform law could adversely affect our business. the patient protection and affordable care act as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act, each enacted in march 2010, generally known as the health care reform law, significantly expand health insurance coverage to uninsured americans and changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private payers. we expect expansion of access to health insurance to increase the demand for our products and services, but other provisions of the health care reform law could affect us adversely. additionally, further federal and state proposals for health care reform are likely. we cannot predict what further reform proposals, if any, will be adopted, when they may be adopted, or what impact they may have on us. 20 table of contents the health care reform law contains many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and to reduce costs of medicare and medicaid, including imposing a 2.3% excise tax on domestic sales of medical devices by manufacturers and importers beginning in 2013, and a fee on branded prescription drugs and biologics that was implemented in 2011, both of which may adversely affect sales and cost of goods sold. for example, (i) where we purchase medical devices from third-party manufacturers, the manufacturers may increase their prices to cover their payment of the excise tax and our costs to purchase such medical devices may therefore increase and (ii) where we manufacture medical devices or are the importer of record, our cost of goods sold have increased because we are subject to paying the excise tax. the implementation of the reporting and disclosure obligations of the physician payment sunshine act provisions of the health care reform law could adversely affect our business. a health care reform law provision, generally referred to as the physician payment sunshine act, imposed new reporting and disclosure requirements for drug and device manufacturers with regard to payments or other transfers of value made to certain practitioners (including physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals), and for such manufacturers and group purchasing organizations, with regard to certain ownership interests held by physicians in the reporting entity. implementation had been delayed pending the issuance of applicable rules by the centers for medicare and medicaid services ( cms ). on february 1, 2013, cms released the final rule to implement the physician payment sunshine act. the final rule provides that data collection activities begin on august 1, 2013, and first disclosure reports are due by march 31, 2014 for the period august 1, 2013 through december 31, 2013. on or about june 1, 2014, cms will publish information from these reports, including amounts transferred and physician, dentist and teaching hospital identities, in a national publicly available data bank. the final rule implementing the physician payment sunshine act is complex, ambiguous, and broad in scope, and we are in the process of analyzing its application to our businesses. for example, the final rule is unclear as to whether the physician payment sunshine act requires that wholesale drug and device distributors that take title to the products they distribute, such as we generally do, are to be treated as applicable manufacturers subject to full reporting requirements. the cms commentary on the final rule indicates that they are; however, this interpretation appears to be inconsistent with the language of the physician payment sunshine act. in addition, because certain of our subsidiaries manufacture drugs and devices, we will in any event likely be required to collect and report detailed information regarding certain financial relationships we have with physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals. it is difficult to predict how the new requirements may impact existing relationships among manufacturers, distributors, physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals. the physician payment sunshine act preempts similar state reporting laws, although we or our subsidiaries may be required to continue to report under certain of such state laws. while we expect to have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to comply with the physician payment sunshine act requirements, our compliance with the new final rule is likely to pose additional costs on us. failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could adversely affect our business. our business is subject to requirements under various local, state, federal and international laws and regulations applicable to the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices, and human cells, tissue, and cellular and tissue-based products, also known as hct/p products. among the federal laws with which we must comply are the controlled substances act, the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, as amended, and section 361 of the public health services act. among other things, such laws, and the regulations promulgated thereunder: regulate the storage and distribution, labeling, packaging, handling, reporting, record keeping, introduction, manufacturing and marketing of drugs, hct/p products and medical devices; subject us to inspection by the united states food and drug administration and the united states drug enforcement administration; regulate the storage, transportation and disposal of certain of our products that are considered hazardous materials; require us to advertise and promote our drugs and devices in accordance with applicable united states food and drug administration requirements; require registration with the united states food and drug administration and the united states drug enforcement administration and various state agencies; 21 table of contents require record keeping and documentation of transactions involving drug products; require us to design and operate a system to identify and report suspicious orders of controlled substances to the united states drug enforcement agency; require us to manage returns of products that have been recalled and subject us to inspection of our recall procedures and activities; and impose reporting requirements if a pharmaceutical, hct/p products or medical device causes serious illness, injury or death. applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations also may require us to meet various standards relating to, among other things, licensure or registration, sales and marketing practices, product integrity and supply tracking to the manufacturer of the product, personnel, privacy and security of health or other personal information, installation, maintenance and repair of equipment, and the importation and exportation of products. our business also is subject to requirements of similar and other foreign governmental laws and regulations affecting our operations abroad. the united states food and drug administration and united states drug enforcement administration have recently increased their regulatory and enforcement activities. the failure to comply with any of these regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or the imposition of any additional laws and regulations, could negatively affect our business. there can be no assurance that current government regulations will not adversely affect our business. the costs to us associated with complying with the various applicable statutes and regulations, as they now exist and as they may be modified, could be material. allegations by a governmental body that we have not complied with these laws could have a material adverse impact on our businesses. if it is determined that we have not complied with these laws, we are potentially subject to penalties including warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, mandatory recall of product, seizure of product and injunction, and suspension or limitation of product sale and distribution. if we enter into settlement agreements to resolve allegations of non-compliance, we could be required to make settlement payments or be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the loss of licenses. non-compliance with government requirements could adversely affect our ability to participate in federal and state government health care programs, and damage our reputation. if we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to health care fraud, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations, which could adversely affect our business. we are subject to federal and state (and similar foreign) laws and regulations relating to health care fraud. some of these laws, referred to as false claims laws , prohibit the submission or causing the submission of false or fraudulent claims for reimbursement to federal, state and other health care payers and programs. other laws, referred to as anti-kickback laws , prohibit soliciting, offering, receiving or paying remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient or ordering, purchasing, leasing or arranging for or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing, of items or services that are paid for by federal, state and other health care payers and programs. health care fraud measures may implicate, for example, our relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers, our pricing and incentive programs for physician and dental practices, and our dental and physician practice management products that offer billing-related functionality. the government has expressed concerns about financial relationships between suppliers on the one hand and physicians and dentists on the other. as a result, we regularly review and revise our marketing practices as necessary to facilitate compliance. we are now engaged in discussions with the government that may lead to changes in certain of our marketing practices and, potentially, payments which we do not expect to be material. in addition, under the reporting and disclosure obligations of the physician payment sunshine act provisions of the health care reform law, by the second quarter of 2014, the general public and government officials will be provided with new access to detailed information with regard to payments or other transfers of value to certain practitioners (including physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals) by applicable drug and device manufacturers subject to such reporting and disclosure obligations, which is likely to include us. this information may lead to greater scrutiny, which may result in modifications to established practices and additional costs. 22 table of contents the applicable requirements have been subject to varying interpretations, as well as heightened enforcement activity, over the past few years. also, significant enforcement activity has been the result of actions brought by relators, who file complaints in the name of the united states (and if applicable, particular states) under federal and state false claims laws, and under the federal false claims act can be entitled to receive up to 30% of total recoveries. violations of the federal false claims act can result in treble damages, and each false claim submitted can be subject to a penalty of up to $11,000 per claim. the health care reform law significantly strengthened the federal false claims act and federal anti-kickback law provisions, which could lead to the possibility of increased whistleblower or relator suits, and among other things made clear that a federal anti-kickback law violation can be a basis for federal false claims act liability. we also are subject to certain laws and regulations concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and anti-bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records, which have been the focus of increasing enforcement activity in recent years. failure to comply with health care fraud laws and regulations could result in significant civil and criminal penalties and costs, including the loss of licenses and the ability to participate in federal and state health care programs, and could have a material adverse impact on our business. also, these laws may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations or incur substantial defense and settlement expenses. even unsuccessful challenges by regulatory authorities or private relators could result in reputational harm and the incurring of substantial costs. in addition, many of these laws are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, and have been subject to frequent modification and varied interpretation by prosecutorial, regulatory authorities, increasing compliance risks. while we believe that we are substantially compliant with the foregoing laws and regulations promulgated thereunder, and have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, we cannot predict whether changes in applicable law, or interpretation of laws, or changes in our services or marketing practices in response, could adversely affect our business. if we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to the confidentiality of sensitive personal information or standards in electronic health data transmissions, we could be required to make significant changes to our products, or incur penalties or other liabilities. state, federal and foreign laws, such as the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, regulate the confidentiality of sensitive personal information and the circumstances under which such information may be released. these measures may govern the disclosure and use of personal and patient medical record information and may require users of such information to implement specified security measures, and to notify individuals in the event of privacy and security breaches. evolving laws and regulations in this area could restrict the ability of our customers to obtain, use or disseminate patient information, or could require us to incur significant additional costs to re-design our products in a timely manner to reflect these legal requirements, either of which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. other health information standards, such as regulations under hipaa, establish standards regarding electronic health data transmissions and transaction code set rules for specified electronic transactions, for example transactions involving claims submissions to third party payers. these also continue to evolve and are often unclear and difficult to apply. in addition, under the federal health information technology for economic and clinical health act ( hitech act ), which was passed in 2009, some of our businesses that were previously only indirectly subject to federal hipaa privacy and security rules became directly subject to such rules because the businesses serve as business associates to our customers. on january 17, 2013, the office for civil rights of the department of health and human services released a final rule implementing the hitech act and making certain other changes to hipaa privacy and security requirements. compliance with the rule is required by september 23, 2013, and will increase the requirements applicable to some of our businesses. failure to maintain the confidentiality of sensitive personal information in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements, or to abide by electronic health data transmission standards, could expose us to breach of contract claims, fines and penalties, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation. our global operations are subject to inherent risks that could adversely affect our operating results. global operations are subject to risks that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the risks that our global operations are subject to include, among other things: difficulties and costs relating to staffing and managing foreign operations; 23 table of contents difficulties in establishing channels of distribution; fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies; longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions; repatriation of cash from our foreign operations to the united states; regulatory requirements; anti-bribery, anti-corruption and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records; unexpected difficulties in importing or exporting our products; imposition of import/export duties, quotas, sanctions or penalties; difficulties and delays inherent in sourcing products and contract manufacturing in foreign markets; limitations on our ability under local laws to protect our intellectual property; unexpected regulatory, legal, economic and political changes in foreign markets; civil disturbances, geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism, war or political or military coups; and public health emergencies. our expansion through acquisitions and joint ventures involves risks. we have expanded our domestic and international markets in part through acquisitions and joint ventures, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions and enter into joint ventures in the future. such transactions involve numerous risks, including possible adverse effects on our operating results or the market price of our common stock. some of our acquisitions and future acquisitions may also give rise to an obligation by us to make contingent payments or to satisfy certain repurchase obligations, which payments could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, integrating acquired businesses and joint ventures: may result in a loss of customers or product lines of the acquired businesses or joint ventures; requires significant management attention; may place significant demands on our operations, information systems and financial resources; and results in additional acquisition and integration expenses. there can be no assurance that our future acquisitions or joint ventures will be successful. our ability to continue to successfully effect acquisitions and joint ventures will depend upon the following: the availability of suitable acquisition or joint venture candidates at acceptable prices; our ability to consummate such transactions, which could potentially be prohibited due to u.s. or foreign antitrust regulations; the availability of financing on acceptable terms, in the case of non-stock transactions; and the liquidity of our investments and our ability to raise capital could be affected by the financial credit markets. our acquisitions may not result in the benefits and revenue growth we expect. we are in the process of integrating companies that we acquired and including the operations, services, products and personnel of each company within our management policies, procedures and strategies. we cannot be sure that we will achieve the benefits of revenue growth that we expect from these acquisitions or that we will not incur unforeseen additional costs or expenses in connection with these acquisitions. to effectively manage our expected future growth, we must continue to successfully manage our integration of these companies and continue to improve our operational systems, internal procedures, working capital management, and financial and operational controls. if we fail in any of these areas, our business could be adversely affected. 24 table of contents we face inherent risk of exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury. our business involves a risk of product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business, and from time to time we are named as a defendant in cases as a result of our distribution of pharmaceutical products, medical devices, bone regeneration and other health care products. additionally, we own interests in companies that manufacture certain dental products. as a result, we are subject to the potential risk of product liability or other claims relating to the manufacture and distribution of products by those entities. one of the potential risks we face in the distribution of our products is liability resulting from counterfeit or tainted products infiltrating the supply chain. in addition, some of the products that we transport and sell are considered hazardous materials. the improper handling of such materials or accidents involving the transportation of such materials could subject us to liability. we have various insurance policies, including product liability insurance, covering risks and in amounts that we consider adequate. in many cases in which we have been sued in connection with products manufactured by others, the manufacturer of the product provides us with indemnification. there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost, or that indemnification agreements will provide us with adequate protection. a successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance or not covered by indemnification agreements, or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us, could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. our technology segment depends upon continued software and e-services product development, technical support and successful marketing. competition among companies supplying practice management software and/or e-services is intense and increasing. our future sales of practice management software and e-services will depend on, among other factors: the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs; our ability to enhance our products and services to satisfy customer requirements; and our ability to provide ongoing technical support. we cannot be sure that we will be successful in introducing and marketing new software, software enhancements or e-services, or that such software, software enhancements and e-services will be released on time or accepted by the market. our software and applicable e-services products, like software products generally, may contain undetected errors or bugs when introduced or as new versions are released. we cannot be sure that future problems with post-release software errors or bugs will not occur. any such defective software may result in increased expenses related to the software and could adversely affect our relationships with the customers using such software. we do not have any patents on our software or e-services, and rely upon copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as contractual and common law protections. we cannot provide assurance that such legal protections will be available or enforceable to protect our software or e-services products. we may not be able to respond to technological change effectively. traditional health care supply and distribution relationships are being challenged by electronic online commerce solutions. our distribution business is characterized by rapid technological developments and intense competition. the continued advancement of online commerce will require us to cost-effectively adapt to changing technologies, to enhance existing services and to develop and introduce a variety of new services to address changing demands of consumers and our clients on a timely basis, particularly in response to competitive offerings. our inability to anticipate and effectively respond to changes on a timely basis could have an adverse effect on our business. cyber-security risks generally associated with our information systems and our technology products and services could adversely affect our results of operations. we rely on information systems (is) in our business to obtain, rapidly process, analyze and manage data to, among other things: maintain and manage worldwide systems to facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution centers; 25 table of contents receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis; manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; process payments to suppliers; and maintain certain of our customers' electronic medical records. a cyber-attack that bypasses our is security systems causing an is security breach may lead to a material disruption of our is business systems and/or the loss of business information resulting in adverse business impact. risks may include, among other things: future results could be adversely affected due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property; operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of is systems and subsequent clean-up and mitigation activities; and negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our customers, partners or industry peers. our results of operations could be adversely affected if our is systems are interrupted, damaged by unforeseen events, cyber-attacks or fail for any extended period of time. we develop products and provide services to our customers that are technology-based. a cyber-attack that bypasses the security systems of our products or services causing a security breach and/or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products or services could cause significant reputational harm. actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies. although our customer license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to such liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand all legal challenges. failure to maintain the confidentiality of sensitive customer data in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements, or to abide by electronic health data transmission standards, could also expose us to claims, fines and penalties and costs for remediation. additionally, legislative or regulatory action related to cyber-security may increase our costs to develop or implement new technology products and services. we have various insurance policies, including cyber liability insurance, covering risks and in amounts that we consider adequate. there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost. successful claims for misappropriation or release of confidential or personal data brought against us in excess of available insurance or fines or other penalties assessed or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us, could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. certain provisions in our governing documents and other documents to which we are a party may discourage third-party offers to acquire us that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price of their shares. the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, may discourage acquisition bids and may limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions, among other things: require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 60% of the shares of common stock entitled to vote to approve a merger, consolidation, or a sale, lease, transfer or exchange of all or substantially all of our assets; and require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our common stock entitled to vote to (i) remove a director; and (ii) to amend or repeal our by-laws, with certain limited exceptions. 26 table of contents in addition, our 1994 stock incentive plan and 1996 non-employee director stock incentive plan provide for accelerated vesting of stock options upon a change in control. these incentive plans also authorize the committee under the plans to provide for accelerated vesting of other types of equity awards in connection with a change in control at grant or thereafter, and certain other awards made under these incentive plans (such as restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards) accelerate upon a change in control or upon certain termination events in connection with a change in control. further, certain agreements between us and our executive officers provide for increased severance payments and certain benefits if those executive officers are terminated without cause by us or if they terminate for good reason in each case, within two years after a change in control or within ninety days prior to the effective date of the change in control or after the first public announcement of the pendency of the change in control. tax legislation initiatives could adversely affect our net earnings and tax liabilities. we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the united states federal, state and local governments, as well as foreign jurisdictions. from time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. there can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. in addition, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. although we believe that our historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates as measured against the u.s. dollar and each other, and changes to the credit markets. we attempt to minimize these risks by primarily using foreign currency forward contracts and by maintaining counter-party credit limits. these hedging activities provide only limited protection against currency exchange and credit risks. factors that could influence the effectiveness of our hedging programs include currency markets and availability of hedging instruments and liquidity of the credit markets. all foreign currency forward contracts that we enter into are components of hedging programs and are entered into for the sole purpose of hedging an existing or anticipated currency exposure. we do not enter into such contracts for speculative purposes and we manage our credit risks by diversifying our investments, maintaining a strong balance sheet and having multiple sources of capital. foreign currency agreements the value of certain foreign currencies as compared to the u.s. dollar may affect our financial results. fluctuations in exchange rates may positively or negatively affect our revenues, gross margins, operating expenses and retained earnings, all of which are expressed in u.s. dollars. where we deem it prudent, we engage in hedging programs using primarily foreign currency forward contracts aimed at limiting the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on earnings. we purchase short-term (i.e., 18 months or less) foreign currency forward contracts to protect against currency exchange risks associated with intercompany loans due from our international subsidiaries and the payment of merchandise purchases to foreign suppliers. we do not hedge the translation of foreign currency profits into u.s. dollars, as we regard this as an accounting exposure, not an economic exposure. as of december 29, 2012, the net fair value of our foreign currency exchange agreements, which expire through june 26, 2013, was $0.4 million, as determined by quoted market prices. a hypothetical 5% change in the value of the u.s. dollar would change the fair value of our foreign currency exchange agreements by $(0.6) million. short-term investments we limit our credit risk with respect to our cash equivalents, available-for-sale securities, short-term investments and derivative instruments, by monitoring the credit worthiness of the financial institutions who are the counter-parties to such financial instruments. as a risk management policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure by diversifying and utilizing numerous investment grade counter-parties. 56 table of contentsrisk factors 18 risk factors for a discussion of additional burdens, risks and regulatory developments that may affect our results of operations and financial condition. 14 table of contents proprietary rights we hold trademarks relating to the henry schein name and logo, as well as certain other trademarks. pursuant to agreements executed in connection with our reorganization in 1994, both henry schein, inc. and schein pharmaceutical, inc. (which was acquired by watson pharmaceuticals, inc. in 2000), a company previously engaged in the manufacture and distribution of multi-source pharmaceutical products, are entitled to use the schein name in connection with their respective businesses, but schein pharmaceutical, inc. must always use schein in combination with the word pharmaceutical and is not entitled to use the name henry schein or to use schein alone or with any other word (other than pharmaceutical ). we intend to protect our trademarks to the fullest extent practicable. employees as of december 28, 2013, we employed more than 16,000 full-time employees, including approximately 1,700 telesales representatives, 3,400 field sales consultants, including equipment sales specialists, 3,100 warehouse employees, 750 computer programmers and technicians, 1,525 management employees and 5,725 office, clerical and administrative employees. over 320 or 2.0% of our employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements. we believe that our relations with our employees are excellent. available information we make available free of charge through our internet website, www.henryschein.com , our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, statements of beneficial ownership of securities on forms 3, 4 and 5 and amendments to these reports and statements filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) and section 16 of the securities exchange act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the united states securities and exchange commission, or sec. the above information is also available at the sec's office of investor education and advocacy at united states securities and exchange commission, 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549-0213 or obtainable by calling the sec at (800) 732-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet website at www.sec.gov , where the above information can be viewed. our principal executive offices are located at 135 duryea road, melville, new york 11747, and our telephone number is (631) 843-5500. unless the context specifically requires otherwise, the terms the company, henry schein, we, us and our mean henry schein, inc., a delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. 15 table of contents executive officers of the registrant the following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers: name age position stanley m. bergman 64 chairman, chief executive officer, director gerald a. benjamin 61 executive vice president, chief administrative officer, director james p. breslawski 60 president, henry schein and ceo, global dental group, director leonard a. david 65 senior vice president, chief compliance officer michael s. ettinger 52 senior vice president, corporate and legal affairs &amp; secretary james a. harding 58 senior vice president, chief technology officer stanley komaroff 78 senior advisor lorelei mcglynn 50 senior vice president, global human resources and financial operations david c. mckinley 61 president, medical group bob minowitz 55 president, international dental group mark e. mlotek 58 executive vice president, chief strategic officer, director steven paladino 56 executive vice president, chief financial officer, director michael racioppi 59 senior vice president, chief merchandising officer paul rose 56 senior vice president, global supply chain lonnie shoff 55 ceo, global animal health and strategic partnership group walter siegel 54 senior vice president and general counsel stanley m. bergman has been our chairman and chief executive officer since 1989 and a director since 1982. mr. bergman held the position of president from 1989 to 2005. mr. bergman held the position of executive vice president from 1985 to 1989 and vice president of finance and administration from 1980 to 1985. gerald a. benjamin has been our executive vice president and chief administrative officer since 2000 and a director since 1994. prior to holding his current position, mr. benjamin was senior vice president of administration and customer satisfaction since 1993. mr. benjamin was vice president of distribution operations from 1990 to 1992 and director of materials management from 1988 to 1990. before joining us in 1988, mr. benjamin was employed for 13 years in various management positions at est e lauder, inc., where his last position was director of materials planning and control. james p. breslawski has been our president and chief operating officer since 2005 and a director since 1992. mr. breslawski is also the chief executive officer of our henry schein global dental group. mr. breslawski held the position of executive vice president and president of u.s. dental from 1990 to 2005, with primary responsibility for the north american dental group. between 1980 and 1990, mr. breslawski held various positions with us, including chief financial officer, vice president of finance and administration and controller. leonard a. david has been our senior vice president and chief compliance officer since 2006. mr. david held the position of vice president and chief compliance officer from 2005 to 2006. mr. david held the position of vice president of human resources and special counsel from 1995 to 2005. mr. david held the position of vice president, general counsel and secretary from 1990 through 1994 and practiced corporate and business law for eight years prior to joining us. michael s. ettinger has been senior vice president, corporate and legal affairs &amp; secretary since 2013. prior to holding his current position, mr. ettinger served as corporate senior vice president, general counsel &amp; secretary from 2006 to 2013, vice president, general counsel and secretary from 2000 to 2006, vice president and associate general counsel from 1998 to 2000 and associate general counsel from 1994 to 1998. before joining us, mr. ettinger served as a senior associate with bower &amp; gardner and as a member of the tax department at arthur andersen. james a. harding has been our chief technology officer since 2005 and senior vice president since 2001. prior to holding his current position, mr. harding was chief information officer since 2001, with primary responsibility for worldwide information technology. 16 table of contents stanley komaroff has been our senior advisor since 2003. prior to joining us, mr. komaroff was a partner for 35 years in the law firm of proskauer rose llp, counsel to us. he served as chairman of that firm from 1991 to 1999. lorelei mcglynn has served as senior vice president, global human resources and financial operations since 2013. since joining us in 1999, ms. mcglynn has served as vice president, global human resources and financial operations from 2008 to 2013, chief financial officer, international group and vice president of global financial operations from 2002 to 2008 and vice president, finance, north america from 1999 to 2002. prior to joining us, ms. mcglynn served as assistant vice president of finance at adecco corporation. david c. mckinley has been president of henry schein's medical group since 2008. before assuming his current position, mr. mckinley was president of henry schein practice solutions from 2006 to 2008 and president of dental prosthetic solutions from 2005 to 2006. prior to joining us, mr. mckinley served as the group executive for olympus medical north america and as general manager for the bard urology and bard germany businesses. mr. mckinley currently serves on the health industry distributors association (hida) education foundation. bob minowitz has been president of henry schein's international dental group since 2012. up until 2012, mr. minowitz held various roles throughout the company, including president, henry schein european dental group from 2009 to 2012, president, henry schein western europe, middle east and pacific regions from 2006 to 2009, managing director, henry schein u.k. holdings from 2003 to 2006, president henry schein western europe from 2004 to 2006 and president henry schein europe from 2001 to 2004. prior to joining us, mr. minowitz was employed by bristol-myers company as a senior internal auditor. mark e. mlotek has been executive vice president and chief strategic officer since 2004. mr. mlotek was senior vice president of corporate business development from 2000 to 2004. prior to that, mr. mlotek was vice president, general counsel and secretary from 1994 to 1999 and became a director in 1995. prior to joining us, mr. mlotek was a partner in the law firm of proskauer rose llp, counsel to us, specializing in mergers and acquisitions, corporate reorganizations and tax law from 1989 to 1994. steven paladino has been our executive vice president and chief financial officer since 2000. prior to holding his current position, mr. paladino was senior vice president and chief financial officer from 1993 to 2000 and has been a director since 1992. from 1990 to 1992, mr. paladino served as vice president and treasurer and from 1987 to 1990 served as corporate controller. before joining us, mr. paladino was employed in public accounting for seven years, most recently with the international accounting firm of bdo usa, llp. mr. paladino is a certified public accountant. michael racioppi has been our senior vice president, chief merchandising officer since 2008. prior to holding his current position, mr. racioppi was president of the medical division from 2000 to 2008 and interim president from 1999 to 2000, and corporate vice president from 1994 to 2008. mr. racioppi served as senior director, corporate merchandising from 1992 to 1994. before joining us in 1992, mr. racioppi was employed by ketchum distributors, inc. as the vice president of purchasing and marketing. paul rose has served as senior vice president, global supply chain since 2013. prior to assuming his current position, mr. rose served as vice president, global supply chain from 2008 to 2013, vice president, global inventory management from 2004 to 2008 and vice president, inventory management, north america from 2001 to 2004. he also served on the hida supply chain advisory council and as nwda pharmaceutical market committee chairman. lonnie shoff has been chief executive officer of the global animal health and strategic partnerships group since 2009. prior to joining us, ms. shoff was employed with roche diagnostics, where she held a series of positions of increasing responsibility in the united states and switzerland over the past 20 years, most recently as senior vice president general manager, applied science. walter siegel has been senior vice president and general counsel since 2013. prior to joining us, mr. siegel was employed with standard microsystems corporation, a publicly traded global semiconductor company from 2005 to 2012, holding positions of increasing responsibility, most recently as senior vice president, general counsel and secretary. 17 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the risks described below could have a material adverse impact on our business, reputation, financial condition or the trading price of our common stock. although it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties, they may include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider not to be material to our operations. you should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all risks and uncertainties. the order in which these factors appear should not be construed to indicate their relative importance or priority. the health care products distribution industry is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete successfully. we compete with numerous companies, including several major manufacturers and distributors. some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, which could allow them to compete more successfully. most of our products are available from several sources and our customers tend to have relationships with several distributors. competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market particular products, which we would then be unable to market. manufacturers also could increase their efforts to sell directly to end-users and thereby eliminate or reduce our role and that of other distributors. industry consolidation among health care products distributors, price competition, the unavailability of products, whether due to our inability to gain access to products or to interruptions in supply from manufacturers, or the emergence of new competitors also could increase competition. in the future, we may be unable to compete successfully and competitive pressures may reduce our revenues. because substantially all of the products that we distribute are not manufactured by us, we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture and supply of substantially all of our products. we obtain substantially all of our products from third-party suppliers. generally, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to supply products to us. therefore, suppliers may not provide the products we need in the quantities we request. while there is generally more than one source of supply for most of the categories of products we sell, some key suppliers, in the aggregate, supply a significant portion of the products we sell. additionally, because we generally do not control the actual production of the products we sell, we may be subject to delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions outside of our control, including the failure to comply with applicable government requirements. the failure of manufacturers of products regulated by the fda to meet these requirements could result in product recall, cessation of sales or other market disruptions. in the event that any of our third-party suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to continue to provide the products in required volumes, we would need to identify and obtain acceptable replacement sources on a timely basis. there is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain such alternative sources of supply on a timely basis, if at all. an extended interruption in the supply of our products, especially any high sales volume product, would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, which most likely would adversely affect the value of our common stock. our revenues depend on our relationships with capable sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers of the products that we distribute. our future operating results depend on our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers. if we fail to maintain our existing relationships with such persons or fail to acquire relationships with such key persons in the future, our business may be adversely affected. our future success is substantially dependent upon our senior management. our future success is substantially dependent upon the efforts and abilities of members of our existing senior management, particularly stanley m. bergman, chairman and chief executive officer, among others. the loss of the services of mr. bergman could have a material adverse effect on our business. we have an employment agreement with mr. bergman. we do not currently have key man life insurance policies on any of our employees. competition for senior management is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel. 18 table of contents we experience fluctuations in quarterly earnings. as a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. our business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly fluctuations. net sales and operating profits generally have been higher in the third and fourth quarters due to the timing of sales of seasonal products (including influenza vaccine, equipment and software products), purchasing patterns of office-based health care practitioners and year-end promotions. net sales and operating profits generally have been lower in the first quarter, primarily due to increased sales in the prior two quarters. we expect our historical seasonality of sales to continue in the foreseeable future. quarterly results may also be adversely affected by a variety of other factors, including: timing and amount of sales and marketing expenditures; timing of pricing changes offered by our vendors; timing of the introduction of new products and services by our vendors; timing of the release of upgrades and enhancements to our technology-related products and services; changes in or availability of vendor contracts or rebate programs; vendor rebates based upon attaining certain growth goals; changes in the way vendors introduce or deliver products to market; costs of developing new applications and services; our ability to correctly identify customer needs and preferences and predict future needs and preferences; exclusivity requirements with certain vendors may prohibit us from distributing competitive products manufactured by other vendors; loss of sales representatives; costs related to acquisitions and/or integrations of technologies or businesses; costs associated with our self-insured medical and dental insurance programs; general market and economic conditions, as well as those specific to the health care industry and related industries; our success in establishing or maintaining business relationships; unexpected difficulties in developing and manufacturing products; product demand and availability or recalls by manufacturers; exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury; increases in the cost of shipping or service issues with our third-party shippers; restructuring costs; and changes in accounting principles. any change in one or more of these or other factors could cause our annual or quarterly operating results to fluctuate. if our operating results do not meet market expectations, our stock price may decline. 19 table of contents expansion of group purchasing organizations ( gpo ) or provider networks and the multi-tiered costing structure may place us at a competitive disadvantage. the medical products industry is subject to a multi-tiered costing structure, which can vary by manufacturer and/or product. under this structure, certain institutions can obtain more favorable prices for medical products than we are able to obtain. the multi-tiered costing structure continues to expand as many large integrated health care providers and others with significant purchasing power, such as gpos, demand more favorable pricing terms. additionally, the formation of provider networks and gpos may shift purchasing decisions to entities or persons with whom we do not have a historical relationship. this may threaten our ability to compete effectively, which would in turn negatively impact our results of operations. although we are seeking to obtain similar terms from manufacturers, obtain access to lower prices demanded by gpo contracts or other contracts, and develop relationships with provider networks and new gpos, we cannot assure that such terms will be obtained or contracts will be executed. increases in the cost of shipping or service issues with our third-party shippers could harm our business. shipping is a significant expense in the operation of our business. we ship almost all of our orders through third-party delivery services, and typically bear the cost of shipment. accordingly, any significant increase in shipping rates could have an adverse effect on our operating results. similarly, strikes or other service interruptions by those shippers could cause our operating expenses to rise and adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis. uncertain global macro-economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. uncertain global macro-economic conditions that affect the economy and the economic outlook of the united states, europe and other parts of the world could adversely affect our customers and vendors, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. these uncertainties, including, among other things, sovereign debt levels, the inability of political institutions to effectively resolve actual or perceived economic, currency or budgetary crises or issues, consumer confidence, unemployment levels (and a corresponding increase in the uninsured and underinsured population), interest rates, availability of capital, fuel and energy costs, tax rates, health care costs and the threat or outbreak of terrorism or public unrest, could adversely impact our customers and vendors, which could adversely affect us. government debt and/or budget crises may lead to reductions in government spending in certain countries, which could reduce overall health care spending, and/or higher income or corporate taxes, which could depress spending overall. additionally, recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending may cause customers to reduce, modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may cause vendors to reduce their output or change their terms of sale. we generally sell products to customers with payment terms. if customers' cash flow or operating and financial performance deteriorates, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment to us. likewise, for similar reasons vendors may restrict credit or impose different payment terms. any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for our products and/or services or any demands by vendors for different payment terms may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us. our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us. 20 table of contents the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. a variety of factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including: the publication of earnings estimates or other research reports and speculation in the press or investment community; changes in our industry and competitors; our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and prospects; stock repurchases; any future issuances of our common stock, which may include primary offerings for cash, stock splits, issuances in connection with business acquisitions, restricted stock/units and the grant or exercise of stock options from time to time; general market and economic conditions; and any outbreak or escalation of hostilities in areas where we do business. in addition, the nasdaq stock market can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies listed on nasdaq. broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. this type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which would have an adverse effect on our business. the health care industry is experiencing changes that could adversely affect our business. the health care industry is highly regulated and subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. in recent years, the health care industry has undergone significant change driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including: trends toward managed care; consolidation of health care distribution companies; consolidation of health care manufacturers; collective purchasing arrangements and consolidation among office-based health care practitioners; and changes in reimbursements to customers, as well as growing enforcement activities (and related monetary recoveries) by governmental officials. both our own profit margins and the profit margins of our customers may be adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services or changing the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined. if we are unable to react effectively to these and other changes in the health care industry, our operating results could be adversely affected. in addition, the enactment of significant health care reforms could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. the implementation of the health care reform law could adversely affect our business. the patient protection and affordable care act as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act, each enacted in march 2010, generally known as the health care reform law, significantly expand health insurance coverage to uninsured americans and changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private payers. we expect expansion of access to health insurance to increase the demand for our products and services, but other provisions of the health care reform law could affect us adversely. additionally, further federal and state proposals for health care reform are likely. we cannot predict what further reform proposals, if any, will be adopted, when they may be adopted, or what impact they may have on us. the health care reform law contains many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and to reduce costs of medicare and medicaid, including imposing a 2.3% excise tax on domestic sales of many medical devices by manufacturers and importers that began in 2013, and a fee on branded prescription drugs and biologics that was implemented in 2011, both of which may adversely affect sales and cost of goods sold. for example, (i) where we purchase medical devices from third-party manufacturers, the manufacturers may increase their prices to cover their payment of the excise tax and our costs to purchase such medical devices may therefore increase and (ii) where we manufacture medical devices or are the importer of record, our cost of goods sold have increased because we are subject to paying the excise tax. 21 table of contents the implementation of the reporting and disclosure obligations of the physician payment sunshine act provisions of the health care reform law could adversely affect our business. a health care reform law provision, generally referred to as the physician payment sunshine act or open payments program, has imposed new reporting and disclosure requirements for drug and device manufacturers with regard to payments or other transfers of value made to certain practitioners (including physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals), and for such manufacturers and for group purchasing organizations, with regard to certain ownership interests held by physicians in the reporting entity. on february 1, 2013, cms released the final rule to implement the physician payment sunshine act. under this rule, data collection activities began on august 1, 2013, and first disclosure reports are due by march 31, 2014 for the period august 1, 2013 through december 31, 2013. as required under the physician payment sunshine act, cms will publish information from these reports on a publicly available website, including amounts transferred and physician, dentist and teaching hospital identities, which according to cms will be available to the public by september 30, 2014. the final rule implementing the physician payment sunshine act is complex, ambiguous, and broad in scope. cms commentary on the final rule and more recent cms communications indicate that wholesale drug and device distributors which take title to such products are to be treated as applicable manufacturers subject to full reporting requirements. in addition, certain of our subsidiaries manufacture drugs and devices. accordingly, we are required to collect and report detailed information regarding certain financial relationships we have with physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals. it is difficult to predict how the new requirements may impact existing relationships among manufacturers, distributors, physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals. the physician payment sunshine act preempts similar state reporting laws, although we or our subsidiaries may be required to continue to report under certain of such state laws. while we expect to have substantially compliant programs and controls in place to comply with the physician payment sunshine act requirements, our compliance with the new final rule imposes additional costs on us. failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could adversely affect our business. our business is subject to requirements under various local, state, federal and international laws and regulations applicable to the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices, and human cells, tissue, and cellular and tissue-based products, also known as hct/p products. among the federal laws with which we must comply are the controlled substances act, the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, as amended, and section 361 of the public health services act. among other things, such laws, and the regulations promulgated thereunder: regulate the storage and distribution, labeling, packaging, handling, reporting, record keeping, introduction, manufacturing and marketing of drugs, hct/p products and medical devices; subject us to inspection by the fda and the united states drug enforcement administration; regulate the storage, transportation and disposal of certain of our products that are considered hazardous materials; require us to advertise and promote our drugs and devices in accordance with applicable fda requirements; require registration with the fda and the united states drug enforcement administration and various state agencies; require record keeping and documentation of transactions involving drug products; require us to design and operate a system to identify and report suspicious orders of controlled substances to the united states drug enforcement agency; require us to manage returns of products that have been recalled and subject us to inspection of our recall procedures and activities; and impose reporting requirements if a pharmaceutical, hct/p product or medical device causes serious illness, injury or death. 22 table of contents applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations also may require us to meet various standards relating to, among other things, licensure or registration, sales and marketing practices, product integrity and supply tracking to the manufacturer of the product, personnel, privacy and security of health or other personal information, installation, maintenance and repair of equipment, and the importation and exportation of products. our business also is subject to requirements of similar and other foreign governmental laws and regulations affecting our operations abroad. the fda and united states drug enforcement administration have recently increased their regulatory and enforcement activities. the failure to comply with any of these regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or the imposition of any additional laws and regulations, could negatively affect our business. there can be no assurance that current government regulations will not adversely affect our business. the costs to us associated with complying with the various applicable statutes and regulations, as they now exist and as they may be modified, could be material. allegations by a governmental body that we have not complied with these laws could have a material adverse impact on our businesses. if it is determined that we have not complied with these laws, we are potentially subject to penalties including warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, mandatory recall of product, seizure of product and injunction, and suspension or limitation of product sale and distribution. if we enter into settlement agreements to resolve allegations of non-compliance, we could be required to make settlement payments or be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the loss of licenses. non-compliance with government requirements could adversely affect our ability to participate in federal and state government health care programs, and damage our reputation. if we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to health care fraud, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations, which could adversely affect our business. we are subject to federal and state (and similar foreign) laws and regulations relating to health care fraud. some of these laws, referred to as false claims laws, prohibit the submission or causing the submission of false or fraudulent claims for reimbursement to federal, state and other health care payers and programs. other laws, referred to as anti-kickback laws, prohibit soliciting, offering, receiving or paying remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient or ordering, purchasing, leasing or arranging for or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing, of items or services that are paid for by federal, state and other health care payers and programs. health care fraud measures may implicate, for example, our relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers, our pricing and incentive programs for physician and dental practices, and our dental and physician practice management products that offer billing-related functionality. the government has expressed concerns about financial relationships between suppliers on the one hand and physicians and dentists on the other. as a result, we regularly review and revise our marketing practices as necessary to facilitate compliance. in addition, under the reporting and disclosure obligations of the physician payment sunshine act provisions of the health care reform law, by september 30, 2014, the general public and government officials will be provided with new access to detailed information with regard to payments or other transfers of value to certain practitioners (including physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals) by applicable drug and device manufacturers subject to such reporting and disclosure obligations, which includes us. this information may lead to greater scrutiny, which may result in modifications to established practices and additional costs. the applicable requirements have been subject to varying interpretations, as well as heightened enforcement activity, over the past few years. also, significant enforcement activity has been the result of actions brought by relators, who file complaints in the name of the united states (and if applicable, particular states) under federal and state false claims laws, and under the federal false claims act can be entitled to receive up to 30% of total recoveries. violations of the federal false claims act can result in treble damages, and each false claim submitted can be subject to a penalty of up to $11,000 per claim. the health care reform law significantly strengthened the federal false claims act and federal anti-kickback law provisions, which could lead to the possibility of increased whistleblower or relator suits, and among other things made clear that a federal anti-kickback law violation can be a basis for federal false claims act liability. we also are subject to certain laws and regulations concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and anti-bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records, which have been the focus of increasing enforcement activity in recent years. 23 table of contents failure to comply with health care fraud laws and regulations could result in significant civil and criminal penalties and costs, including the loss of licenses and the ability to participate in federal and state health care programs, and could have a material adverse impact on our business. also, these laws may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations or incur substantial defense and settlement expenses. even unsuccessful challenges by regulatory authorities or private relators could result in reputational harm and the incurring of substantial costs. in addition, many of these laws are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, and have been subject to frequent modification and varied interpretation by prosecutorial, regulatory authorities, increasing compliance risks. while we believe that we are substantially compliant with the foregoing laws and regulations promulgated thereunder, and have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, we cannot predict whether changes in applicable law, or interpretation of laws, or changes in our services or marketing practices in response, could adversely affect our business. if we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to the confidentiality of sensitive personal information or standards in electronic health data transmissions, we could be required to make significant changes to our products, or incur penalties or other liabilities. state, federal and foreign laws, such as hipaa, regulate the confidentiality of sensitive personal information and the circumstances under which such information may be released. these measures may govern the disclosure and use of personal and patient medical record information and may require users of such information to implement specified security measures, and to notify individuals in the event of privacy and security breaches. evolving laws and regulations in this area could restrict the ability of our customers to obtain, use or disseminate patient information, or could require us to incur significant additional costs to re-design our products in a timely manner to reflect these legal requirements, either of which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. other health information standards, such as regulations under hipaa, establish standards regarding electronic health data transmissions and transaction code set rules for specified electronic transactions, for example transactions involving claims submissions to third party payers. these also continue to evolve and are often unclear and difficult to apply. in addition, under the hitech act, which was passed in 2009, some of our businesses that were previously only indirectly subject to federal hipaa privacy and security rules became directly subject to such rules because the businesses serve as business associates to our customers. on january 17, 2013, the office for civil rights of the department of health and human services released a final rule implementing the hitech act and making certain other changes to hipaa privacy and security requirements. compliance with the rule was required by september 23, 2013, and increases the requirements applicable to some of our businesses. failure to maintain the confidentiality of sensitive personal information in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements, or to abide by electronic health data transmission standards, could expose us to breach of contract claims, fines and penalties, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation. our global operations are subject to inherent risks that could adversely affect our operating results. global operations are subject to risks that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the risks that our global operations are subject to include, among other things: difficulties and costs relating to staffing and managing foreign operations; difficulties in establishing channels of distribution; fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies; longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions; repatriation of cash from our foreign operations to the united states; regulatory requirements; anti-bribery, anti-corruption and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records; unexpected difficulties in importing or exporting our products; imposition of import/export duties, quotas, sanctions or penalties; 24 table of contents difficulties and delays inherent in sourcing products and contract manufacturing in foreign markets; limitations on our ability under local laws to protect our intellectual property; unexpected regulatory, legal, economic and political changes in foreign markets; civil disturbances, geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism, war or political or military coups; and public health emergencies. our expansion through acquisitions and joint ventures involves risks. we have expanded our domestic and international markets in part through acquisitions and joint ventures, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions and enter into joint ventures in the future. such transactions involve numerous risks, including possible adverse effects on our operating results or the market price of our common stock. some of our acquisitions and future acquisitions may also give rise to an obligation by us to make contingent payments or to satisfy certain repurchase obligations, which payments could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, integrating acquired businesses and joint ventures: may result in a loss of customers or product lines of the acquired businesses or joint ventures; requires significant management attention; may place significant demands on our operations, information systems and financial resources; and results in additional acquisition and integration expenses. there can be no assurance that our future acquisitions or joint ventures will be successful. our ability to continue to successfully effect acquisitions and joint ventures will depend upon the following: the availability of suitable acquisition or joint venture candidates at acceptable prices; our ability to consummate such transactions, which could potentially be prohibited due to u.s. or foreign antitrust regulations; the availability of financing on acceptable terms, in the case of non-stock transactions; and the liquidity of our investments and our ability to raise capital could be affected by the financial credit markets. our acquisitions may not result in the benefits and revenue growth we expect. we are in the process of integrating companies that we acquired and including the operations, services, products and personnel of each company within our management policies, procedures and strategies. we cannot be sure that we will achieve the benefits of revenue growth that we expect from these acquisitions or that we will not incur unforeseen additional costs or expenses in connection with these acquisitions. to effectively manage our expected future growth, we must continue to successfully manage our integration of these companies and continue to improve our operational systems, internal procedures, working capital management, and financial and operational controls. if we fail in any of these areas, our business could be adversely affected. 25 table of contents we face inherent risk of exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury. our business involves a risk of product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business, and from time to time we are named as a defendant in cases as a result of our distribution of products. additionally, we own interests in companies that manufacture certain dental products. as a result, we are subject to the potential risk of product liability or other claims relating to the manufacture and distribution of products by those entities. one of the potential risks we face in the distribution of our products is liability resulting from counterfeit or tainted products infiltrating the supply chain. in addition, some of the products that we transport and sell are considered hazardous materials. the improper handling of such materials or accidents involving the transportation of such materials could subject us to liability. we have various insurance policies, including product liability insurance, covering risks and in amounts that we consider adequate. in many cases in which we have been sued in connection with products manufactured by others, the manufacturer of the product provides us with indemnification. there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost, or that indemnification agreements will provide us with adequate protection. a successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance or not covered by indemnification agreements, or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us, could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. our technology segment depends upon continued software and e-services product development, technical support and successful marketing. competition among companies supplying practice management software and/or e-services is intense and increasing. our future sales of practice management software and e-services will depend on, among other factors: the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs; our ability to enhance our products and services to satisfy customer requirements; and our ability to provide ongoing technical support. we cannot be sure that we will be successful in introducing and marketing new software, software enhancements or e-services, or that such software, software enhancements and e-services will be released on time or accepted by the market. our software and applicable e-services products, like software products generally, may contain undetected errors or bugs when introduced or as new versions are released. we cannot be sure that future problems with post-release software errors or bugs will not occur. any such defective software may result in increased expenses related to the software and could adversely affect our relationships with the customers using such software. we do not have any patents on our software or e-services, and rely upon copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as contractual and common law protections. we cannot provide assurance that such legal protections will be available or enforceable to protect our software or e-services products. we may experience competition from third-party online commerce sites. traditional health care supply and distribution relationships are being challenged by electronic online commerce solutions. the continued advancement of online commerce by third parties will require us to cost-effectively adapt to changing technologies, to enhance existing services and to differentiate our business (including with additional value-added services) to address changing demands of consumers and our customers on a timely basis. the emergence of such potential competition and our inability to anticipate and effectively respond to changes on a timely basis could have an adverse effect on our business. 26 table of contents cyber-security risks generally associated with our information systems and our technology products and services could adversely affect our results of operations. we rely on information systems (is) in our business to obtain, rapidly process, analyze and manage data to, among other things: maintain and manage worldwide systems to facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution centers; receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis; manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; process payments to suppliers; and maintain certain of our customers' electronic medical records. a cyber-attack that bypasses our is security systems causing an is security breach may lead to a material disruption of our is business systems and/or the loss of business information resulting in adverse business impact. risks may include, among other things: future results could be adversely affected due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property; operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of is systems and subsequent clean-up and mitigation activities; and negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our customers, partners or industry peers. our results of operations could be adversely affected if our is systems are interrupted, damaged by unforeseen events, cyber-attacks or fail for any extended period of time. we develop products and provide services to our customers that are technology-based. a cyber-attack that bypasses the security systems of our products or services causing a security breach and/or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products or services could cause significant reputational harm. actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies. although our customer license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to such liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand all legal challenges. failure to maintain the confidentiality of sensitive customer data in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements, or to abide by electronic health data transmission standards, could also expose us to claims, fines and penalties and costs for remediation. additionally, legislative or regulatory action related to cyber-security may increase our costs to develop or implement new technology products and services. we have various insurance policies, including cyber liability insurance, covering risks and in amounts that we consider adequate. there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost. successful claims for misappropriation or release of confidential or personal data brought against us in excess of available insurance or fines or other penalties assessed or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us, could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. 27 table of contents certain provisions in our governing documents and other documents to which we are a party may discourage third-party offers to acquire us that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price of their shares. the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, may discourage acquisition bids and may limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions, among other things: require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 60% of the shares of common stock entitled to vote to approve a merger, consolidation, or a sale, lease, transfer or exchange of all or substantially all of our assets; and require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our common stock entitled to vote to (i) remove a director; and (ii) to amend or repeal our by-laws, with certain limited exceptions. in addition, our 2013 stock incentive plan and 1996 non-employee director stock incentive plan provide for accelerated vesting of stock options upon a change in control. these incentive plans also authorize the committee under the plans to provide for accelerated vesting of other types of equity awards in connection with a change in control at grant or thereafter, and certain other awards made under these incentive plans (such as restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards) accelerate upon a change in control or upon certain termination events in connection with a change in control. further, certain agreements between us and our executive officers provide for increased severance payments and certain benefits if those executive officers are terminated without cause by us or if they terminate for good reason in each case, within two years after a change in control or within ninety days prior to the effective date of the change in control or after the first public announcement of the pendency of the change in control. tax legislation initiatives could adversely affect our net earnings and tax liabilities. we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the united states federal, state and local governments, as well as foreign jurisdictions. from time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. there can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. in addition, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. although we believe that our historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates as measured against the u.s. dollar and each other, and changes to the credit markets. we attempt to minimize these risks by primarily using foreign currency forward contracts and by maintaining counter-party credit limits. these hedging activities provide only limited protection against currency exchange and credit risks. factors that could influence the effectiveness of our hedging programs include currency markets and availability of hedging instruments and liquidity of the credit markets. all foreign currency forward contracts that we enter into are components of hedging programs and are entered into for the sole purpose of hedging an existing or anticipated currency exposure. we do not enter into such contracts for speculative purposes and we manage our credit risks by diversifying our investments, maintaining a strong balance sheet and having multiple sources of capital. foreign currency agreements the value of certain foreign currencies as compared to the u.s. dollar may affect our financial results. fluctuations in exchange rates may positively or negatively affect our revenues, gross margins, operating expenses and retained earnings, all of which are expressed in u.s. dollars. where we deem it prudent, we engage in hedging programs using primarily foreign currency forward contracts aimed at limiting the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on earnings. we purchase short-term (i.e., 18 months or less) foreign currency forward contracts to protect against currency exchange risks associated with intercompany loans due from our international subsidiaries and the payment of merchandise purchases to foreign suppliers. we do not hedge the translation of foreign currency profits into u.s. dollars, as we regard this as an accounting exposure, not an economic exposure. as of december 28, 2013, the net notional value of our foreign currency exchange agreements, which expire through july 30, 2014, was $9.3 million, which includes a mark-to-market gain of $0.1 million as determined by quoted market prices. a hypothetical 5% change in the value of the u.s. dollar would change the notional value of our foreign currency exchange agreements by an additional $0.1 million. short-term investments we limit our credit risk with respect to our cash equivalents, short-term investments and derivative instruments, by monitoring the credit worthiness of the financial institutions who are the counter-parties to such financial instruments. as a risk management policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure by diversifying and utilizing numerous investment grade counter-parties. 56 table of contentsrisk factors 19 risk factors for a discussion of additional burdens, risks and regulatory developments that may affect our results of operations and financial condition. proprietary rights we hold trademarks relating to the henry schein name and logo, as well as certain other trademarks. we intend to protect our trademarks to the fullest extent practicable. 15 table of contents employees as of december 27, 2014, we employed more than 17,500 full-time employees, including approximately 1,825 telesales representatives, 3,650 field sales consultants, including equipment sales specialists, 3,400 warehouse employees, 550 computer programmers and technicians, 900 management employees and 7,475 office, clerical and administrative employees. over 310, or 1.8%, of our employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements. we believe that our relations with our employees are excellent. available information we make available free of charge through our internet website, www.henryschein.com , our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, statements of beneficial ownership of securities on forms 3, 4 and 5 and amendments to these reports and statements filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) and section 16 of the securities exchange act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the united states securities and exchange commission, or sec. the above information is also available at the sec's office of investor education and advocacy at united states securities and exchange commission, 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549-0213 or obtainable by calling the sec at (800) 732-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet website at www.sec.gov , where the above information can be viewed. our principal executive offices are located at 135 duryea road, melville, new york 11747, and our telephone number is (631) 843-5500. unless the context specifically requires otherwise, the terms the company, henry schein, we, us and our mean henry schein, inc., a delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. 16 table of contents executive officers of the registrant the following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers: name age position stanley m. bergman 65 chairman, chief executive officer, director gerald a. benjamin 62 executive vice president, chief administrative officer, director james p. breslawski 60 president, henry schein and ceo, global dental group, director leonard a. david 66 senior vice president, chief compliance officer michael s. ettinger 53 senior vice president, corporate and legal affairs &amp; secretary james a. harding 59 senior vice president, chief technology officer stanley komaroff 79 senior advisor lorelei mcglynn 51 senior vice president, global human resources and financial operations david c. mckinley 62 president, medical group bob minowitz 56 president, international dental group mark e. mlotek 59 executive vice president, chief strategic officer, director steven paladino 57 executive vice president, chief financial officer, director michael racioppi 60 senior vice president, chief merchandising officer paul rose 57 senior vice president, global supply chain lonnie shoff 56 ceo, global animal health and strategic partnership group walter siegel 55 senior vice president and general counsel stanley m. bergman has been our chairman and chief executive officer since 1989 and a director since 1982. mr. bergman held the position of president from 1989 to 2005. mr. bergman held the position of executive vice president from 1985 to 1989 and vice president of finance and administration from 1980 to 1985. gerald a. benjamin has been our executive vice president and chief administrative officer since 2000 and a director since 1994. prior to holding his current position, mr. benjamin was senior vice president of administration and customer satisfaction since 1993. mr. benjamin was vice president of distribution operations from 1990 to 1992 and director of materials management from 1988 to 1990. before joining us in 1988, mr. benjamin was employed for 12 years in various management positions at est e lauder, inc., where his last position was director of materials planning and control. james p. breslawski has been our president since 2005 and a director since 1992. mr. breslawski is also the chief executive officer of our henry schein global dental group. mr. breslawski held the position of executive vice president and president of u.s. dental from 1990 to 2005, with primary responsibility for the north american dental group. between 1980 and 1990, mr. breslawski held various positions with us, including chief financial officer, vice president of finance and administration and controller. leonard a. david has been our senior vice president and chief compliance officer since 2006. mr. david held the position of vice president and chief compliance officer from 2005 to 2006. mr. david held the position of vice president of human resources and special counsel from 1995 to 2005. mr. david held the position of vice president, general counsel and secretary from 1990 through 1994 and practiced corporate and business law for eight years prior to joining us. michael s. ettinger has been senior vice president, corporate and legal affairs &amp; secretary since 2013. prior to holding his current position, mr. ettinger served as corporate senior vice president, general counsel &amp; secretary from 2006 to 2013, vice president, general counsel and secretary from 2000 to 2006, vice president and associate general counsel from 1998 to 2000 and associate general counsel from 1994 to 1998. before joining us, mr. ettinger served as a senior associate with bower &amp; gardner and as a member of the tax department at arthur andersen. james a. harding has been our chief technology officer since 2005 and senior vice president since 2001. prior to holding his current position, mr. harding was chief information officer since 2001, with primary responsibility for worldwide information technology. 17 table of contents stanley komaroff has been our senior advisor since 2003. prior to joining us, mr. komaroff was a partner for 35 years in the law firm of proskauer rose llp, counsel to us. he served as chairman of that firm from 1991 to 1999. lorelei mcglynn has served as senior vice president, global human resources and financial operations since 2013. since joining us in 1999, ms. mcglynn has served as vice president, global human resources and financial operations from 2008 to 2013, chief financial officer, international group and vice president of global financial operations from 2002 to 2008 and vice president, finance, north america from 1999 to 2002. prior to joining us, ms. mcglynn served as assistant vice president of finance at adecco corporation. david c. mckinley has been president of henry schein's medical group since 2008. before assuming his current position, mr. mckinley was president of henry schein practice solutions from 2006 to 2008 and president of dental prosthetic solutions from 2005 to 2006. prior to joining us, mr. mckinley served as the group executive for olympus medical north america and as general manager for the bard urology and bard germany businesses. mr. mckinley currently serves on the health industry distributors association (hida) education foundation. bob minowitz has been president of henry schein's international dental group since 2012. up until 2012, mr. minowitz held various roles throughout the company, including president, henry schein european dental group from 2009 to 2012, president, henry schein western europe, middle east and pacific regions from 2006 to 2009, managing director, henry schein u.k. holdings from 2003 to 2006, president henry schein western europe from 2004 to 2006 and president henry schein europe from 2001 to 2004. prior to joining us, mr. minowitz was employed by bristol-myers company as a senior internal auditor. mark e. mlotek has been executive vice president and chief strategic officer since 2012. mr. mlotek was senior vice president and subsequently executive vice president of the corporate business development group between 2000 and 2012. prior to that, mr. mlotek was vice president, general counsel and secretary from 1994 to 1999 and became a director in 1995. prior to joining us, mr. mlotek was a partner in the law firm of proskauer rose llp, counsel to us, specializing in mergers and acquisitions, corporate reorganizations and tax law from 1989 to 1994. steven paladino has been our executive vice president and chief financial officer since 2000. prior to holding his current position, mr. paladino was senior vice president and chief financial officer from 1993 to 2000 and has been a director since 1992. from 1990 to 1992, mr. paladino served as vice president and treasurer and from 1987 to 1990 served as corporate controller. before joining us, mr. paladino was employed in public accounting for seven years, most recently with the international accounting firm of bdo usa, llp. mr. paladino is a certified public accountant. michael racioppi has been our senior vice president, chief merchandising officer since 2008. prior to holding his current position, mr. racioppi was president of the medical division from 2000 to 2008 and interim president from 1999 to 2000, and corporate vice president from 1994 to 2008. mr. racioppi served as senior director, corporate merchandising from 1992 to 1994. before joining us in 1992, mr. racioppi was employed by ketchum distributors, inc. as the vice president of purchasing and marketing. paul rose has served as senior vice president, global supply chain since 2013. prior to assuming his current position, mr. rose served as vice president, global supply chain from 2008 to 2013, vice president, global inventory management from 2004 to 2008 and vice president, inventory management, north america from 2001 to 2004. he also served on the hida supply chain advisory council and as nwda pharmaceutical market committee chairman. lonnie shoff has been chief executive officer of the global animal health and strategic partnerships group since 2010. prior to joining us in 2009, ms. shoff was employed with roche diagnostics, where she held a series of positions of increasing responsibility in the united states and switzerland over the past 20 years, most recently as senior vice president and general manager, applied science. walter siegel has been senior vice president and general counsel since 2013. prior to joining us, mr. siegel was employed with standard microsystems corporation, a publicly traded global semiconductor company from 2005 to 2012, holding positions of increasing responsibility, most recently as senior vice president, general counsel and secretary. 18 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition or the trading price of our common stock. although it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties, they may include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider not to be material to our operations. you should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all risks and uncertainties. the order in which these factors appear should not be construed to indicate their relative importance or priority. the health care products distribution industry is highly competitive and we may not be able to compete successfully. we compete with numerous companies, including several major manufacturers and distributors. some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, which could allow them to compete more successfully. most of our products are available from several sources and our customers tend to have relationships with several distributors. competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market particular products, which we would then be unable to market. manufacturers also could increase their efforts to sell directly to end-users and thereby eliminate or reduce our role and that of other distributors. industry consolidation among health care product distributors, price competition, the unavailability of products, whether due to our inability to gain access to products or to interruptions in supply from manufacturers, or the emergence of new competitors also could increase competition. in the future, we may be unable to compete successfully and competitive pressures may reduce our revenues. because substantially all of the products that we distribute are not manufactured by us, we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture and supply of substantially all of our products. we obtain substantially all of our products from third-party suppliers. generally, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to supply products to us. therefore, suppliers may not provide the products we need in the quantities we request. while there is generally more than one source of supply for most of the categories of products we sell, some key suppliers, in the aggregate, supply a significant portion of the products we sell. additionally, because we generally do not control the actual production of the products we sell, we may be subject to delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions outside of our control, including the failure to comply with applicable government requirements. the failure of manufacturers of products regulated by the fda to meet these requirements could result in product recall, cessation of sales or other market disruptions. in the event that any of our third-party suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to continue to provide the products in required volumes, we would need to identify and obtain acceptable replacement sources on a timely basis. there is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain such alternative sources of supply on a timely basis, if at all. an extended interruption in the supply of our products, especially any high sales volume product, would have an adverse effect on our results of operations, which most likely would adversely affect the value of our common stock. our revenues depend on our relationships with capable sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers of the products that we distribute. our future operating results depend on our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers. if we fail to maintain our existing relationships with such persons or fail to acquire relationships with such key persons in the future, our business may be adversely affected. our future success is substantially dependent upon our senior management. our future success is substantially dependent upon the efforts and abilities of members of our existing senior management, particularly stanley m. bergman, chairman and chief executive officer, among others. the loss of the services of mr. bergman could have a material adverse effect on our business. we have an employment agreement with mr. bergman. we do not currently have key man life insurance policies on any of our employees. competition for senior management is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel. 19 table of contents we experience fluctuations in quarterly earnings. as a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. our business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly fluctuations. net sales and operating profits generally have been higher in the third and fourth quarters due to the timing of sales of seasonal products (including influenza vaccine, equipment and software products), purchasing patterns of office-based health care practitioners and year-end promotions. net sales and operating profits generally have been lower in the first quarter, primarily due to increased sales in the prior two quarters. we expect our historical seasonality of sales to continue in the foreseeable future. quarterly results may also be adversely affected by a variety of other factors, including: timing and amount of sales and marketing expenditures; timing of pricing changes offered by our vendors; timing of the introduction of new products and services by our vendors; timing of the release of upgrades and enhancements to our technology-related products and services; changes in or availability of vendor contracts or rebate programs; vendor rebates based upon attaining certain growth goals; changes in the way vendors introduce or deliver products to market; costs of developing new applications and services; our ability to correctly identify customer needs and preferences and predict future needs and preferences; exclusivity requirements with certain vendors may prohibit us from distributing competitive products manufactured by other vendors; loss of sales representatives; costs related to acquisitions and/or integrations of technologies or businesses; costs associated with our self-insured medical and dental insurance programs; general market and economic conditions, as well as those specific to the health care industry and related industries; our success in establishing or maintaining business relationships; unexpected difficulties in developing and manufacturing products; product demand and availability or recalls by manufacturers; exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury; increases in the cost of shipping or service issues with our third-party shippers; fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies; restructuring costs; and changes in accounting principles. any change in one or more of these or other factors could cause our annual or quarterly operating results to fluctuate. if our operating results do not meet market expectations, our stock price may decline. 20 table of contents expansion of group purchasing organizations ( gpo ) or provider networks and the multi-tiered costing structure may place us at a competitive disadvantage. the medical products industry is subject to a multi-tiered costing structure, which can vary by manufacturer and/or product. under this structure, certain institutions can obtain more favorable prices for medical products than we are able to obtain. the multi-tiered costing structure continues to expand as many large integrated health care providers and others with significant purchasing power, such as gpos, demand more favorable pricing terms. additionally, the formation of provider networks and gpos may shift purchasing decisions to entities or persons with whom we do not have a historical relationship. this may threaten our ability to compete effectively, which would in turn negatively impact our results of operations. although we are seeking to obtain similar terms from manufacturers, obtain access to lower prices demanded by gpo contracts or other contracts, and develop relationships with provider networks and new gpos, we cannot assure that such terms will be obtained or contracts will be executed. increases in the cost of shipping or service issues with our third-party shippers could harm our business. shipping is a significant expense in the operation of our business. we ship almost all of our orders through third-party delivery services, and typically bear the cost of shipment. accordingly, any significant increase in shipping rates could have an adverse effect on our operating results. similarly, strikes or other service interruptions by those shippers could cause our operating expenses to rise and adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis. uncertain global macro-economic and political conditions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. uncertain global macro-economic conditions that affect the economy and the economic outlook of the united states, europe and other parts of the world could adversely affect our customers and vendors, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. these uncertainties, including, among other things, sovereign debt levels, the inability of political institutions to effectively resolve actual or perceived economic, currency or budgetary crises or issues, consumer confidence, unemployment levels (and a corresponding increase in the uninsured and underinsured population), interest rates, availability of capital, fuel and energy costs, tax rates, health care costs and the threat or outbreak of terrorism or public unrest, could adversely impact our customers and vendors, which could adversely affect us. government debt and/or budget crises may lead to reductions in government spending in certain countries, which could reduce overall health care spending, and/or higher income or corporate taxes, which could depress spending overall. additionally, recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending may cause customers to reduce, modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may cause vendors to reduce their output or change their terms of sale. we generally sell products to customers with payment terms. if customers' cash flow or operating and financial performance deteriorates, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment to us. likewise, for similar reasons vendors may restrict credit or impose different payment terms. any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for our products and/or services or any demands by vendors for different payment terms may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us. our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. disruptions in the financial markets may adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us. 21 table of contents the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. a variety of factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including: the publication of earnings estimates or other research reports and speculation in the press or investment community; changes in our industry and competitors; our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and prospects; stock repurchases; any future issuances of our common stock, which may include primary offerings for cash, stock splits, issuances in connection with business acquisitions, issuances of restricted stock/units and the grant or exercise of stock options from time to time; general market and economic conditions; and any outbreak or escalation of hostilities in areas where we do business. in addition, the nasdaq stock market can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies listed on nasdaq. broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. this type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which would have an adverse effect on our business. the health care industry is experiencing changes that could adversely affect our business. the health care industry is highly regulated and subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. in recent years, the health care industry has undergone, and is in the process of undergoing, significant changes driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including: trends toward managed care; consolidation of health care distribution companies; consolidation of health care manufacturers; collective purchasing arrangements and consolidation among office-based health care practitioners; and changes in reimbursements to customers, as well as growing enforcement activities (and related monetary recoveries) by governmental officials. both our own profit margins and the profit margins of our customers may be adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services, changing the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined and, in the case of animal health practitioners, changes in the use of feed additives (including, without limitation, antibiotics and growth promotants) used in the production of animal products due to trade restrictions, animal welfare and/or government regulations; and changes in customer buying habits (including customers purchasing animal health pharmaceuticals outside the veterinarians' offices). if we are unable to react effectively to these and other changes in the health care industry, our operating results could be adversely affected. in addition, the enactment of significant health care reforms could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. the implementation of the health care reform law could adversely affect our business. the united states patient protection and affordable care act as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act, each enacted in march 2010, generally known as the health care reform law, significantly expand health insurance coverage to uninsured americans and changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private payers. we expect expansion of access to health insurance to increase the demand for our products and services, but other provisions of the health care reform law could affect us adversely, and the health care reform law may be invalidated, in whole or in part, or it may be repealed. additionally, further federal and state proposals for health care reform in the united states are likely, and foreign government authorities may also adopt reforms of their health systems. we cannot predict what further reform proposals, if any, will be adopted, when they may be adopted, or what impact they may have on us. 22 table of contents the health care reform law contains many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and to reduce costs of medicare and medicaid, including imposing a 2.3% excise tax on domestic sales of many medical devices by manufacturers and importers that began in 2013, and a fee on branded prescription drugs and biologics that was implemented in 2011, both of which may adversely affect sales and cost of goods sold. the implementation of the reporting and disclosure obligations of the physician payment sunshine act provisions of the health care reform law could adversely affect our business. a health care reform law provision, generally referred to as the physician payment sunshine act or open payments program, has imposed new reporting and disclosure requirements for drug and device manufacturers with regard to payments or other transfers of value made to certain practitioners (including physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals), and for such manufacturers and for group purchasing organizations, with regard to certain ownership interests held by physicians in the reporting entity. on february 1, 2013, cms released the final rule to implement the physician payment sunshine act. under this rule, data collection activities began on august 1, 2013, and we timely filed our first disclosure reports on june 30, 2014 for the period august 1, 2013 through december 31, 2013. as required under the physician payment sunshine act, cms published information from these reports on a publicly available website, including amounts transferred and physician, dentist and teaching hospital identities on september 30, 2014. the final rule implementing the physician payment sunshine act is complex, ambiguous and broad in scope. cms commentary on the final rule and more recent cms communications indicate that wholesale drug and device distributors which take title to such products are to be treated as applicable manufacturers subject to full reporting requirements. in addition, certain of our subsidiaries manufacture drugs and devices. accordingly, we are required to collect and report detailed information regarding certain financial relationships we have with physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals. it is difficult to predict how the new requirements may impact existing relationships among manufacturers, distributors, physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals. the physician payment sunshine act preempts similar state reporting laws, although we or our subsidiaries may be required to continue to report under certain of such state laws in addition to physician payment sunshine act reporting, and some of these state laws are also ambiguous. we are also subject to foreign regulations requiring transparency of certain interactions between suppliers and their customers. while we believe we have substantially compliant programs and controls in place to comply with the physician payment sunshine act requirements (and similar foreign requirements), our compliance with the new final rule (and similar foreign requirements) imposes additional costs on us. failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could adversely affect our business. our business is subject to requirements under various local, state, federal and international laws and regulations applicable to the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices, and human cells, tissue and cellular and tissue-based products, also known as hct/p products, and animal feed and supplements. among the federal laws with which we must comply are the controlled substances act, the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, as amended, and section 361 of the public health services act. among other things, such laws, and the regulations promulgated thereunder: regulate the storage and distribution, labeling, packaging, handling, reporting, record keeping, introduction, manufacturing and marketing of drugs, hct/p products and medical devices; subject us to inspection by the fda and the dea; regulate the storage, transportation and disposal of certain of our products that are considered hazardous materials; require us to advertise and promote our drugs and devices in accordance with applicable fda requirements; require registration with the fda and the dea and various state agencies; require record keeping and documentation of transactions involving drug products; require us to design and operate a system to identify and report suspicious orders of controlled substances to the dea; 23 table of contents require us to manage returns of products that have been recalled and subject us to inspection of our recall procedures and activities; and impose reporting requirements if a pharmaceutical, hct/p product or medical device causes serious illness, injury or death. applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations also may require us to meet various standards relating to, among other things, licensure or registration, sales and marketing practices, product integrity and supply tracking to the manufacturer of the product, personnel, privacy and security of health or other personal information, installation, maintenance and repair of equipment, and the importation and exportation of products. our business also is subject to requirements of similar and other foreign governmental laws and regulations affecting our operations abroad. the fda and dea have recently increased their regulatory and enforcement activities. the failure to comply with any of these regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or the imposition of any additional laws and regulations, could negatively affect our business. there can be no assurance that current government regulations will not adversely affect our business. the costs to us associated with complying with the various applicable statutes and regulations, as they now exist and as they may be modified, could be material. allegations by a governmental body that we have not complied with these laws could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. if it is determined that we have not complied with these laws, we are potentially subject to penalties including warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, mandatory recall of product, seizure of product and injunction, and suspension or limitation of product sale and distribution. if we enter into settlement agreements to resolve allegations of non-compliance, we could be required to make settlement payments or be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the loss of licenses. non-compliance with government requirements could adversely affect our ability to participate in federal and state government health care programs, and damage our reputation. if we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to health care fraud or other laws and regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations, which could adversely affect our business. we are subject to federal and state (and similar foreign) laws and regulations relating to health care fraud. some of these laws, referred to as false claims laws, prohibit the submission or causing the submission of false or fraudulent claims for reimbursement to federal, state and other health care payers and programs. other laws, referred to as anti-kickback laws, prohibit soliciting, offering, receiving or paying remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient or ordering, purchasing, leasing or arranging for or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing, of items or services that are paid for by federal, state and other health care payers and programs. health care fraud measures may implicate, for example, our relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers, our pricing and incentive programs for physician and dental practices, and our dental and physician practice management products that offer billing-related functionality. the government has expressed concerns about financial relationships between suppliers on the one hand and physicians and dentists on the other. as a result, we regularly review and revise our marketing practices as necessary to facilitate compliance. in addition, under the reporting and disclosure obligations of the physician payment sunshine act provisions of the health care reform law, discussed in more detail under government regulations - health care reform above, the general public and government officials are being provided with new access to detailed information with regard to payments or other transfers of value to certain practitioners (including physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals) by applicable drug and device manufacturers subject to such reporting and disclosure obligations, which includes us. this information may lead to greater scrutiny, which may result in modifications to established practices and additional costs. the applicable requirements have been subject to varying interpretations, as well as heightened enforcement activity, over the past few years. also, significant enforcement activity has been the result of actions brought by relators, who file complaints in the name of the united states (and if applicable, particular states) under federal and state false claims laws, and under the federal false claims act can be entitled to receive up to 30% of total recoveries. violations of the federal false claims act can result in treble damages, and each false claim submitted can be subject to a penalty of up to $11,000 per claim. the health care reform law significantly strengthened the federal false claims act and federal anti-kickback law provisions, which could lead to the possibility of increased whistleblower or relator suits, and among other things made clear that a federal anti-kickback law violation can be a basis for federal false claims act liability. 24 table of contents we also are subject to certain united states and foreign laws and regulations concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act 2010 and other anti-bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records, which have been the focus of increasing enforcement activity globally in recent years. failure to comply with health care fraud laws and regulations could result in significant civil and criminal penalties and costs, including the loss of licenses and the ability to participate in federal and state health care programs, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. also, these laws may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations or incur substantial defense and settlement expenses. even unsuccessful challenges by regulatory authorities or private relators could result in reputational harm and the incurring of substantial costs. in addition, many of these laws are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, and have been subject to frequent modification and varied interpretation by prosecutorial and regulatory authorities, increasing compliance risks. our businesses are generally subject to numerous other laws and regulations that could impact our financial performance, including, without limitation, securities, antitrust and marketing laws and regulations. failure to comply with laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. while we believe that we are substantially compliant with the foregoing laws and regulations promulgated thereunder, and have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, we cannot predict whether changes in applicable law, or interpretation of laws, or changes in our services or marketing practices in response to changes in applicable law or interpretation of laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to the confidentiality of sensitive personal information or standards in electronic health data transmissions, we could be required to make significant changes to our products, or incur penalties or other liabilities. state, federal and foreign laws, such as hipaa, regulate the confidentiality of sensitive personal information and the circumstances under which such information may be released. these measures may govern the disclosure and use of personal and patient medical record information and may require users of such information to implement specified security measures, and to notify individuals in the event of privacy and security breaches. evolving laws and regulations in this area could restrict the ability of our customers to obtain, use or disseminate patient information, or could require us to incur significant additional costs to re-design our products in a timely manner to reflect these legal requirements, either of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. other health information standards, such as regulations under hipaa, establish standards regarding electronic health data transmissions and transaction code set rules for specified electronic transactions, for example transactions involving claims submissions to third party payers. these also continue to evolve and are often unclear and difficult to apply. in addition, under the hitech act, which was passed in 2009, some of our businesses that were previously only indirectly subject to federal hipaa privacy and security rules became directly subject to such rules because the businesses serve as business associates to our customers. on january 17, 2013, the office for civil rights of the department of health and human services released a final rule implementing the hitech act and making certain other changes to hipaa privacy and security requirements. compliance with the rule was required by september 23, 2013, and increased the requirements applicable to some of our businesses. failure to maintain the confidentiality of sensitive personal information in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements, or to abide by electronic health data transmission standards, could expose us to breach of contract claims, fines and penalties, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation. in addition, federal initiatives are providing a program of incentive payments available to certain health care providers involving the adoption and use of certain electronic health care records systems and processes. the initiative includes providing, among others, physicians and dentists, with financial incentives if they meaningfully use ehr in accordance with applicable requirements. in addition, medicare-eligible providers that fail to timely adopt certified ehr systems and meet meaningful use requirements for those systems in accordance with regulatory requirements are to be subject to cumulative medicare reimbursement reductions, which reductions for eligible health professionals (including physicians and dentists) began on january 1, 2015. qualification for the incentive payments requires the use of ehrs that have certain capabilities for meaningful use pursuant to standards adopted by the department of health and human services. initial ( stage 1 ) standards addressed criteria for periods beginning in 2011. cms has also issued a final rule with more demanding stage 2 criteria for periods beginning in 2014 for eligible health professionals (including physicians and dentists). 25 table of contents recognizing difficulties encountered by some providers in acquiring and implementing 2014 edition-certified ehr technology, cms published a final rule on september 4, 2014 that adds flexibility to the manner in which physicians, dentists and others may demonstrate meaningful use of ehr by extending through the 2014 reporting period the ability, in certain circumstances, to use 2011 edition-certified technology to attest to meaningful use, rather than requiring the use of 2014 edition-certified technology. the rule also delays for one year implementation of more rigorous stage 3 measures, and under this rule eligible health professionals (including physicians and dentists) would begin stage 3 in calendar year 2017, as to which regulations are to be proposed in spring 2015. in addition, also in recognition of difficulties encountered by some providers in acquiring and implementing 2014 edition-certified ehr technology, cms has specifically recognized that a hardship exemption may be granted, among other reasons, where the provider's failure to demonstrate meaningful use was caused by its ehr vendor's failure to timely obtain 2014 certification for its ehr technology, and extended the deadline for health care professionals to file hardship exemption applications from july 1, 2014 to november 30, 2014. on january 29, 2015, cms announced an intent to engage in further rulemaking under the ehr incentive program to redress the stage 2 reporting burden on providers. among other things, the new rule, expected in the spring of 2015, will tie ehr reporting to a calendar year, modify other aspects of the program, and shorten the ehr reporting period in 2015 to 90 days. certain of our businesses involve the manufacture and sale of certified ehr systems and other products linked to incentive programs, and the failure to maintain compliance with these evolving governmental criteria could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, the frequently changing requirements may increase our costs in these businesses. our global operations are subject to inherent risks that could adversely affect our operating results. global operations are subject to risks that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the risks that our global operations are subject to include, among other things: difficulties and costs relating to staffing and managing foreign operations; difficulties in establishing channels of distribution; fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies; longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions; repatriation of cash from our foreign operations to the united states; regulatory requirements; anti-bribery, anti-corruption and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records; unexpected difficulties in importing or exporting our products; imposition of import/export duties, quotas, sanctions or penalties; difficulties and delays inherent in sourcing products and contract manufacturing in foreign markets; limitations on our ability under local laws to protect our intellectual property; unexpected regulatory, legal, economic and political changes in foreign markets; changes in tax regulations that influence purchases of capital equipment; civil disturbances, geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism, war or political or military coups; and public health emergencies. 26 table of contents our expansion through acquisitions and joint ventures involves risks. we have expanded our domestic and international markets in part through acquisitions and joint ventures, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions and enter into joint ventures in the future. such transactions involve numerous risks, including possible adverse effects on our operating results or the market price of our common stock. some of our acquisitions and future acquisitions may also give rise to an obligation by us to make contingent payments or to satisfy certain repurchase obligations, which payments could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, integrating acquired businesses and joint ventures: may result in a loss of customers or product lines of the acquired businesses or joint ventures; requires significant management attention; may place significant demands on our operations, information systems and financial resources; and results in additional acquisition and integration expenses. there can be no assurance that our future acquisitions or joint ventures will be successful. our ability to continue to successfully effect acquisitions and joint ventures will depend upon the following: the availability of suitable acquisition or joint venture candidates at acceptable prices; our ability to consummate such transactions, which could potentially be prohibited due to u.s. or foreign antitrust regulations; the availability of financing on acceptable terms, in the case of non-stock transactions; and the liquidity of our investments and our ability to raise capital could be affected by the financial credit markets. our acquisitions may not result in the benefits and revenue growth we expect. we are in the process of integrating companies that we acquired and including the operations, services, products and personnel of each company within our management policies, procedures and strategies. we cannot be sure that we will achieve the benefits of revenue growth that we expect from these acquisitions or that we will not incur unforeseen additional costs or expenses in connection with these acquisitions. to effectively manage our expected future growth, we must continue to successfully manage our integration of these companies and continue to improve our operational systems, internal procedures, working capital management, and financial and operational controls. if we fail in any of these areas, our business could be adversely affected. we face inherent risk of exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury. our business involves a risk of product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business, and from time to time we are named as a defendant in cases as a result of our distribution of products. additionally, we own interests in companies that manufacture certain dental products. as a result, we are subject to the potential risk of product liability or other claims relating to the manufacture and distribution of products by those entities. additionally, as our private-label business continues to grow, purchasers of such products may increasingly seek recourse directly from us, rather than the ultimate product manufacturer, for product-related claims. another potential risk we face in the distribution of our products is liability resulting from counterfeit or tainted products infiltrating the supply chain. in addition, some of the products that we transport and sell are considered hazardous materials. the improper handling of such materials or accidents involving the transportation of such materials could subject us to liability. we have various insurance policies, including product liability insurance, covering risks and in amounts that we consider adequate. in many cases in which we have been sued in connection with products manufactured by others, the manufacturer of the product provides us with indemnification. there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost, or that indemnification agreements will provide us with adequate protection. a successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance or not covered by indemnification agreements, or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us, could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. 27 table of contents our technology segment depends upon continued software and e-services product development, technical support and successful marketing. competition among companies supplying practice management software and/or e-services is intense and increasing. our future sales of practice management software and e-services will depend on, among other factors: the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs; our ability to enhance our products and services to satisfy customer requirements; and our ability to provide ongoing technical support. we cannot be sure that we will be successful in introducing and marketing new software, software enhancements or e-services, or that such software, software enhancements and e-services will be released on time or accepted by the market. our software and applicable e-services products, like software products generally, may contain undetected errors or bugs when introduced or as new versions are released. we cannot be sure that future problems with post-release software errors or bugs will not occur. any such defective software may result in increased expenses related to the software and could adversely affect our relationships with the customers using such software as well as our reputation. we do not have any patents on our software or e-services, and rely upon copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as contractual and common law protections. we cannot provide assurance that such legal protections will be available or enforceable to protect our software or e-services products. we may experience competition from third-party online commerce sites. traditional health care supply and distribution relationships are being challenged by electronic online commerce solutions. the continued advancement of online commerce by third parties will require us to cost-effectively adapt to changing technologies, to enhance existing services and to differentiate our business (including with additional value-added services) to address changing demands of consumers and our customers on a timely basis. the emergence of such potential competition and our inability to anticipate and effectively respond to changes on a timely basis could have an adverse effect on our business. cyber-security risks generally associated with our information systems and our technology products and services could adversely affect our business. we rely on information systems (is) in our business to obtain, rapidly process, analyze, manage and store data to, among other things: maintain and manage worldwide systems to facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution centers; receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis; manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; process payments to suppliers; and maintain certain of our customers' electronic medical records (including protected health information of their patients). information security risks have generally increased in recent years, and a cyber-attack that bypasses our is security systems causing an is security breach may lead to a material disruption of our is business systems and/or the loss of business information resulting in an adverse effect on our business. our is systems also utilize certain third party service organizations that manage a portion of our information systems, and our business may be adversely affected if these third party service organizations are subject to an is security breach. risks may include, among other things: future results could be adversely affected due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property; operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of is systems and subsequent clean-up and mitigation activities; 28 table of contents procedures and safeguards must continually evolve to meet new is challenges, and enhancing protections, and conducting investigations and remediation, may impose additional costs on us; and negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our customers, partners or industry peers. our results of operations could be adversely affected if our is systems (or third-party systems we rely on) are interrupted, damaged by unforeseen events, cyber-attacks or fail for any extended period of time. we develop products and provide services to our customers that are technology-based. a cyber-attack that bypasses the security systems of our products or services causing a security breach and/or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products or services could cause significant reputational harm. actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies. although our customer license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to such liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand all legal challenges. failure to maintain the confidentiality of sensitive customer data in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements, or to abide by electronic health data transmission standards, could also expose us to claims, fines and penalties and costs for remediation. additionally, legislative or regulatory action related to cyber-security may increase our costs to develop or implement new technology products and services. we also deliver internet-based services and, accordingly, depend on our ability and the ability of our customers to access the internet. in the event of any difficulties, outages and delays by internet service providers, we may be impeded from providing such services, which may have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. we have various insurance policies, including cyber liability insurance, covering risks and in amounts that we consider adequate. there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost. successful claims for misappropriation or release of confidential or personal data brought against us in excess of available insurance or fines or other penalties assessed or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us, could have an adverse effect on our business and our reputation. certain provisions in our governing documents and other documents to which we are a party may discourage third-party offers to acquire us that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price of their shares. the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, may discourage acquisition bids and may limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions, among other things: require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 60% of the shares of common stock entitled to vote to approve a merger, consolidation, or a sale, lease, transfer or exchange of all or substantially all of our assets; and require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our common stock entitled to vote to (i) remove a director; and (ii) to amend or repeal our by-laws, with certain limited exceptions. in addition, our 2013 stock incentive plan and 1996 non-employee director stock incentive plan provide for accelerated vesting of stock options upon a change in control. these incentive plans also authorize the committee under the plans to provide for accelerated vesting of other types of equity awards in connection with a change in control at grant or thereafter, and certain other awards made under these incentive plans (such as restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards) accelerate upon a change in control or upon certain termination events in connection with a change in control. further, certain agreements between us and our executive officers provide for increased severance payments and certain benefits if those executive officers are terminated without cause by us or if they terminate for good reason in each case, within two years after a change in control or within ninety days prior to the effective date of the change in control or after the first public announcement of the pendency of the change in control. 29 table of contents tax legislation initiatives could adversely affect our net earnings and tax liabilities. we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the united states federal, state and local governments, as well as foreign jurisdictions. from time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions. there can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not be adversely affected by these initiatives. in addition, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. although we believe that our historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates as measured against the u.s. dollar and each other, and changes to the credit markets. we attempt to minimize these risks by primarily using foreign currency forward contracts and by maintaining counter-party credit limits. these hedging activities provide only limited protection against currency exchange and credit risks. factors that could influence the effectiveness of our hedging programs include currency markets and availability of hedging instruments and liquidity of the credit markets. all foreign currency forward contracts that we enter into are components of hedging programs and are entered into for the sole purpose of hedging an existing or anticipated currency exposure. we do not enter into such contracts for speculative purposes and we manage our credit risks by diversifying our investments, maintaining a strong balance sheet and having multiple sources of capital. foreign currency agreements the value of certain foreign currencies as compared to the u.s. dollar may affect our financial results. fluctuations in exchange rates may positively or negatively affect our revenues, gross margins, operating expenses and retained earnings, all of which are expressed in u.s. dollars. where we deem it prudent, we engage in hedging programs using primarily foreign currency forward contracts aimed at limiting the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on earnings. we purchase short-term (i.e., 18 months or less) foreign currency forward contracts to protect against currency exchange risks associated with intercompany loans due from our international subsidiaries and the payment of merchandise purchases to foreign suppliers. we do not hedge the translation of foreign currency profits into u.s. dollars, as we regard this as an accounting exposure, not an economic exposure. as of december 27, 2014, we have foreign currency exchange agreements, which expire through july 29, 2015, which include a mark-to-market gain of $1.2 million as determined by quoted market prices. a hypothetical 5% change in the value of the u.s. dollar would change the notional value of our foreign currency exchange agreements by a reduction $0.1 million. short-term investments we limit our credit risk with respect to our cash equivalents, short-term investments and derivative instruments, by monitoring the credit worthiness of the financial institutions who are the counter-parties to such financial instruments. as a risk management policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure by diversifying and utilizing numerous investment grade counter-parties. 59 table of contentsrisk factors 18 risk factors for a discussion of additional burdens, risks and regulatory developments that may affect our results of operations and financial condition. proprietary rights we hold trademarks relating to the henry schein name and logo, as well as certain other trademarks. we intend to protect our trademarks to the fullest extent practicable. employees as of december 26, 2015, we employed nearly 19,000 full-time employees, including approximately 1,850 telesales representatives, 3,725 field sales consultants, including equipment sales specialists, 3,900 warehouse employees, 600 computer programmers and technicians, 950 management employees and 7,900 office, clerical and administrative employees. approximately 301, or 1.6%, of our employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements. we believe that our relations with our employees are excellent. available information we make available free of charge through our internet website, www.henryschein.com , our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, statements of beneficial ownership of securities on forms 3, 4 and 5 and amendments to these reports and statements filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) and section 16 of the securities exchange act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the united states securities and exchange commission, or sec. the above information is also available at the sec's office of investor education and advocacy at united states securities and exchange commission, 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549-0213 or obtainable by calling the sec at (800) 732-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet website at www.sec.gov , where the above information can be viewed. our principal executive offices are located at 135 duryea road, melville, new york 11747, and our telephone number is (631) 843-5500. unless the context specifically requires otherwise, the terms the company, henry schein, we, us and our mean henry schein, inc., a delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. 15 table of contents executive officers of the registrant the following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers: name age position stanley m. bergman 66 chairman, chief executive officer, director gerald a. benjamin 63 executive vice president, chief administrative officer, director james p. breslawski 61 president, henry schein and ceo, global dental group, director michael s. ettinger 54 senior vice president, corporate &amp; legal affairs and chief of staff, secretary james a. harding 60 senior vice president, chief technology officer stanley komaroff 80 senior advisor peter mccarthy 56 president, global animal health group lorelei mcglynn 52 senior vice president, global human resources and financial operations david c. mckinley 63 president, medical group bob minowitz 57 president, international dental group mark e. mlotek 60 executive vice president, chief strategic officer, director steven paladino 58 executive vice president, chief financial officer, director michael racioppi 61 senior vice president, chief merchandising officer paul rose 58 senior vice president, global supply chain lonnie shoff 57 ceo, global strategic portfolio group walter siegel 56 senior vice president and general counsel stanley m. bergman has been our chairman and chief executive officer since 1989 and a director since 1982. mr. bergman held the position of president from 1989 to 2005. mr. bergman held the position of executive vice president from 1985 to 1989 and vice president of finance and administration from 1980 to 1985. gerald a. benjamin has been our executive vice president and chief administrative officer since 2000 and a director since 1994. prior to holding his current position, mr. benjamin was senior vice president of administration and customer satisfaction since 1993. mr. benjamin was vice president of distribution operations from 1990 to 1992 and director of materials management from 1988 to 1990. before joining us in 1988, mr. benjamin was employed for 12 years at est e lauder, inc., in various management positions where his last position was director of materials planning and control. james p. breslawski has been our president since 2005 and a director since 1992. mr. breslawski is also the chief executive officer of our henry schein global dental group. mr. breslawski held the position of executive vice president and president of u.s. dental from 1990 to 2005, with primary responsibility for the north american dental group. between 1980 and 1990, mr. breslawski held various positions with us, including chief financial officer, vice president of finance and administration and corporate controller. michael s. ettinger has been senior vice president, corporate &amp; legal affairs, chief of staff and secretary since 2015. prior to his current position, mr. ettinger served as senior vice president, corporate &amp; legal affairs and secretary from 2013 to 2015, corporate senior vice president, general counsel &amp; secretary from 2006 to 2013, vice president, general counsel and secretary from 2000 to 2006, vice president and associate general counsel from 1998 to 2000 and associate general counsel from 1994 to 1998. before joining us, mr. ettinger served as a senior associate with bower &amp; gardner and as a member of the tax department at arthur andersen. james a. harding has been our corporate chief technology officer since 2005 and senior vice president since 2001. prior to holding his current position, mr. harding was chief information officer since 2001, with primary responsibility for worldwide information technology. stanley komaroff has been our senior advisor since 2003. prior to joining us, mr. komaroff was a partner for 35 years in the law firm of proskauer rose llp, counsel to us. he served as chairman of that firm from 1991 to 1999. 16 table of contents peter mccarthy has been president, global animal health group since 2015. prior to holding his current position, mr. mccarthy was president, henry schein international animal health from 2012 to 2015 and president, henry schein animal health, europe from 2010 to 2012. prior to joining us, mr. mccarthy was employed with schering-plough animal health (now merck animal health), serving as senior director, global operations and general manager, china. mr. mccarthy also worked at wyeth/american cyanamid for 14 years, helping to grow the human pharmaceutical business. lorelei mcglynn has served as senior vice president, global human resources and financial operations since 2013. since joining us in 1999, ms. mcglynn has served as vice president, global human resources and financial operations from 2008 to 2013, chief financial officer, international group and vice president of global financial operations from 2002 to 2008 and vice president, finance, north america from 1999 to 2002. prior to joining us, ms. mcglynn served as assistant vice president of finance at adecco corporation. david c. mckinley has been president of henry schein's medical group since 2008. before assuming his current position, mr. mckinley was president of henry schein practice solutions from 2006 to 2008 and president of dental prosthetic solutions from 2005 to 2006. prior to joining us, mr. mckinley served as the group executive for olympus medical north america and as general manager for the bard urology and bard germany businesses. mr. mckinley currently serves on the health industry distributors association (hida) education foundation. bob minowitz has been president of henry schein's international dental group since 2012. before assuming his current position, mr. minowitz held a number of key roles with increasing responsibility throughout the company, including president, henry schein european dental group from 2009 to 2012, president, henry schein western europe, middle east and pacific regions from 2006 to 2009, managing director, henry schein u.k. holdings from 2004 to 2006, president henry schein western europe from 2004 to 2006 and president henry schein europe from 2001 to 2004. prior to joining us, mr. minowitz was employed by bristol-myers company as a senior internal auditor. mark e. mlotek has been executive vice president and chief strategic officer since 2012. mr. mlotek was senior vice president and subsequently executive vice president of the corporate business development group between 2000 and 2012. prior to that, mr. mlotek was vice president, general counsel and secretary from 1994 to 1999 and became a director in 1995. prior to joining us, mr. mlotek was a partner in the law firm of proskauer rose llp, counsel to us, specializing in mergers and acquisitions, corporate reorganizations and tax law from 1989 to 1994. steven paladino has been our executive vice president and chief financial officer since 2000. prior to holding his current position, mr. paladino was senior vice president and chief financial officer from 1993 to 2000 and has been a director since 1992. from 1990 to 1992, mr. paladino served as vice president and treasurer and from 1987 to 1990 served as corporate controller. before joining us, mr. paladino was employed in public accounting for seven years, most recently with the international accounting firm of bdo usa, llp. mr. paladino is a certified public accountant. michael racioppi has been our senior vice president, chief merchandising officer since 2008. prior to holding his current position, mr. racioppi was president of the medical division from 2000 to 2008 and interim president from 1999 to 2000, and corporate vice president from 1994 to 2008, with primary responsibility for the medical group, marketing and merchandising departments. mr. racioppi served as senior director, corporate merchandising from 1992 to 1994. before joining us in 1992, mr. racioppi was employed by ketchum distributors, inc. as the vice president of purchasing and marketing. he currently serves on the board of national distribution and contracting and previously served on the board of health distribution management association and health industry distributors association (hida). paul rose has served as senior vice president, global supply chain since 2013. prior to holding his current position, mr. rose held a number of key roles with increasing responsibility throughout the company, including serving as vice president, global supply chain from 2008 to 2013, vice president, global inventory management from 2004 to 2008 and vice president, inventory management, north america from 2001 to 2004. he also served on the hida supply chain advisory council and as the national wholesale druggists' associations pharmaceutical market committee chairman. 17 table of contents lonnie shoff has been chief executive officer of the global strategic portfolio group since 2015. prior to holding her current position, ms. shoff was chief executive officer of the global animal health and strategic partnerships group from 2012 to 2015 and president, global healthcare specialties group from 2009 to 2012. prior to joining us, ms. shoff was employed with roche diagnostics, where she held a series of positions of increasing responsibility in the united states and switzerland over the past 20 years, most recently as senior vice president and general manager, applied science. walter siegel has been senior vice president and general counsel since 2013. prior to joining us, mr. siegel was employed with standard microsystems corporation, a publicly traded global semiconductor company from 2005 to 2012, holding positions of increasing responsibility, most recently as senior vice president, general counsel and secretary. item 1a. risk factors the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition and/or the trading price of our common stock. although it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties, they may include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider not to be material to our operations. you should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all risks and uncertainties. the order in which these factors appear should not be construed to indicate their relative importance or priority. the health care products distribution industry is highly competitive and consolidating and we may not be able to compete successfully. we compete with numerous companies, including several major manufacturers and distributors. some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, which could allow them to compete more successfully. most of our products are available from several sources and our customers tend to have relationships with several distributors. competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market particular products, which we would then be unable to market. manufacturers also could increase their efforts to sell directly to end-users and thereby eliminate or reduce our role and that of other distributors. industry consolidation among health care product distributors, price competition, the unavailability of products, whether due to our inability to gain access to products or to interruptions in supply from manufacturers, or the emergence of new competitors also could increase competition. there has also been increasing consolidation among manufacturers of health care products which could have a material adverse effect on our margins and product availability. additionally, in this competitive market, some of our contracts contain minimum purchase commitments. we could be subject to charges and financial losses in the event we fail to satisfy minimum purchase commitments. in the future, we may be unable to compete successfully and competitive pressures may reduce our revenues and profitability . because substantially all of the products that we distribute are not manufactured by us, we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture and supply of substantially all of our products. we obtain substantially all of our products from third parties. generally, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to supply products to us. therefore, suppliers may not provide the products we need in the quantities we request. while there is generally more than one source of supply for most of the categories of products we sell, some key suppliers, in the aggregate, supply a significant portion of the products we sell. additionally, because we generally do not control the actual production of the products we sell, we may be subject to delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions outside of our control, including the failure to comply with applicable government requirements. the failure of manufacturers of products regulated by the fda or other governmental agencies to meet these requirements could result in product recall, cessation of sales or other market disruptions. in the event that any of our third-party suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to continue to provide the products in required volumes, we would need to identify and obtain acceptable replacement sources on a timely basis. there is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain such alternative sources of supply on a timely basis, if at all. an extended interruption in the supply of our products, especially any high sales volume product, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, which most likely would adversely affect the value of our common stock. 18 table of contents our revenues and profitability depend on our relationships with capable sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers of the products that we distribute. our future revenues and profitability depend on our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers. if we fail to maintain our existing relationships with such persons or fail to acquire relationships with such key persons in the future, our business may be materially adversely affected. our future success is substantially dependent upon our senior management. our future success is substantially dependent upon the efforts and abilities of members of our existing senior management, particularly stanley m. bergman, chairman and chief executive officer, among others. the loss of the services of mr. bergman could have a material adverse effect on our business. we have an employment agreement with mr. bergman. we do not currently have key man life insurance policies on any of our employees. competition for senior management is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel. we experience fluctuations in quarterly earnings. as a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. our business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly fluctuations. revenues and profitability generally have been higher in the third and fourth quarters due to the timing of sales of seasonal products (including influenza vaccine, equipment and software products), purchasing patterns of office-based health care practitioners and year-end promotions. revenues and profitability generally have been lower in the first quarter, primarily due to increased sales in the prior two quarters. we expect our historical seasonality of sales to continue in the foreseeable future. quarterly results may also be materially adversely affected by a variety of other factors, including: timing and amount of sales and marketing expenditures; timing of pricing changes offered by our suppliers; timing of the introduction of new products and services by our suppliers; timing of the release of upgrades and enhancements to our technology-related products and services; changes in or availability of supplier contracts or rebate programs; supplier rebates based upon attaining certain growth goals; changes in the way suppliers introduce or deliver products to market; costs of developing new applications and services; our ability to correctly identify customer needs and preferences and predict future needs and preferences; uncertainties regarding potential significant breaches of data security or disruptions of our information technology systems; unexpected regulatory actions, or government regulation generally; exclusivity requirements with certain suppliers may prohibit us from distributing competitive products manufactured by other suppliers; loss of sales representatives; costs related to acquisitions and/or integrations of technologies or businesses; 19 table of contents costs associated with our self-insured medical and dental insurance programs; general market and economic conditions, as well as those specific to the health care industry and related industries; our success in establishing or maintaining business relationships; unexpected difficulties in developing and manufacturing products; product demand and availability or recalls by manufacturers; exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury; increases in shipping costs or service issues with our third-party shippers; fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies; restructuring costs; the adoption or repeal of legislation; and changes in accounting principles. any change in one or more of these or other factors could cause our annual or quarterly financial results to fluctuate. if our financial results do not meet market expectations, our stock price may decline. expansion of group purchasing organizations ( gpo ) or provider networks and the multi-tiered costing structure may place us at a competitive disadvantage. the medical products industry is subject to a multi-tiered costing structure, which can vary by manufacturer and/or product. under this structure, certain institutions can obtain more favorable prices for medical products than we are able to obtain. the multi-tiered costing structure continues to expand as many large integrated health care providers and others with significant purchasing power, such as gpos, demand more favorable pricing terms. additionally, the formation of provider networks and gpos may shift purchasing decisions to entities or persons with whom we do not have a historical relationship. this may threaten our ability to compete effectively, which would in turn negatively impact our financial results. although we are seeking to obtain similar terms from manufacturers, obtain access to lower prices demanded by gpo contracts or other contracts, and develop relationships with provider networks and new gpos, we cannot assure that such terms will be obtained or contracts will be executed. increases in shipping costs or service issues with our third-party shippers could harm our business. shipping is a significant expense in the operation of our business. we ship almost all of our orders through third-party delivery services, and typically bear the cost of shipment. accordingly, any significant increase in shipping rates could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. similarly, strikes or other service interruptions by those shippers could cause our operating expenses to rise and materially adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis. 20 table of contents uncertain global macro-economic and political conditions could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. uncertain global macro-economic and political conditions that affect the economy and the economic outlook of the united states, europe and other parts of the world could adversely affect our customers and suppliers, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. these uncertainties, including, among other things, sovereign debt levels, the inability of political institutions to effectively resolve actual or perceived economic, currency or budgetary crises or issues, consumer confidence, election results, unemployment levels (and a corresponding increase in the uninsured and underinsured population), interest rates, availability of capital, fuel and energy costs, tax rates, health care costs and the threat or outbreak of terrorism or public unrest, could adversely impact our customers and suppliers, which could materially adversely affect us. changes in government, government debt and/or budget crises may lead to reductions in government spending in certain countries, which could reduce overall health care spending, and/or higher income or corporate taxes, which could depress spending overall. additionally, recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending may cause customers to reduce, modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may cause suppliers to reduce their output or change their terms of sale. we generally sell products to customers with payment terms. if customers' cash flow or operating and financial performance deteriorates, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment to us. likewise, for similar reasons suppliers may restrict credit or impose different payment terms. any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for our products and/or services or any demands by suppliers for different payment terms may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. disruptions in the financial markets may materially adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us. our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. disruptions in the financial markets may materially adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. a variety of factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including: the publication of earnings estimates or other research reports and speculation in the press or investment community; changes in our industry and competitors; changes in government or legislation; our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and prospects; stock repurchases; any future issuances of our common stock, which may include primary offerings for cash, stock splits, issuances in connection with business acquisitions, issuances of restricted stock/units and the grant or exercise of stock options from time to time; general market and economic conditions; and any outbreak or escalation of hostilities in areas where we do business. in addition, the nasdaq stock market can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies listed on nasdaq. broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. this type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 21 table of contents the health care industry is experiencing changes that could materially adversely affect our business. the health care industry is highly regulated and subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. in recent years, the health care industry has undergone, and is in the process of undergoing, significant changes driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including: trends toward managed care; consolidation of health care distribution companies; consolidation of health care manufacturers; collective purchasing arrangements and consolidation among office-based health care practitioners; and changes in reimbursements to customers, as well as growing enforcement activities (and related monetary recoveries) by governmental officials. both our profitability and the profitability of our customers may be materially adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services, changing the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined and, in the case of animal health practitioners, changes in the use of feed additives (including, without limitation , antibiotics and growth promotants) used in the production of animal products due to trade restrictions, animal welfare and/or government regulations; and changes in customer buying habits (including customers purchasing animal health pharmaceuticals outside the veterinarians' offices). if we are unable to react effectively to these and other changes in the health care industry, our financial results could be materially adversely affected. the implementation of the health care reform law could materially adversely affect our business. the united states patient protection and affordable care act as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act, each enacted in march 2010, generally known as the health care reform law, significantly expand health insurance coverage to uninsured americans and changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private payers. we expect expansion of access to health insurance to increase the demand for our products and services, but other provisions of the health care reform law could have a material adverse effect on our business, and the health care reform law may be invalidated, in whole or in part, or it may be repealed. additionally, further federal and state proposals for health care reform in the united states are likely, and foreign government authorities may also adopt reforms of their health systems. we cannot predict what further reform proposals, if any, will be adopted, when they may be adopted, or what impact they may have on us. the health care reform law contains many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and to reduce costs of medicare and medicaid, including imposing a 2.3% excise tax on domestic sales of many medical devices by manufacturers and importers that began in 2013, and a fee on branded prescription drugs and biologics that was implemented in 2011, both of which may adversely affect sales and cost of goods sold. as part of h.r. 2029 consolidated appropriations act, 2016 a moratorium was imposed on the medical device excise tax for the period beginning january 1, 2016 and ending on december 31, 2017. as such, the medical device excise tax does not apply to sales during that period. the implementation of the reporting and disclosure obligations of the physician payment sunshine act provisions of the health care reform law could adversely affect our business. a health care reform law provision, generally referred to as the physician payment sunshine act or open payments program, imposes reporting and disclosure requirements for drug and device manufacturers with regard to payments or other transfers of value made to certain practitioners (including physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals), and for such manufacturers and for group purchasing organizations, with regard to certain ownership interests held by physicians in the reporting entity. on february 1, 2013, cms released the final rule to implement the physician payment sunshine act. under this rule, data collection activities (which began on august 1, 2013) as required under the physician payment sunshine act, cms publishes information from these reports on a publicly available website, including amounts transferred and physician, dentist and teaching hospital identities. under the physician payment sunshine act we are required to collect and report detailed information regarding certain financial relationships we have with physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals, and we believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable physician payment sunshine act requirements. the physician payment sunshine act pre-empts similar state reporting laws, although we or our subsidiaries may also be required to report under certain state transparency laws that address circumstances not covered by the physician payment sunshine act, and some of these state laws, as well as the federal law, can be ambiguous. we are also subject to foreign regulations requiring transparency of certain interactions between suppliers and their customers. while we believe we have substantially compliant programs and controls in place to comply with these reporting requirements, our compliance with these new rules imposes additional costs on us. 22 table of contents failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could materially adversely affect our business. our business is subject to requirements under various local, state, federal and international laws and regulations applicable to the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices, and human cells, tissue and cellular and tissue-based products, also known as hct/p products, and animal feed and supplements. among the federal laws with which we must comply are the controlled substances act, the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, as amended, and section 361 of the public health services act. among other things, such laws, and the regulations promulgated thereunder: regulate the storage and distribution, labeling, packaging, handling, reporting, record keeping, introduction, manufacturing and marketing of drugs, hct/p products and medical devices; subject us to inspection by the fda and the dea; regulate the storage, transportation and disposal of certain of our products that are considered hazardous materials; require us to advertise and promote our drugs and devices in accordance with applicable fda requirements; require registration with the fda and the dea and various state agencies; require record keeping and documentation of transactions involving drug products; require us to design and operate a system to identify and report suspicious orders of controlled substances to the dea; require us to manage returns of products that have been recalled and subject us to inspection of our recall procedures and activities; and impose reporting requirements if a pharmaceutical, hct/p product or medical device causes serious illness, injury or death. applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations also may require us to meet various standards relating to, among other things, licensure or registration, sales and marketing practices, product integrity and supply tracking to the manufacturer of the product, personnel, privacy and security of health or other personal information, installation, maintenance and repair of equipment, and the importation and exportation of products. our business also is subject to requirements of similar and other foreign governmental laws and regulations affecting our operations abroad. the fda and dea have recently increased their regulatory and enforcement activities. the failure to comply with any of these regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or the imposition of any additional laws and regulations, could materially adversely affect our business. there can be no assurance that current government regulations will not adversely affect our business. the costs to us associated with complying with the various applicable statutes and regulations, as they now exist and as they may be modified, could be material. allegations by a governmental body that we have not complied with these laws could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. if it is determined that we have not complied with these laws, we are potentially subject to penalties including warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, mandatory recall of product, seizure of product and injunction, consent decrees, and suspension or limitation of product sale and distribution. if we enter into settlement agreements to resolve allegations of non-compliance, we could be required to make settlement payments or be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the loss of licenses. non-compliance with government requirements could adversely affect our ability to participate in federal and state government health care programs, and damage our reputation. 23 table of contents if we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to health care fraud or other laws and regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations, which could materially adversely affect our business. certain of our businesses are subject to federal and state (and similar foreign) health care fraud and abuse, referral and reimbursement laws and regulations with respect to their operations. some of these laws, referred to as false claims laws, prohibit the submission or causing the submission of false or fraudulent claims for reimbursement to federal, state and other health care payers and programs. other laws, referred to as anti-kickback laws, prohibit soliciting, offering, receiving or paying remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient or ordering, purchasing, leasing or arranging for or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing, of items or services that are paid for by federal, state and other health care payers and programs. health care fraud measures may implicate, for example, our relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers, our pricing and incentive programs for physician and dental practices, and our dental and physician practice management products that offer billing-related functionality. the fraud and abuse regulations have been subject to varying interpretations, as well as heightened enforcement activity, over the past few years, and significant enforcement activity has been the result of relators, who serve as whistleblowers by filing complaints in the name of the united states (and if applicable, particular states) under federal and state false claims laws. under the federal false claims act relators can be entitled to receive up to 30% of total recoveries. also, violations of the federal false claims act can result in treble damages, and each false claim submitted can be subject to a penalty of up to $11,000 per claim. most states have adopted similar state false claims laws, and these state laws have their own penalties which may be in addition to federal false claims act penalties. the health care reform law significantly strengthened the federal false claims act and the federal anti-kickback law provisions, which could lead to the possibility of increased whistleblower or relator suits, and among other things made clear that a federal anti-kickback law violation can be a basis for federal false claims act liability. the united states government (among others) has expressed concerns about financial relationships between suppliers on the one hand and physicians and dentists on the other. as a result, we regularly review and revise our marketing practices as necessary to facilitate compliance. we also are subject to certain united states and foreign laws and regulations concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and other anti-bribery laws, anti-corruption laws, and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records, which have been the focus of increasing enforcement activity globally in recent years. our businesses are generally subject to numerous other laws and regulations that could impact our financial results, including, without limitation, securities, antitrust and marketing laws and regulations. failure to comply with laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. failure to comply with fraud and abuse laws and regulations and other laws and regulations could result in significant civil and criminal penalties and costs, including the loss of licenses and the ability to participate in federal and state health care programs, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. also, these measures may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations or incur substantial defense and settlement expenses. even unsuccessful challenges by regulatory authorities or private relators could result in reputational harm and the incurring of substantial costs. in addition, many of these laws are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, and have been subject to frequent modification and varied interpretation by prosecutorial and regulatory authorities, increasing the risk of non-compliance. we may determine to enter into settlements, make payments, agree to consent decrees or enter into other arrangements to resolve such matters. for example, one of our subsidiaries recently resolved an investigation by the federal trade commission ( ftc ) related to the manner in which it advertised certain data security features of its dental practice management software, which resulted in a consent order and fine. failure to comply with consent decrees could materially adversely affect our business. 24 table of contents while we believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable fraud and abuse and other laws and regulations, and believe we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, we cannot predict whether changes in applicable law, or interpretation of laws, or changes in our services or marketing practices in response to changes in applicable law or interpretation of laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to the confidentiality of sensitive personal information or standards in electronic health data transmissions, we could be required to make significant changes to our products, or incur substantial fines, penalties or other liabilities. our businesses that involve physician and dental practice management products include electronic information technology systems that store and process personal health, clinical, financial and other sensitive information of individuals. these information technology systems may be vulnerable to breakdown, wrongful intrusions, data breaches and malicious attack, which could require us to expend significant resources to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns, and could involve claims against us by private parties and/or governmental agencies. for example, we are directly or indirectly subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that protect the privacy and security of such information, such as hipaa. hipaa requires, among other things, the implementation of various recordkeeping, operational, notice and other practices intended to safeguard that information, limit its use to allowed purposes and notify individuals in the event of privacy and security breaches. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to breach of contract claims, substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation. also, evolving laws and regulations in this area could restrict the ability of our customers to obtain, use or disseminate patient information, or could require us to incur significant additional costs to re-design our products in a timely manner to reflect these legal requirements, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. other health information standards, such as regulations under hipaa, establish standards regarding electronic health data transmissions and transaction code set rules for specified electronic transactions, for example transactions involving claims submissions to third party payers. commencing july 1, 2012, cms required that electronic claim submissions and related electronic transactions be conducted under a new hipaa transaction standard called version 5010. cms has required this upgrade in connection with another new requirement applicable to the industry, the implementation of new diagnostic code sets to be used in claims submission, called the icd-10-cm. the icd-10-cm standard was implemented on october 1, 2015, and claims with dates of service of october 1, 2015 or after must be submitted using icd-10-cm code sets. certain of our businesses provide electronic practice management products that must meet these requirements, and while we believe that our products have timely adopted the new standards, it is possible that the transition to these new standards, particularly the transition to icd-10-cm, may result in a degree of disruption and confusion, thus potentially increasing the costs associated with supporting these products. failure to maintain the confidentiality of sensitive personal information in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements, or to abide by electronic health data transmission standards, could expose us to breach of contract claims, substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation. in addition, federal initiatives provide a program of incentive payments available to certain health care providers involving the adoption and use of certain electronic health care records systems and processes. the initiatives include providing, among others, physicians and dentists, with financial incentives if they meaningfully use certified ehr systems in accordance with applicable requirements. in addition, medicare-eligible providers that fail to timely adopt certified ehr systems and meet meaningful use requirements for those systems in accordance with regulatory requirements are to be subject to cumulative medicare reimbursement reductions, which reductions for applicable health professionals (including physicians and dentists) began on january 1, 2015. qualification for the incentive payments requires the use of ehrs that have certain capabilities for meaningful use pursuant to evolving standards adopted by cms and onc. generally, initial ( stage 1 ) standards addressed criteria for periods beginning in 2011, and more demanding stage 2 standards addressed criteria for periods beginning in 2014. on october 6, 2015, cms and onc released comprehensive final rules with respect to the ehr program that, among other things, establish the more challenging stage 3 criteria, making certain adjustments to stage 1 and stage 2 standards (e.g., reducing the 2015 reporting period from a full year to 90 days), and finalize 2015 edition health technology (hit) certification criteria (which is now added to the existing 2014 edition hit certification criteria, but not required until 2018). notably, under the new rules, compliance with 25 table of contents stage 3 standards will be optional for providers in 2017, and would generally be required for all eligible providers (regardless of prior participation in the ehr incentive program) for 2018 reporting periods and subsequently. developers and others involved in the manufacture of ehr program technology will have this interim period to develop and certify products, and work with customers to implement products for the 2018 ehr program period. in connection with the release of the october 6 rules, hhs has also stated it will continue to modify applicable ehr program standards. in addition, under the medicare access and chip reauthorization act of 2015 (macra), which establishes the merit-based incentive payment system (mips), over the next few years the ehr program is expected to become part of a more comprehensive federal quality measurement and incentive program, apparently with modified applicable requirements, and cms has indicated that it may even supplant certain stage 3 rules with more streamlined mips approaches. certain of our businesses involve the manufacture and sale of certified ehr systems and other products linked to incentive programs, and therefore we must maintain compliance with, and are affected by, these changing governmental criteria. our global operations are subject to inherent risks that could materially adversely affect our business. global operations are subject to risks that may materially adversely affect our business. the risks that our global operations are subject to include, among other things: difficulties and costs relating to staffing and managing foreign operations; difficulties in establishing channels of distribution; fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies; longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions; repatriation of cash from our foreign operations to the united states; regulatory requirements; anti-bribery, anti-corruption and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records; unexpected difficulties in importing or exporting our products; imposition of import/export duties, quotas, sanctions or penalties; difficulties and delays inherent in sourcing products and contract manufacturing in foreign markets; limitations on our ability under local laws to protect our intellectual property; unexpected regulatory, legal, economic and political changes in foreign markets; changes in tax regulations that influence purchases of capital equipment; civil disturbances, geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism, war or political or military coups; and public health emergencies. our expansion through acquisitions and joint ventures involves risks. we have expanded our domestic and international markets in part through acquisitions and joint ventures, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions and enter into joint ventures in the future. such transactions involve numerous risks, including possible material adverse effects on our financial results or the market price of our common stock. some of our acquisitions and future acquisitions may also give rise to an obligation by us to make contingent payments or to satisfy certain repurchase obligations, which payments could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. in addition, integrating acquired businesses and joint ventures: may result in a loss of customers or product lines of the acquired businesses or joint ventures; requires significant management attention; 26 table of contents may place significant demands on our operations, information systems and financial resources; and results in additional acquisition and integration expenses. there can be no assurance that our future acquisitions or joint ventures will be successful. our ability to continue to successfully effect acquisitions and joint ventures will depend upon the following: the availability of suitable acquisition or joint venture candidates at acceptable prices; our ability to consummate such transactions, which could potentially be prohibited due to u.s. or foreign antitrust regulations; the availability of financing on acceptable terms, in the case of non-stock transactions; the liquidity of our investments and our ability to raise capital could be affected by the financial credit markets; and our ability to retain, recruit, and incentivize the management of the companies we acquire. our acquisitions may not result in the benefits and revenue growth we expect. we are in the process of integrating companies that we acquired and including the operations, services, products and personnel of each company within our management policies, procedures and strategies. we cannot be sure that we will achieve the benefits of revenue growth that we expect from these acquisitions or that we will not incur unforeseen additional costs or expenses in connection with these acquisitions. to effectively manage our expected future growth, we must continue to successfully manage our integration of these companies and continue to improve our operational systems, internal procedures, working capital management, and financial and operational controls. if we fail in any of these areas, our business could be materially adversely affected. we face inherent risk of exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury. our business involves a risk of product liability and other claims in the ordinary course of business, and from time to time we are named as a defendant in cases as a result of our distribution of products. additionally, we own interests in companies that manufacture certain dental products. as a result, we are subject to the potential risk of product liability or other claims relating to the manufacture and distribution of products by those entities. additionally, as our private-label business continues to grow, purchasers of such products may increasingly seek recourse directly from us, rather than the ultimate product manufacturer, for product-related claims. another potential risk we face in the distribution of our products is liability resulting from counterfeit or tainted products infiltrating the supply chain. in addition, some of the products that we transport and sell are considered hazardous materials. the improper handling of such materials or accidents involving the transportation of such materials could subject us to liability. we have various insurance policies, including product liability insurance, covering risks and in amounts that we consider adequate. in many cases in which we have been sued in connection with products manufactured by others, the manufacturer of the product provides us with indemnification. there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost, or that indemnification agreements will provide us with adequate protection. a successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance or not covered by indemnification agreements, or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us, could have a material adverse effect on our business and our reputation. our technology segment depends upon continued software and e-services product development, technical support and successful marketing. competition among companies supplying practice management software and/or e-services is intense and increasing. our future sales of practice management software and e-services will depend on, among other factors: the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs; our ability to enhance our products and services to satisfy customer requirements; and 27 table of contents our ability to provide ongoing technical support. we cannot be sure that we will be successful in introducing and marketing new software, software enhancements or e-services, or that such software, software enhancements and e-services will be released on time or accepted by the market. our software and applicable e-services products, like software products generally, may contain undetected errors or bugs when introduced or as new versions are released. we cannot be sure that future problems with post-release software errors or bugs will not occur. any such defective software may result in increased expenses related to the software and could adversely affect our relationships with the customers using such software as well as our reputation. we do not have any patents on our software or e-services, and rely upon copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as contractual and common law protections. we cannot provide assurance that such legal protections will be available or enforceable to protect our software or e-services products. we may experience competition from third-party online commerce sites. traditional health care supply and distribution relationships are being challenged by electronic online commerce solutions. the continued advancement of online commerce by third parties will require us to cost-effectively adapt to changing technologies, to enhance existing services and to differentiate our business (including with additional value-added services) to address changing demands of consumers and our customers on a timely basis. the emergence of such potential competition and our inability to anticipate and effectively respond to changes on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business. security risks generally associated with our information systems and our technology products and services could materially adversely affect our business, and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if our information systems (or third-party systems we rely on) are interrupted, damaged by unforeseen events, cyberattacks or fail for any extended period of time. we rely on information systems (is) in our business to obtain, rapidly process, analyze, manage and store data to, among other things: maintain and manage worldwide systems to facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution centers; receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis; manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; process payments to suppliers; and provide products and services that maintain certain of our customers' electronic medical or dental records (including protected health information of their patients). information security risks have generally increased in recent years, and a cyberattack that bypasses our is security systems causing an is security breach may lead to a material disruption of our is business systems and/or the loss of business information resulting in a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we develop products and provide services to our customers that are technology-based, and a cyberattack that bypasses the is security systems of our products or services causing a security breach and/or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products or services could also cause significant reputational harm, and actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies. in particular, certain of our practice management products and services purchased by health care providers, such as physicians and dentists, are used to store and manage patient medical or dental records. these customers are subject to laws and regulations, such as hipaa, which require that they protect the privacy and security of those records, and our products may be used as part of these customers' comprehensive data security programs, including in connection with their efforts to comply with applicable privacy and security laws. perceived or actual security vulnerabilities in our products or services, or the perceived or actual failure by us or our customers who use our products to comply with applicable legal requirements, may not only cause us significant reputational harm, but may also lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies and involve fines and penalties, costs for remediation, and substantial defense and settlement expenses. 28 table of contents regarding direct customer claims, although our customer license agreements typically contain provisions that seek to eliminate or limit our exposure to such liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenges, or that we will be able to obtain such provisions in all cases. in addition, our information systems also utilize certain third party service organizations that manage a portion of our information systems, and our business may be materially adversely affected if these third party service organizations are subject to an is security breach. additionally, legislative or regulatory action related to cybersecurity may increase our costs to develop or implement new technology products and services. risks associated with these and other is security breaches may include, among other things: future results could be materially adversely affected due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property; operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of information systems and subsequent clean-up and mitigation activities; procedures and safeguards must continually evolve to meet new is challenges, and enhancing protections, and conducting investigations and remediation, may impose additional costs on us; we may incur claims, fines and penalties, and costs for remediation, or substantial defense and settlement expenses; and negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our customers, partners or industry peers. we also deliver internet-based services and, accordingly, depend on our ability and the ability of our customers to access the internet. in the event of any difficulties, outages and delays by internet service providers, we may be impeded from providing such services, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and our reputation. we have various insurance policies, including cyber liability insurance, covering risks and in amounts that we consider adequate. there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost. successful claims for misappropriation or release of confidential or personal data brought against us in excess of available insurance or fines or other penalties assessed or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us, could have a material adverse effect on our business and our reputation. certain provisions in our governing documents and other documents to which we are a party may discourage third-party offers to acquire us that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price of their shares. the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, may discourage acquisition bids and may limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions, among other things: require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 60% of the shares of common stock entitled to vote to approve a merger, consolidation, or a sale, lease, transfer or exchange of all or substantially all of our assets; and require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our common stock entitled to vote to (i) remove a director; and (ii) to amend or repeal our by-laws, with certain limited exceptions. in addition, our 2013 stock incentive plan and 2015 non-employee director stock incentive plan provide for accelerated vesting of stock options upon a change in control. these incentive plans also authorize the committee under the plans to provide for accelerated vesting of other types of equity awards in connection with a change in control at grant or thereafter, and certain other awards made under these incentive plans (such as restricted stock/unit awards) accelerate upon a change in control or upon certain termination events in connection with a change in control. further, certain agreements between us and our executive officers provide for increased severance payments and certain benefits if those executive officers are terminated without cause by us or if they terminate for good reason in each case, within two years after a change in control or within ninety days prior to the effective date of the change in control or after the first public announcement of the pendency of the change in control. 29 table of contents tax legislation could materially adversely affect our financial results and tax liabilities. we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the united states federal, state and local governments, as well as foreign jurisdictions. from time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could materially adversely affect our tax positions. there can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not be materially adversely affected by legislation resulting from these initiatives. in addition, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. although we believe that our historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates as measured against the u.s. dollar and each other, and changes to the credit markets. we attempt to minimize these risks by primarily using foreign currency forward contracts and by maintaining counter-party credit limits. these hedging activities provide only limited protection against currency exchange and credit risks. factors that could influence the effectiveness of our hedging programs include currency markets and availability of hedging instruments and liquidity of the credit markets. all foreign currency forward contracts that we enter into are components of hedging programs and are entered into for the sole purpose of hedging an existing or anticipated currency exposure. we do not enter into such contracts for speculative purposes and we manage our credit risks by diversifying our investments, maintaining a strong balance sheet and having multiple sources of capital. foreign currency agreements the value of certain foreign currencies as compared to the u.s. dollar and the value of certain underlying functional currencies of the company, including its foreign subsidiaries, may affect our financial results. fluctuations in exchange rates may positively or negatively affect our revenues, gross margins, operating expenses and retained earnings, all of which are expressed in u.s. dollars. where we deem it prudent, we engage in hedging programs using primarily foreign currency forward contracts aimed at limiting the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on earnings. we purchase short-term (i.e., 18 months or less) foreign currency forward contracts to protect against currency exchange risks associated with intercompany loans due from our international subsidiaries and the payment of merchandise purchases to foreign suppliers. we do not hedge the translation of foreign currency profits into u.s. dollars, as we regard this as an accounting exposure, not an economic exposure. a hypothetical 5% change in the average value of the u.s. dollar in 2015 compared to foreign currencies would have changed our 2015 reported net income attributable to henry schein, inc. by approximately $5.9 million. as of december 26, 2015, we had foreign currency exchange agreements, which expire through january 17, 2017, which include a mark-to-market gain of $1.8 million as determined by quoted market prices. a hypothetical 5% change in the value of the u.s. dollar would change the notional value of our foreign currency exchange agreements by $3.7 million. short-term investments we limit our credit risk with respect to our cash equivalents, short-term investments and derivative instruments, by monitoring the credit worthiness of the financial institutions who are the counter-parties to such financial instruments. as a risk management policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure by diversifying and utilizing numerous investment grade counter-parties. variable interest rate debt as of december 26, 2015, we had variable interest rate exposure for certain of our revolving credit facilities and our u.s. trade accounts receivable securitization. our revolving credit facility which we entered into on september 22, 2014 and expires on september 22, 2019, has an interest rate that is based on the u.s. dollar libor plus a spread based on our leverage ratio at the end of each financial reporting quarter. as of december 26, 2015, there was $40.0 million outstanding under this revolving credit facility. during the year ended december 26, 2015, the average outstanding balance under this revolving credit facility was approximately $116 million. based upon our average outstanding balance for this revolving credit facility, for each hypothetical increase of 25 basis points, our interest expense thereunder would increase by $0.3 million. our u.s trade accounts receivable securitization, which we entered into on april 17, 2013 and which expires on april 15, 2018, has an interest rate that is based upon the asset-backed commercial paper rate of 40 basis points plus 75 basis points. as of december 26, 2015, we had an outstanding balance of $90.0 million under this securitization facility. during the year ended december 26, 2015, the average outstanding balance under this securitization facility was approximately $280 million. based upon our average outstanding balance for this securitization facility, for each hypothetical increase of 25 basis points, our interest expense thereunder would increase by $0.7 million. 62 table of contentsrisk factors ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 20 risk factors for a discussion of additional burdens, risks and regulatory developments that may affect our results of operations and financial condition. proprietary rights we hold trademarks relating to the henry schein name and logo, as well as certain other trademarks. we intend to protect our trademarks to the fullest extent practicable. employees as of december 31, 2016, we employed more than 21,000 full-time employees, including approximately 2,200 telesales representatives, 3,800 field sales consultants, including equipment sales specialists, 4,550 warehouse employees, 650 computer programmers and technicians, 1,025 management employees and 8,800 office, clerical and administrative employees. approximately 1,747, or 8%, of our employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements. we believe that our relations with our employees are excellent. 15 available information we make available free of charge through our internet website, www.henryschein.com , our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, statements of beneficial ownership of securities on forms 3, 4 and 5 and amendments to these reports and statements filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) and section 16 of the securities exchange act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the united states securities and exchange commission, or sec. the above information is also available at the sec's office of investor education and advocacy at united states securities and exchange commission, 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549-0213 or obtainable by calling the sec at (800) 732-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet website at www.sec.gov , where the above information can be viewed. our principal executive offices are located at 135 duryea road, melville, new york 11747, and our telephone number is (631) 843-5500. unless the context specifically requires otherwise, the terms the company, henry schein, we, us and our mean henry schein, inc., a delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. 16 executive officers of the registrant the following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers: name age position stanley m. bergman .......................................................................................................................................................... 67 chairman, chief executive officer, director gerald a. benjamin .......................................................................................................................................................... 64 executive vice president, chief administrative officer, director james p. breslawski .......................................................................................................................................................... 63 president, henry schein and ceo, global dental group, director michael s. ettinger ........................................................................................................................................................... 55 senior vice president, corporate &amp; legal affairs and chief of staff, secretary james a. harding ............................................................................................................................................................. 61 senior vice president, chief technology officer peter mccarthy ................................................................................................................................................................. 57 president, global animal health group lorelei mcglynn ............................................................................................................................................................... 53 senior vice president, global human resources and financial operations david c. mckinley ........................................................................................................................................................... 64 chief commercial officer and president, corporate commercial development group bob minowitz ................................................................................................................................................................... 58 president, international dental group, emea region mark e. mlotek ................................................................................................................................................................ 61 executive vice president, chief strategic officer, director steven paladino ................................................................................................................................................................ 59 executive vice president, chief financial officer, director karen prange ..................................................................................................................................................................... 53 executive vice president and chief executive officer, global animal health, medical and dental surgical group michael racioppi .............................................................................................................................................................. 62 senior vice president, chief merchandising officer paul rose ......................................................................................................................................................................... 59 senior vice president, global supply chain bridget a. ross ................................................................................................................................................................ 52 president, global medical group walter siegel .................................................................................................................................................................... 57 senior vice president and general counsel stanley m. bergman has been our chairman and chief executive officer since 1989 and a director since 1982. mr. bergman held the position of president from 1989 to 2005. mr. bergman held the position of executive vice president from 1985 to 1989 and vice president of finance and administration from 1980 to 1985. gerald a. benjamin has been our executive vice president and chief administrative officer since 2000 and a director since 1994. prior to holding his current position, mr. benjamin was senior vice president of administration and customer satisfaction since 1993. mr. benjamin was vice president of distribution operations from 1990 to 1992 and director of materials management from 1988 to 1990. before joining us in 1988, mr. benjamin was employed for 12 years at est e lauder, inc., in various management positions where his last position was director of materials planning and control. james p. breslawski has been our president since 2005 and a director since 1992. mr. breslawski is also the chief executive officer of our henry schein global dental group. mr. breslawski held the position of executive vice president and president of u.s. dental from 1990 to 2005, with primary responsibility for the north american dental group. between 1980 and 1990, mr. breslawski held various positions with us, including chief financial officer, vice president of finance and administration and corporate controller. michael s. ettinger has been senior vice president, corporate &amp; legal affairs, chief of staff and secretary since 2015. prior to his current position, mr. ettinger served as senior vice president, corporate &amp; legal affairs and secretary from 2013 to 2015, corporate senior vice president, general counsel &amp; secretary from 2006 to 2013, vice president, general counsel and secretary from 2000 to 2006, vice president and associate general counsel from 1998 to 2000 and associate general counsel from 1994 to 1998. before joining us, mr. ettinger served as a senior associate with bower &amp; gardner and as a member of the tax department at arthur andersen. james a. harding has been our corporate chief technology officer since 2005 and senior vice president since 2001. prior to holding his current position, mr. harding was chief information officer since 2001, with primary responsibility for worldwide information technology. 17 peter mccarthy has been president, global animal health group since 2015. prior to holding his current position, mr. mccarthy was president, henry schein international animal health from 2012 to 2015 and president, henry schein animal health, europe from 2010 to 2012. prior to joining us, mr. mccarthy was employed with schering-plough animal health (now merck animal health), serving as senior director, global operations and general manager, china. mr. mccarthy also worked at wyeth/american cyanamid for 14 years, helping to grow the human pharmaceutical business. lorelei mcglynn has served as senior vice president, global human resources and financial operations since 2013. since joining us in 1999, ms. mcglynn has served as vice president, global human resources and financial operations from 2008 to 2013, chief financial officer, international group and vice president of global financial operations from 2002 to 2008 and vice president, finance, north america from 1999 to 2002. prior to joining us, ms. mcglynn served as assistant vice president of finance at adecco corporation. david c. mckinley has been chief commercial officer and president, corporate commercial development group since 2016. before assuming his current position, mr. mckinley was president of henry schein's medical group since 2008. mr. mckinley was president of henry schein practice solutions from 2006 to 2008 and president of dental prosthetic solutions from 2005 to 2006. prior to joining us, mr. mckinley served as the group executive for olympus medical north america and as general manager for the bard urology and bard germany businesses. mr. mckinley currently serves on the health industry distributors association (hida) education foundation. bob minowitz has been president of henry schein's international dental group since 2012 with the addition of responsibility for the emea region beginning in 2016. before assuming his current position, mr. minowitz held a number of key roles with increasing responsibility throughout the company, including president, henry schein european dental group from 2009 to 2012, president, henry schein western europe, middle east and pacific regions from 2006 to 2009, managing director, henry schein u.k. holdings from 2004 to 2006, president henry schein western europe from 2004 to 2006 and president henry schein europe from 2001 to 2004. prior to joining us, mr. minowitz was employed by bristol-myers company as a senior internal auditor. mark e. mlotek has been executive vice president and chief strategic officer since 2012. mr. mlotek was senior vice president and subsequently executive vice president of the corporate business development group between 2000 and 2012. prior to that, mr. mlotek was vice president, general counsel and secretary from 1994 to 1999 and became a director in 1995. prior to joining us, mr. mlotek was a partner in the law firm of proskauer rose llp, counsel to us, specializing in mergers and acquisitions, corporate reorganizations and tax law from 1989 to 1994. steven paladino has been our executive vice president and chief financial officer since 2000. prior to holding his current position, mr. paladino was senior vice president and chief financial officer from 1993 to 2000 and has been a director since 1992. from 1990 to 1992, mr. paladino served as vice president and treasurer and from 1987 to 1990 served as corporate controller. before joining us, mr. paladino was employed in public accounting for seven years, most recently with the international accounting firm of bdo usa, llp. mr. paladino is a certified public accountant. karen prange has been executive vice president and chief executive officer, global animal health, medical and dental surgical group since 2016. before joining us, ms. prange was senior vice president and president, urology and pelvic health at boston scientific corporation since 2012 and held various positions of increasing responsibility at johnson &amp; johnson, most recently as general manager of the micrus endovascular and codman neurovascular businesses. ms. prange is a member of the committee of 200 (c200), a membership organization of the world's most successful women entrepreneurs and corporate innovators. 18 michael racioppi has been our senior vice president, chief merchandising officer since 2008. prior to holding his current position, mr. racioppi was president of the medical division from 2000 to 2008 and interim president from 1999 to 2000, and corporate vice president from 1994 to 2008, with primary responsibility for the medical group, marketing and merchandising departments. mr. racioppi served as senior director, corporate merchandising from 1992 to 1994. before joining us in 1992, mr. racioppi was employed by ketchum distributors, inc. as the vice president of purchasing and marketing. he currently serves on the board of national distribution and contracting and previously served on the board of health distribution management association and health industry distributors association (hida). paul rose has served as senior vice president, global supply chain since 2013. prior to holding his current position, mr. rose held a number of key roles with increasing responsibility throughout the company, including serving as vice president, global supply chain from 2008 to 2013, vice president, global inventory management from 2004 to 2008 and vice president, inventory management, north america from 2001 to 2004. he also served on the hida supply chain advisory council and as the national wholesale druggists' associations pharmaceutical market committee chairman. bridget a. ross has been our president, global medical group since february 2017. before joining us, ms. ross was vice president of commercial operations, north america for johnson &amp; johnson's medical devices group. during her 28-year career at johnson &amp; johnson, ms. ross held roles including global president of acclarent, inc. and global president for ethicon's women's health &amp; urology, both johnson &amp; johnson medical device companies. walter siegel has been senior vice president and general counsel since 2013. prior to joining us, mr. siegel was employed with standard microsystems corporation, a publicly traded global semiconductor company from 2005 to 2012, holding positions of increasing responsibility, most recently as senior vice president, general counsel and secretary. 19 item 1a. risk factors the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition and/or the trading price of our common stock. although it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties, they may include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider not to be material to our operations. you should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all risks and uncertainties. the order in which these factors appear should not be construed to indicate their relative importance or priority. the health care products distribution industry is highly competitive and consolidating and we may not be able to compete successfully. we compete with numerous companies, including several major manufacturers and distributors. some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, which could allow them to compete more successfully. most of our products are available from several sources and our customers tend to have relationships with several distributors. competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market particular products, which we would then be unable to market. manufacturers also could increase their efforts to sell directly to end-users and thereby eliminate or reduce our role and that of other distributors. industry consolidation among health care product distributors, price competition, the unavailability of products, whether due to our inability to gain access to products or to interruptions in supply from manufacturers, or the emergence of new competitors also could increase competition. there has also been increasing consolidation among manufacturers of health care products which could have a material adverse effect on our margins and product availability. additionally, in this competitive market, some of our contracts contain minimum purchase commitments. we could be subject to charges and financial losses in the event we fail to satisfy minimum purchase commitments. in the future, we may be unable to compete successfully and competitive pressures may reduce our revenues and profitability. because substantially all of the products that we distribute are not manufactured by us, we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture and supply of substantially all of our products. we obtain substantially all of our products from third parties. generally, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to supply products to us. therefore, suppliers may not provide the products we need in the quantities we request. while there is generally more than one source of supply for most of the categories of products we sell, some key suppliers, in the aggregate, supply a significant portion of the products we sell. additionally, because we generally do not control the actual production of the products we sell, we may be subject to delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions outside of our control, including the failure to comply with applicable government requirements. the failure of manufacturers of products regulated by the fda or other governmental agencies to meet these requirements could result in product recall, cessation of sales or other market disruptions. in the event that any of our third-party suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to continue to provide the products in required volumes, we would need to identify and obtain acceptable replacement sources on a timely basis. there is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain such alternative sources of supply on a timely basis, if at all. an extended interruption in the supply of our products, especially any high sales volume product, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, which most likely would adversely affect the value of our common stock. our revenues and profitability depend on our relationships with capable sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers of the products that we distribute. our future revenues and profitability depend on our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers. if we fail to maintain our existing relationships with such persons or fail to acquire relationships with such key persons in the future, our business may be materially adversely affected. 20 our future success is substantially dependent upon our senior management. our future success is substantially dependent upon the efforts and abilities of members of our existing senior management, particularly stanley m. bergman, chairman and chief executive officer, among others. the loss of the services of mr. bergman could have a material adverse effect on our business. we have an employment agreement with mr. bergman. we do not currently have key man life insurance policies on any of our employees. competition for senior management is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel. we experience fluctuations in quarterly earnings. as a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. our business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly fluctuations. revenues and profitability generally have been higher in the third and fourth quarters due to the timing of sales of seasonal products (including influenza vaccine, equipment and software products), purchasing patterns of office-based health care practitioners and year-end promotions. revenues and profitability generally have been lower in the first quarter, primarily due to increased sales in the prior two quarters. we expect our historical seasonality of sales to continue in the foreseeable future. quarterly results may also be materially adversely affected by a variety of other factors, including: timing and amount of sales and marketing expenditures; timing of pricing changes offered by our suppliers; timing of the introduction of new products and services by our suppliers; timing of the release of upgrades and enhancements to our technology-related products and services; changes in or availability of supplier contracts or rebate programs; supplier rebates based upon attaining certain growth goals; changes in the way suppliers introduce or deliver products to market; costs of developing new applications and services; our ability to correctly identify customer needs and preferences and predict future needs and preferences; uncertainties regarding potential significant breaches of data security or disruptions of our information technology systems; unexpected regulatory actions, or government regulation generally; exclusivity requirements with certain suppliers may prohibit us from distributing competitive products manufactured by other suppliers; loss of sales representatives; costs related to acquisitions and/or integrations of technologies or businesses; costs associated with our self-insured medical and dental insurance programs; general market and economic conditions, as well as those specific to the health care industry and related industries; our success in establishing or maintaining business relationships; unexpected difficulties in developing and manufacturing products; product demand and availability or recalls by manufacturers; 21 exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury; increases in shipping costs or service issues with our third-party shippers; fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies; restructuring costs; the adoption or repeal of legislation; and changes in accounting principles. any change in one or more of these or other factors could cause our annual or quarterly financial results to fluctuate. if our financial results do not meet market expectations, our stock price may decline. expansion of group purchasing organizations ( gpo ) or provider networks and the multi-tiered costing structure may place us at a competitive disadvantage. the medical products industry is subject to a multi-tiered costing structure, which can vary by manufacturer and/or product. under this structure, certain institutions can obtain more favorable prices for medical products than we are able to obtain. the multi-tiered costing structure continues to expand as many large integrated health care providers and others with significant purchasing power, such as gpos, demand more favorable pricing terms. additionally, the formation of provider networks and gpos may shift purchasing decisions to entities or persons with whom we do not have a historical relationship. this may threaten our ability to compete effectively, which would in turn negatively impact our financial results. although we are seeking to obtain similar terms from manufacturers, obtain access to lower prices demanded by gpo contracts or other contracts, and develop relationships with provider networks and new gpos, we cannot assure that such terms will be obtained or contracts will be executed. increases in shipping costs or service issues with our third-party shippers could harm our business. shipping is a significant expense in the operation of our business. we ship almost all of our orders through third-party delivery services, and typically bear the cost of shipment. accordingly, any significant increase in shipping rates could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. similarly, strikes or other service interruptions by those shippers could cause our operating expenses to rise and materially adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis. uncertain global macro-economic and political conditions could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. uncertain global macro-economic and political conditions that affect the economy and the economic outlook of the united states, europe and other parts of the world could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. these uncertainties, include, among other things: the united kingdom's vote to leave the european union (generally referred to as brexit) and any other similar referenda or actions by other european union member countries (during 2016, approximately 7% of our consolidated net sales were invoiced to customers in the u.k. and approximately 26% of our consolidated net sales were invoiced to customers in europe overall, including the u.k.); election results; changes to laws and policies governing foreign trade (including, without limitation, north american free trade agreement (nafta) and other international trade agreements); greater restrictions on imports and exports; 22 changes in laws and policies governing health care, including, without limitation possible repeal of the united states health care reform law; tariffs and sanctions; sovereign debt levels; the inability of political institutions to effectively resolve actual or perceived economic, currency or budgetary crises or issues; consumer confidence; unemployment levels (and a corresponding increase in the uninsured and underinsured population); changes in regulatory and tax regulations; increases in interest rates; availability of capital; increases in fuel and energy costs; changes in tax rates and the availability of certain tax deductions; increases in health care costs; the threat or outbreak of terrorism or public unrest; and changes in laws and policies governing manufacturing, development and investment in territories and countries where we do business additionally, changes in government, government debt and/or budget crises may lead to reductions in government spending in certain countries, which could reduce overall health care spending, and/or higher income or corporate taxes, which could depress spending overall. recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending may also cause customers to reduce, modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may cause suppliers to reduce their output or change their terms of sale. we generally sell products to customers with payment terms. if customers' cash flow or operating and financial performance deteriorates, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment to us. likewise, for similar reasons suppliers may restrict credit or impose different payment terms. any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for our products and/or services or any demands by suppliers for different payment terms may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. disruptions in the financial markets may materially adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us. our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. disruptions in the financial markets may materially adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us. 23 the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. a variety of factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including: the publication of earnings estimates or other research reports and speculation in the press or investment community; changes in our industry and competitors; changes in government or legislation; our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and prospects; stock repurchases; any future issuances of our common stock, which may include primary offerings for cash, stock splits, issuances in connection with business acquisitions, issuances of restricted stock/units and the grant or exercise of stock options from time to time; general market and economic conditions; and any outbreak or escalation of hostilities in areas where we do business. in addition, the nasdaq stock market can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies listed on nasdaq. broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. this type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. the health care industry is experiencing changes that could materially adversely affect our business. the health care industry is highly regulated and subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. in recent years, the health care industry has undergone, and is in the process of undergoing, significant changes driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including, among other things: trends toward managed care; consolidation of health care distribution companies; consolidation of health care manufacturers; collective purchasing arrangements and consolidation among office-based health care practitioners; and changes in reimbursements to customers, as well as growing enforcement activities (and related monetary recoveries) by governmental officials. both our profitability and the profitability of our customers may be materially adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services, changing the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined and, in the case of animal health practitioners, changes in the use of feed additives (including, without limitation, antibiotics and growth promotants) used in the production of animal products due to trade restrictions, animal welfare and/or government regulations; and changes in customer buying habits (including customers purchasing animal health pharmaceuticals outside the veterinarians' offices). if we are unable to react effectively to these and other changes in the health care industry, our financial results could be materially adversely affected. the implementation of the health care reform law could materially adversely affect our business. the united states patient protection and affordable care act as amended by the health care and education reconciliation act, each enacted in march 2010, generally known as the health care reform law, significantly expand health insurance coverage to uninsured americans and changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private payers. 24 the health care reform law contains many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and to reduce costs of medicare and medicaid, including imposing a 2.3% excise tax on domestic sales of many medical devices by manufacturers and importers that began in 2013, and a fee on branded prescription drugs and biologics that was implemented in 2011, both of which may adversely affect sales and cost of goods sold. however, with respect to the medical device excise tax, a two-year moratorium was imposed under the consolidated appropriations act, 2016, suspending the imposition of the tax on device sales during the period beginning january 1, 2016 and ending on december 31, 2017. the health care reform law has also materially expanded the number of individuals in the united states with health insurance. the health care reform law has faced ongoing legal challenges, including litigation seeking to invalidate some of or all of the law or the manner in which it has been implemented. in addition, the president and the majorities in both houses of congress have stated their intention to repeal the health care reform law. the uncertain status of the health care reform law also affects our ability to plan. another notable medicare health care reform initiative, the macra, enacted on april 16, 2015, establishes a new payment framework, called the quality payment program, which modifies certain medicare payments to eligible clinicians, including physicians, dentists and other practitioners. under macra, eligible clinicians will be required to participate in medicare through mips or apms. mips generally will consolidate three current programs; the physician quality reporting system, the value-based payment modifier, and the medicare ehr program into a single program in which medicare reimbursement to eligible clinicians will include both positive and negative payment adjustments that take into account quality, resource use, clinical practice improvement and meaningful use of certified ehr technology. advanced apms generally involve higher levels of financial and technology risk. the final rule was published in the federal register on november 4, 2016 and announced some flexibilities that will allow eligible medicare clinicians to pick their pace of participation for the first performance period that began january 1, 2017. the data collected in the first performance year will determine payment adjustments beginning january 1, 2019. macra represents a fundamental change in physician reimbursement that is expected to provide substantial financial incentives for physicians to participate in risk contracts, and to increase physician information technology and reporting obligations. the implications of the implementation of macra are uncertain and will depend on future regulatory activity and physician activity in the marketplace. macra may encourage physicians to move from smaller practices to larger physician groups or hospital employment, leading to a consolidation of a portion of our customer base. although we believe that we are positioned to capitalize on this consolidation trend, there can be no assurances that we will be able to successfully accomplish this. the implementation of the reporting and disclosure obligations of the physician payment sunshine act provisions of the health care reform law could adversely affect our business. a health care reform law provision, generally referred to as the physician payment sunshine act or open payments program, imposes reporting and disclosure requirements for drug and device manufacturers with regard to payments or other transfers of value made to certain practitioners (including physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals), and for such manufacturers and for group purchasing organizations, with regard to certain ownership interests held by physicians in the reporting entity. cms publishes information from these reports on a publicly available website, including amounts transferred and physician, dentist and teaching hospital identities. under the physician payment sunshine act we are required to collect and report detailed information regarding certain financial relationships we have with physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals . we believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable physician payment sunshine act requirements. the physician payment sunshine act pre-empts similar state reporting laws, although we or our subsidiaries may also be required to report under certain state transparency laws that address circumstances not covered by the physician payment sunshine act, and some of these state laws, as well as the federal law, can be ambiguous. we are also subject to foreign regulations requiring transparency of certain interactions between suppliers and their customers. while we believe we have substantially compliant programs and controls in place to comply with these reporting requirements, our compliance with these new rules imposes additional costs on us. failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could materially adversely affect our business. our business is subject to requirements under various local, state, federal and international laws and regulations 25 applicable to the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices , and human cells, tissue and cellular and tissue-based products, also known as hct/p products , and animal feed and supplements. among the federal laws with which we must comply are the controlled substances act, the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, as amended, and section 361 of the public health services act. among other things, such laws, and the regulations promulgated thereunder: regulate the storage and distribution, labeling, packaging, handling, reporting, record keeping, introduction, manufacturing and marketing of drugs, hct/p products and medical devices; subject us to inspection by the fda and the dea; regulate the storage, transportation and disposal of certain of our products that are considered hazardous materials; require us to advertise and promote our drugs and devices in accordance with applicable fda requirements; require registration with the fda and the dea and various state agencies; require record keeping and documentation of transactions involving drug products; require us to design and operate a system to identify and report suspicious orders of controlled substances to the dea; require us to manage returns of products that have been recalled and subject us to inspection of our recall procedures and activities; and impose reporting requirements if a pharmaceutical, hct/p product or medical device causes serious illness, injury or death. applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations also may require us to meet various standards relating to, among other things, licensure or registration, sales and marketing practices, product integrity and supply tracking to the manufacturer of the product, personnel, privacy and security of health or other personal information, installation, maintenance and repair of equipment, and the importation and exportation of products. our business also is subject to requirements of similar and other foreign governmental laws and regulations affecting our operations abroad. the fda and dea have recently increased their regulatory and enforcement activities. the failure to comply with any of these regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or the imposition of any additional laws and regulations, could materially adversely affect our business. there can be no assurance that current government regulations will not adversely affect our business. the costs to us associated with complying with the various applicable statutes and regulations, as they now exist and as they may be modified, could be material. allegations by a governmental body that we have not complied with these laws could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. while we believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable fraud and abuse and other laws and regulations, and believe we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, if it is determined that we have not complied with these laws, we are potentially subject to penalties including warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, mandatory recall of product, seizure of product and injunction, consent decrees, and suspension or limitation of product sale and distribution. if we enter into settlement agreements to resolve allegations of non-compliance, we could be required to make settlement payments or be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the loss of licenses. non-compliance with government requirements could adversely affect our ability to participate in federal and state government health care programs and damage our reputation. 26 if we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to health care fraud or other laws and regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations, which could materially adversely affect our business. certain of our businesses are subject to federal and state (and similar foreign) health care fraud and abuse, referral and reimbursement laws and regulations with respect to their operations. some of these laws, referred to as false claims laws, prohibit the submission or causing the submission of false or fraudulent claims for reimbursement to federal, state and other health care payers and programs. other laws, referred to as anti-kickback laws, prohibit soliciting, offering, receiving or paying remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient or ordering, purchasing, leasing or arranging for or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing, of items or services that are paid for by federal, state and other health care payers and programs. health care fraud measures may implicate, for example, our relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers, our pricing and incentive programs for physician and dental practices, and our dental and physician practice management products that offer billing-related functionality. the fraud and abuse regulations have been subject to varying interpretations, as well as heightened enforcement activity, over the past few years, and significant enforcement activity has been the result of relators, who serve as whistleblowers by filing complaints in the name of the united states (and if applicable, particular states) under federal and state false claims laws. under the federal false claims act relators can be entitled to receive up to 30% of total recoveries. also, violations of the federal false claims act can result in treble damages, and, in accordance with an interim final rule published by the department of justice on june 30, 2016, which substantially increased maximum civil penalties for false claims act violations, the amounts for civil penalties assessed after august 1, 2016, whose associated violations occurred after november 2, 2015, were increased from $11,000 per claim for pre-november 2, 2011 violations to up to $21,563 per claim. most states have adopted similar state false claims laws, and these state laws have their own penalties which may be in addition to federal false claims act penalties. the health care reform law significantly strengthened the federal false claims act and the federal anti-kickback law provisions, which could lead to the possibility of increased whistleblower or relator suits, and among other things made clear that a federal anti-kickback law violation can be a basis for federal false claims act liability. the united states government (among others) has expressed concerns about financial relationships between suppliers on the one hand and physicians and dentists on the other. as a result, we regularly review and revise our marketing practices as necessary to facilitate compliance. we also are subject to certain united states and foreign laws and regulations concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act, the german anti-corruption law and other anti-bribery laws, anti-corruption laws, and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records, which have been the focus of increasing enforcement activity globally in recent years. our businesses are generally subject to numerous other laws and regulations that could impact our financial results, including, without limitation, securities, antitrust and marketing laws and regulations. failure to comply with laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. failure to comply with fraud and abuse laws and regulations and other laws and regulations could result in significant civil and criminal penalties and costs, including the loss of licenses and the ability to participate in federal and state health care programs, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. also, these measures may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations or incur substantial defense and settlement expenses. even unsuccessful challenges by regulatory authorities or private relators could result in reputational harm and the incurring of substantial costs. in addition, many of these laws are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, and have been subject to frequent modification and varied interpretation by prosecutorial and regulatory authorities, increasing the risk of non compliance. we may determine to enter into settlements, make payments, agree to consent decrees or enter into other arrangements to resolve such matters. for example, one of our subsidiaries recently resolved an investigation by the federal trade commission related to the manner in which it advertised certain data security features of its dental practice management software, which resulted in a consent order and fine. failure to comply with consent decrees could materially adversely affect our business. 27 while we believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable fraud and abuse and other laws and regulations, and believe we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, we cannot predict whether changes in applicable law, or interpretation of laws, or changes in our services or marketing practices in response to changes in applicable law or interpretation of laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to the confidentiality of sensitive personal information or standards in electronic health data transmissions, we could be required to make significant changes to our products, or incur substantial fines, penalties or other liabilities. our businesses that involve physician and dental practice management products include electronic information technology systems that store and process personal health, clinical, financial and other sensitive information of individuals. these information technology systems may be vulnerable to breakdown, wrongful intrusions, data breaches and malicious attack, which could require us to expend significant resources to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns, and could involve claims against us by private parties and/or governmental agencies. for example, we are directly or indirectly subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that protect the privacy and security of such information, such as hipaa. hipaa requires, among other things, the implementation of various recordkeeping, operational, notice and other practices intended to safeguard that information, limit its use to allowed purposes and notify individuals in the event of privacy and security breaches. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to breach of contract claims, substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation. also, evolving laws and regulations in this area could restrict the ability of our customers to obtain, use or disseminate patient information, or could require us to incur significant additional costs to re-design our products in a timely manner to reflect these legal requirements, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. other health information standards, such as regulations under hipaa, establish standards regarding electronic health data transmissions and transaction code set rules for specific electronic transactions, such as transactions involving claims submissions to third party payers. certain of our businesses provide electronic practice management products that must meet these requirements. failure to abide by electronic health data transmission standards could expose us to breach of contract claims, substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation. in addition, federal initiatives provide a program of incentive payments available to certain health care providers involving the adoption and use of certain electronic health care records systems and processes. the initiatives include providing, among others, physicians and dentists, with financial incentives if they meaningfully use certified ehr systems in accordance with applicable and evolving requirements. in addition, medicare-eligible providers that fail to timely adopt certified ehr systems and meet meaningful use requirements for those systems in accordance with regulatory requirements are to be subject to cumulative medicare reimbursement reductions, which reductions for applicable health professionals (including physicians and dentists) began on january 1, 2015. qualification for the incentive payments requires the use of ehrs that have certain capabilities for meaningful use pursuant to evolving standards adopted by cms and onc. on october 6, 2015, cms and onc released comprehensive final rules with respect to the ehr program that, among other things, established the more challenging stage 3 criteria, making certain adjustments to stage 1 and stage 2 standards (e.g., reducing the 2015 reporting period from a full year to 90 days), and finalized 2015 edition health technology (hit) certification criteria (which is now added to the existing 2014 edition hit certification criteria, but not required until 2018). notably, under the new rules, compliance with stage 3 standards is optional for providers in 2017, and would generally be required for all eligible providers (regardless of prior participation in the ehr incentive program) for 2018 reporting periods and subsequently. developers and others involved in the manufacture of ehr program technology will have this interim period to develop and certify products, and work with customers to implement products for the 2018 ehr program period. in connection with the release of the october 6 rules, hhs has also stated it will continue to modify applicable ehr program standards. on november 14, 2016, cms published a final rule that will impact medicare and medicaid ehr incentive programs through revisions to the objectives and measures for eligible hospitals, critical access hospitals, and dual-eligible 28 hospitals. in addition, under macra, which establishes mips, over the next few years the ehr program is expected to become part of a more comprehensive federal quality measurement and incentive program, apparently with modified applicable requirements, and cms has indicated that it may even supplant certain stage 3 rules with more streamlined mips approaches. certain of our businesses involve the manufacture and sale of certified ehr systems and other products linked to incentive programs, and therefore we must maintain compliance with, and are affected by, these changing governmental criteria. our global operations are subject to inherent risks that could materially adversely affect our business. global operations are subject to risks that may materially adversely affect our business. the risks that our global operations are subject to include, among other things: difficulties and costs relating to staffing and managing foreign operations; difficulties in establishing channels of distribution; fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies; longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions; repatriation of cash from our foreign operations to the united states; regulatory requirements; anti-bribery, anti-corruption and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records; unexpected difficulties in importing or exporting our products; imposition of import/export tariffs, quotas, sanctions or penalties; difficulties and delays inherent in sourcing products and contract manufacturing in foreign markets; limitations on our ability under local laws to protect our intellectual property; unexpected regulatory, legal, economic and political changes in foreign markets; changes in tax regulations that influence purchases of capital equipment; civil disturbances, geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism, war or political or military coups; and public health emergencies. our expansion through acquisitions and joint ventures involves risks. we have expanded our domestic and international markets in part through acquisitions and joint ventures, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions and enter into joint ventures in the future. such transactions involve numerous risks, including possible material adverse effects on our financial results or the market price of our common stock. some of our acquisitions and future acquisitions may also give rise to an obligation by us to make contingent payments or to satisfy certain repurchase obligations, which payments could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. in addition, integrating acquired businesses and joint ventures: may result in a loss of customers or product lines of the acquired businesses or joint ventures; requires significant management attention; 29 may place significant demands on our operations, information systems and financial resources; and results in additional acquisition and integration expenses. there can be no assurance that our future acquisitions or joint ventures will be successful. our ability to continue to successfully effect acquisitions and joint ventures will depend upon the following: the availability of suitable acquisition or joint venture candidates at acceptable prices; our ability to consummate such transactions, which could potentially be prohibited due to u.s. or foreign antitrust regulations; the availability of financing on acceptable terms, in the case of non-stock transactions; the liquidity of our investments and our ability to raise capital could be affected by the financial credit markets; and our ability to retain, recruit and incentivize the management of the companies we acquire. our acquisitions may not result in the benefits and revenue growth we expect. we are in the process of integrating companies that we acquired and including the operations, services, products and personnel of each company within our management policies, procedures and strategies. we cannot be sure that we will achieve the benefits of revenue growth that we expect from these acquisitions or that we will not incur unforeseen additional costs or expenses in connection with these acquisitions. to effectively manage our expected future growth, we must continue to manage successfully our integration of these companies and continue to improve our operational systems, internal procedures, working capital management and financial and operational controls. if we fail in any of these areas, our business could be materially adversely affected. we face inherent risk of exposure to product liability, intellectual property infringement and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury. our business involves a risk of product liability , intellectual property infringement and other claims in the ordinary course of business, and from time to time we are named as a defendant in cases as a result of our distribution of products. additionally, we own interests in companies that manufacture certain dental products. as a result, we are subject to the potential risk of product liability , intellectual property infringement or other claims relating to the manufacture and distribution of products by those entities. additionally, as our private-label business continues to grow, purchasers of such products may increasingly seek recourse directly from us, rather than the ultimate product manufacturer, for product-related claims. another potential risk we face in the distribution of our products is liability resulting from counterfeit or tainted products infiltrating the supply chain. in addition, some of the products that we transport and sell are considered hazardous materials. the improper handling of such materials or accidents involving the transportation of such materials could subject us to liability. we have various insurance policies, including product liability insurance, covering risks and in amounts that we consider adequate. in many cases in which we have been sued in connection with products manufactured by others, the manufacturer of the product provides us with indemnification. there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost, or that indemnification agreements will provide us with adequate protection. a successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance or not covered by indemnification agreements, or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us, could have a material adverse effect on our business and our reputation. our technology segment depends upon continued software and e-services product development, technical support and successful marketing. competition among companies supplying practice management software and/or e-services is intense and increasing. our future sales of practice management software and e-services will depend on, among other factors: the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs; 30 our ability to enhance our products and services to satisfy customer requirements; and our ability to provide ongoing technical support. we cannot be sure that we will be successful in introducing and marketing new software, software enhancements or e-services, or that such software, software enhancements and e-services will be released on time or accepted by the market. our software and applicable e-services products, like software products generally, may contain undetected errors or bugs when introduced or as new versions are released. we cannot be sure that future problems with post-release software errors or bugs will not occur. any such defective software may result in increased expenses related to the software and could adversely affect our relationships with the customers using such software as well as our reputation. we do not have any patents on our software or e-services, and rely upon copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as contractual and common law protections. we cannot provide assurance that such legal protections will be available or enforceable to protect our software or e-services products. we may experience competition from third-party online commerce sites. traditional health care supply and distribution relationships are being challenged by electronic online commerce solutions. the continued advancement of online commerce by third parties will require us to cost-effectively adapt to changing technologies, to enhance existing services and to differentiate our business (including with additional value-added services) to address changing demands of consumers and our customers on a timely basis. the emergence of such potential competition and our inability to anticipate and effectively respond to changes on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business. security risks generally associated with our information systems and our technology products and services could materially adversely affect our business, and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if our information systems (or third-party systems we rely on) are interrupted, damaged by unforeseen events, are subject to cyberattacks or fail for any extended period of time. we rely on information systems (is) in our business to obtain, rapidly process, analyze, manage and store data to, among other things: maintain and manage worldwide systems to facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution centers; receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis; manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; process payments to suppliers; and provide products and services that maintain certain of our customers' electronic medical or dental records (including protected health information of their patients). information security risks have generally increased in recent years, and a cyberattack that bypasses our is security systems causing an is security breach may lead to a material disruption of our is business systems and/or the loss of business information resulting in a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we develop products and provide services to our customers that are technology-based, and a cyberattack that bypasses the is security systems of our products or services causing a security breach and/or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products or services could also cause significant reputational harm, and actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies. in particular, certain of our practice management products and services purchased by health care providers, such as physicians and dentists, are used to store and manage patient medical or dental records. these customers are subject to laws and regulations, such as hipaa, which require that they protect the privacy and security of those records, and our products may be used as part of these customers' comprehensive data security programs, including in connection with their efforts to comply with applicable privacy and security laws. perceived or actual security vulnerabilities in our products or services, or the perceived or actual failure by us or our customers who use our 31 products to comply with applicable legal requirements, may not only cause us significant reputational harm, but may also lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies and involve fines and penalties, costs for remediation, and substantial defense and settlement expenses. regarding direct customer claims, although our customer license agreements typically contain provisions that seek to eliminate or limit our exposure to such liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenges, or that we will be able to obtain such provisions in all cases. in addition, our information systems also utilize certain third party service organizations that manage a portion of our information systems, and our business may be materially adversely affected if these third party service organizations are subject to an is security breach. additionally, legislative or regulatory action related to cybersecurity may increase our costs to develop or implement new technology products and services. risks associated with these and other is security breaches may include, among other things: future results could be materially adversely affected due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property; operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of information systems and subsequent clean-up and mitigation activities; procedures and safeguards must continually evolve to meet new is challenges, and enhancing protections, and conducting investigations and remediation, may impose additional costs on us; we may incur claims, fines and penalties, and costs for remediation, or substantial defense and settlement expenses; and negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our customers, partners or industry peers. we also deliver internet-based services and, accordingly, depend on our ability and the ability of our customers to access the internet. in the event of any difficulties, outages and delays by internet service providers, we may be impeded from providing such services, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and our reputation. we have various insurance policies, including cyber liability insurance, covering risks and in amounts that we consider adequate. there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost. successful claims for misappropriation or release of confidential or personal data brought against us in excess of available insurance or fines or other penalties assessed or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us could have a material adverse effect on our business and our reputation. certain provisions in our governing documents and other documents to which we are a party may discourage third-party offers to acquire us that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price of their shares. the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, may discourage acquisition bids and may limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions, among other things: require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 60% of the shares of common stock entitled to vote to approve a merger, consolidation, or a sale, lease, transfer or exchange of all or substantially all of our assets; and require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our common stock entitled to vote to (i) remove a director; and (ii) to amend or repeal our by-laws, with certain limited exceptions. in addition, our 2013 stock incentive plan and 2015 non-employee director stock incentive plan provide for accelerated vesting of stock options upon a change in control. these incentive plans also authorize the committee 32 under the plans to provide for accelerated vesting of other types of equity awards in connection with a change in control at grant or thereafter, and certain other awards made under these incentive plans (such as restricted stock/unit awards) accelerate upon a change in control or upon certain termination events in connection with a change in control. further, certain agreements between us and our executive officers provide for increased severance payments and certain benefits if those executive officers are terminated without cause by us or if they terminate for good reason in each case, within two years after a change in control or within ninety days prior to the effective date of the change in control or after the first public announcement of the pendency of the change in control. tax legislation could materially adversely affect our financial results and tax liabilities. we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the united states federal, state and local governments, as well as foreign jurisdictions. from time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could materially adversely affect our tax positions. there can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not be materially adversely affected by legislation resulting from these initiatives. in addition, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. although we believe that our historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk .......................................................................................................................................................... 67 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates as measured against the u.s. dollar and each other, and changes to the credit markets. we attempt to minimize these risks by primarily using foreign currency forward contracts and by maintaining counter-party credit limits. these hedging activities provide only limited protection against currency exchange and credit risks. factors that could influence the effectiveness of our hedging programs include currency markets and availability of hedging instruments and liquidity of the credit markets. all foreign currency forward contracts that we enter into are components of hedging programs and are entered into for the sole purpose of hedging an existing or anticipated currency exposure. we do not enter into such contracts for speculative purposes and we manage our credit risks by diversifying our investments, maintaining a strong balance sheet and having multiple sources of capital. foreign currency agreements the value of certain foreign currencies as compared to the u.s. dollar and the value of certain underlying functional currencies of the company, including its foreign subsidiaries, may affect our financial results. fluctuations in exchange rates may positively or negatively affect our revenues, gross margins, operating expenses and retained earnings, all of which are expressed in u.s. dollars. where we deem it prudent, we engage in hedging programs using primarily foreign currency forward contracts aimed at limiting the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on earnings. we purchase short-term (i.e., 18 months or less) foreign currency forward contracts to protect against currency exchange risks associated with intercompany loans due from our international subsidiaries and the payment of merchandise purchases to foreign suppliers. we do not hedge the translation of foreign currency profits into u.s. dollars, as we regard this as an accounting exposure, not an economic exposure. a hypothetical 5% change in the average value of the u.s. dollar in 2016 compared to foreign currencies would have changed our 2016 reported net income attributable to henry schein, inc. by approximately $6.3 million. as of december 31, 2016, we had foreign currency exchange agreements, which expire through may 31, 2017, which include a mark-to-market gain of $0.3 million as determined by quoted market prices. a hypothetical 5% change in the value of the u.s. dollar would change the notional value of our foreign currency exchange agreements by $3.5 million. short-term investments we limit our credit risk with respect to our cash equivalents, short-term investments and derivative instruments, by monitoring the credit worthiness of the financial institutions who are the counter-parties to such financial instruments. as a risk management policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure by diversifying and utilizing numerous investment grade counter-parties. variable interest rate debt as of december 31, 2016, we had variable interest rate exposure for certain of our revolving credit facilities and our u.s. trade accounts receivable securitization. our revolving credit facility which we entered into on september 22, 2014 and expires on september 22, 2019, has an interest rate that is based on the u.s. dollar libor plus a spread based on our leverage ratio at the end of each financial reporting quarter. as of december 31, 2016, there was $65.0 million outstanding under this revolving credit facility. during the year ended december 31, 2016, the average outstanding balance under this revolving credit facility was approximately $214.0 million. based upon our average outstanding balance for this revolving credit facility, for each hypothetical increase of 25 basis points, our interest expense thereunder would have increased by $0.5 million. our u.s trade accounts receivable securitization, which we entered into on april 17, 2013 and which expires on april 29, 2019, has an interest rate that is based upon the asset-backed commercial paper rate of 101 basis points plus 75 basis points. as of december 31, 2016, we had an outstanding balance of $350.0 million under this securitization facility. during the year ended december 31, 2016, the average outstanding balance under this securitization facility was approximately $322.0 million. based upon our average outstanding balance for this securitization facility, for each hypothetical increase of 25 basis points, our interest expense thereunder would have increased by $0.8 million. 67risk factors ......................................................................................................................................................................... 21 risk factors for a discussion of additional burdens, risks and regulatory developments that may affect our results of operations and financial condition. proprietary rights we hold trademarks relating to the henry schein name and logo, as well as certain other trademarks. we intend to protect our trademarks to the fullest extent practicable. 16 table of contents employees as of december 30, 2017, we employed more than 22,000 full-time employees, including approximately 2,300 telesales representatives, over 4,200 field sales consultants, including equipment sales specialists, 4,700 warehouse employees, 700 computer programmers and technicians, 1,100 management employees and 9,400 office, clerical and administrative employees. at december 30, 2017, 2,076, or 9%, of our employees were subject to collective bargaining agreements. we believe that our relations with our employees are excellent. available information we make available free of charge through our internet website, www.henryschein.com , our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, statements of beneficial ownership of securities on forms 3, 4 and 5 and amendments to these reports and statements filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) and section 16 of the securities exchange act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the united states securities and exchange commission, or sec. the above information is also available at the sec's office of investor education and advocacy at united states securities and exchange commission, 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549-0213 or obtainable by calling the sec at (800) 732-0330. in addition, the sec maintains an internet website at www.sec.gov , where the above information can be viewed. our principal executive offices are located at 135 duryea road, melville, new york 11747, and our telephone number is (631) 843-5500. unless the context specifically requires otherwise, the terms the company, henry schein, we, us and our mean henry schein, inc., a delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. 17 table of contents executive officers of the registrant the following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers: name age position stanley m. bergman ...................................................................................................................................................... 68 chairman, chief executive officer, director gerald a. benjamin ........................................................................................................................................................ 65 executive vice president, chief administrative officer, director james p. breslawski ...................................................................................................................................................... 64 president, henry schein and ceo, global dental group, director michael s. ettinger ........................................................................................................................................................ 56 senior vice president, corporate &amp; legal affairs and chief of staff, secretary david c. mckinley ........................................................................................................................................................ 65 chief commercial officer and president, corporate commercial development group mark e. mlotek ............................................................................................................................................................. 62 executive vice president, chief strategic officer, director steven paladino ............................................................................................................................................................. 60 executive vice president, chief financial officer, director karen prange ................................................................................................................................................................. 54 executive vice president and chief executive officer, global animal health, medical and dental surgical group walter siegel ................................................................................................................................................................ 58 senior vice president and general counsel stanley m. bergman has been our chairman and chief executive officer since 1989 and a director since 1982. mr. bergman held the position of president from 1989 to 2005. mr. bergman held the position of executive vice president from 1985 to 1989 and vice president of finance and administration from 1980 to 1985. gerald a. benjamin has been our executive vice president and chief administrative officer since 2000 and a director since 1994. prior to holding his current position, mr. benjamin was senior vice president of administration and customer satisfaction since 1993. mr. benjamin was vice president of distribution operations from 1990 to 1992 and director of materials management from 1988 to 1990. before joining us in 1988, mr. benjamin was employed for 12 years at est e lauder, inc., in various management positions where his last position was director of materials planning and control. james p. breslawski has been our president since 2005 and a director since 1992. mr. breslawski is also the chief executive officer of our henry schein global dental group. mr. breslawski held the position of executive vice president and president of u.s. dental from 1990 to 2005, with primary responsibility for the north american dental group. between 1980 and 1990, mr. breslawski held various positions with us, including chief financial officer, vice president of finance and administration and corporate controller. michael s. ettinger has been senior vice president, corporate &amp; legal affairs, chief of staff and secretary since 2015. prior to his current position, mr. ettinger served as senior vice president, corporate &amp; legal affairs and secretary from 2013 to 2015, corporate senior vice president, general counsel &amp; secretary from 2006 to 2013, vice president, general counsel and secretary from 2000 to 2006, vice president and associate general counsel from 1998 to 2000 and associate general counsel from 1994 to 1998. before joining us, mr. ettinger served as a senior associate with bower &amp; gardner and as a member of the tax department at arthur andersen. david c. mckinley has been chief commercial officer and president, corporate commercial development group since 2016. before assuming his current position, mr. mckinley was president of henry schein's medical group since 2008. mr. mckinley was president of henry schein practice solutions from 2006 to 2008 and president of dental prosthetic solutions from 2005 to 2006. prior to joining us, mr. mckinley served as the group executive for olympus medical north america and as general manager for the bard urology and bard germany businesses. mr. mckinley currently serves on the health industry distributors association (hida) education foundation. 18 table of contents mark e. mlotek has been executive vice president and chief strategic officer since 2012. mr. mlotek was senior vice president and subsequently executive vice president of the corporate business development group between 2000 and 2012. prior to that, mr. mlotek was vice president, general counsel and secretary from 1994 to 1999 and became a director in 1995. prior to joining us, mr. mlotek was a partner in the law firm of proskauer rose llp, counsel to us, specializing in mergers and acquisitions, corporate reorganizations and tax law from 1989 to 1994. steven paladino has been our executive vice president and chief financial officer since 2000. prior to holding his current position, mr. paladino was senior vice president and chief financial officer from 1993 to 2000 and has been a director since 1992. from 1990 to 1992, mr. paladino served as vice president and treasurer and from 1987 to 1990 served as corporate controller. before joining us, mr. paladino was employed in public accounting for seven years, most recently with the international accounting firm of bdo usa, llp. mr. paladino is a certified public accountant. karen prange has been executive vice president and chief executive officer, global animal health, medical and dental surgical group since 2016. before joining us, ms. prange was senior vice president and president, urology and pelvic health at boston scientific corporation since 2012 and held various positions of increasing responsibility at johnson &amp; johnson, most recently as general manager of the micrus endovascular and codman neurovascular businesses. ms. prange is a member of the committee of 200 (c200), a membership organization of the world's most successful women entrepreneurs and corporate innovators. walter siegel has been senior vice president and general counsel since 2013. prior to joining us, mr. siegel was employed with standard microsystems corporation, a publicly traded global semiconductor company from 2005 to 2012, holding positions of increasing responsibility, most recently as senior vice president, general counsel and secretary. other executive management the following table sets forth certain information regarding other executive management: name age position james a. harding .............................................................................................................................................................. 62 senior vice president, chief technology officer peter mccarthy ................................................................................................................................................................ 58 president, global animal health group lorelei mcglynn ............................................................................................................................................................... 54 senior vice president, global human resources and financial operations bob minowitz ................................................................................................................................................................... 59 president, international dental group, emea region michael racioppi ............................................................................................................................................................... 63 senior vice president, chief merchandising officer paul rose ......................................................................................................................................................................... 60 senior vice president, global supply chain james a. harding has been our corporate chief technology officer since 2005 and senior vice president since 2001. prior to holding his current position, mr. harding was chief information officer since 2001, with primary responsibility for worldwide information technology. peter mccarthy has been president, global animal health group since 2015. prior to holding his current position, mr. mccarthy was president, henry schein international animal health from 2012 to 2015 and president, henry schein animal health, europe from 2010 to 2012. prior to joining us, mr. mccarthy was employed with schering-plough animal health (now merck animal health), serving as senior director, global operations and general manager, china. mr. mccarthy also worked at wyeth/american cyanamid for 14 years, helping to grow the human pharmaceutical business. 19 table of contents lorelei mcglynn has served as senior vice president, global human resources and financial operations since 2013. since joining us in 1999, ms. mcglynn has served as vice president, global human resources and financial operations from 2008 to 2013, chief financial officer, international group and vice president of global financial operations from 2002 to 2008 and vice president, finance, north america from 1999 to 2002. prior to joining us, ms. mcglynn served as assistant vice president of finance at adecco corporation. bob minowitz has been president of henry schein's international dental group since 2012 with the addition of responsibility for the emea region beginning in 2016. before assuming his current position, mr. minowitz held a number of key roles with increasing responsibility throughout the company, including president, henry schein european dental group from 2009 to 2012, president, henry schein western europe, middle east and pacific regions from 2006 to 2009, managing director, henry schein u.k. holdings from 2004 to 2006, president henry schein western europe from 2004 to 2006 and president henry schein europe from 2001 to 2004. prior to joining us, mr. minowitz was employed by bristol-myers company as a senior internal auditor. michael racioppi has been our senior vice president, chief merchandising officer since 2008. prior to holding his current position, mr. racioppi was president of the medical division from 2000 to 2008 and interim president from 1999 to 2000, and corporate vice president from 1994 to 2008, with primary responsibility for the medical group, marketing and merchandising departments. mr. racioppi served as senior director, corporate merchandising from 1992 to 1994. before joining us in 1992, mr. racioppi was employed by ketchum distributors, inc. as the vice president of purchasing and marketing. he currently serves on the board of national distribution and contracting and previously served on the board of health distribution management association and health industry distributors association (hida). paul rose has served as senior vice president, global supply chain since 2013. prior to holding his current position, mr. rose held a number of key roles with increasing responsibility throughout the company, including serving as vice president, global supply chain from 2008 to 2013, vice president, global inventory management from 2004 to 2008 and vice president, inventory management, north america from 2001 to 2004. he also served on the hida supply chain advisory council and as the national wholesale druggists' associations pharmaceutical market committee chairman. 20 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition and/or the trading price of our common stock. although it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties, they may include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider not to be material to our operations. you should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all risks and uncertainties. the order in which these factors appear should not be construed to indicate their relative importance or priority. the health care products distribution industry is highly competitive and consolidating, and we may not be able to compete successfully. we compete with numerous companies, including several major manufacturers and distributors. some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, which could allow them to compete more successfully. most of our products are available from several sources and our customers tend to have relationships with several distributors. competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market particular products, which we would then be unable to market. manufacturers also could increase their efforts to sell directly to end-users and thereby eliminate or reduce our role and the roles of other distributors. industry consolidation among health care product distributors, price competition, the unavailability of products, whether due to our inability to gain access to products or to interruptions in supply from manufacturers, or the emergence of new competitors, also could increase competition. there has also been increasing consolidation among manufacturers of health care products which could have a material adverse effect on our margins and product availability. additionally, in this competitive market, some of our contracts contain minimum purchase commitments. we could be subject to charges and financial losses in the event we fail to satisfy minimum purchase commitments. in the future, we may be unable to compete successfully and competitive pressures may reduce our revenues and profitability. because substantially all of the products that we distribute are not manufactured by us, we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture and supply of substantially all of our products. we obtain substantially all of our products from third parties. generally, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to supply products to us. therefore, suppliers may not provide the products we need in the quantities we request. while there is generally more than one source of supply for most of the categories of products we sell, some key suppliers, in the aggregate, supply a significant portion of the products we sell. additionally, because we generally do not control the actual production of the products we sell, we may be subject to delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions outside of our control, including the failure to comply with applicable government requirements. the failure of manufacturers of products regulated by the fda or other governmental agencies to meet these requirements could result in product recall, cessation of sales or other market disruptions. in the event that any of our third-party suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to continue to provide the products in our required volumes, we would need to identify and obtain acceptable replacement sources on a timely basis. there is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain such alternative sources of supply on a timely basis, if at all. an extended interruption in the supply of our products, especially any high sales volume product, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, which most likely would adversely affect the value of our common stock. our revenues and profitability depend on our relationships with capable sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers of the products that we distribute. our future revenues and profitability depend on our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers. if we fail to maintain our existing relationships with such persons or fail to acquire relationships with such key persons in the future, our business may be materially adversely affected. 21 table of contents our future success is substantially dependent upon our senior management. our future success is substantially dependent upon the efforts and abilities of members of our existing senior management, particularly stanley m. bergman, chairman and chief executive officer. the loss of the services of mr. bergman could have a material adverse effect on our business. we have an employment agreement with mr. bergman. we do not currently have key man life insurance policies on any of our employees. competition for senior management is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel. we experience fluctuations in quarterly earnings. as a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. our business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly fluctuations. revenues and profitability generally have been higher in the third and fourth quarters due to the timing of sales of seasonal products (including influenza vaccine, equipment and software products), purchasing patterns of office-based health care practitioners and year-end promotions. revenues and profitability generally have been lower in the first quarter, primarily due to increased sales in the prior two quarters. we expect our historical seasonality of sales to continue in the foreseeable future. quarterly results may also be materially adversely affected by a variety of other factors, including: timing and amount of sales and marketing expenditures; timing of pricing changes offered by our suppliers; timing of the introduction of new products and services by our suppliers; timing of the release of upgrades and enhancements to our technology-related products and services; changes in or availability of supplier contracts or rebate programs; supplier rebates based upon attaining certain growth goals; changes in the way suppliers introduce or deliver products to market; costs of developing new applications and services; our ability to correctly identify customer needs and preferences and predict future needs and preferences; uncertainties regarding potential significant breaches of data security or disruptions of our information technology systems; unexpected regulatory actions, or government regulation generally; exclusivity requirements with certain suppliers, which may prohibit us from distributing competitive products manufactured by other suppliers; loss of sales representatives; costs related to acquisitions and/or integrations of technologies or businesses; costs associated with our self-insured medical and dental insurance programs; general market and economic conditions, as well as those specific to the health care industry and related industries; our success in establishing or maintaining business relationships; unexpected difficulties in developing and manufacturing products; product demand and availability, or product recalls by manufacturers; 22 table of contents exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury; increases in shipping costs or service issues with our third-party shippers; fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies; restructuring costs; the adoption or repeal of legislation; changes in accounting principles; and litigation or regulatory judgments, expenses or settlements. any change in one or more of these or other factors could cause our annual or quarterly financial results to fluctuate. if our financial results do not meet market expectations, our stock price may decline. expansion of group purchasing organizations ( gpo ) or provider networks and the multi-tiered costing structure may place us at a competitive disadvantage. the medical products industry is subject to a multi-tiered costing structure, which can vary by manufacturer and/or product. under this structure, certain institutions can obtain more favorable prices for medical products than we are able to obtain. the multi-tiered costing structure continues to expand as many large integrated health care providers and others with significant purchasing power, such as gpos, demand more favorable pricing terms. additionally, the formation of provider networks and gpos may shift purchasing decisions to entities or persons with whom we do not have a historical relationship. this may threaten our ability to compete effectively, which could in turn negatively impact our financial results. although we are seeking to obtain similar terms from manufacturers to obtain access to lower prices demanded by gpo contracts or other contracts, and to develop relationships with provider networks and new gpos, we cannot assure that such terms will be obtained or contracts will be executed. increases in shipping costs or service issues with our third-party shippers could harm our business. shipping is a significant expense in the operation of our business. we ship almost all of our orders through third-party delivery services, and typically bear the cost of shipment. accordingly, any significant increase in shipping rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. similarly, strikes or other service interruptions by those shippers could cause our operating expenses to rise and materially adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis. uncertain global macro-economic and political conditions could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. uncertain global macro-economic and political conditions that affect the economy and the economic outlook of the united states, europe and other parts of the world could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. these uncertainties, include, among other things: the united kingdom's vote to leave the european union (generally referred to as brexit) and any other similar referenda or actions by other european union member countries (during 2017, approximately 7% of our consolidated net sales were invoiced to customers in the united kingdom and approximately 25% of our consolidated net sales were invoiced to customers in europe overall, including the u.k.); election results; changes to laws and policies governing foreign trade (including, without limitation, north american free trade agreement (nafta) and other international trade agreements); greater restrictions on imports and exports; changes in laws and policies governing health care; tariffs and sanctions; 23 table of contents sovereign debt levels; the inability of political institutions to effectively resolve actual or perceived economic, currency or budgetary crises or issues; consumer confidence; unemployment levels (and a corresponding increase in the uninsured and underinsured population); changes in regulatory and tax regulations; including without limitation, the tax cuts and reform act; increases in interest rates; availability of capital; increases in fuel and energy costs; the effect of inflation on our ability to procure products and our ability to increase prices over time; changes in tax rates and the availability of certain tax deductions; increases in health care costs; the threat or outbreak of war, terrorism or public unrest; and changes in laws and policies governing manufacturing, development and investment in territories and countries where we do business. additionally, changes in government, government debt and/or budget crises may lead to reductions in government spending in certain countries, which could reduce overall health care spending, and/or higher income or corporate taxes, which could depress spending overall. recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending may also cause customers to reduce, modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may cause suppliers to reduce their output or change their terms of sale. we generally sell products to customers with payment terms. if customers' cash flow or operating and financial performance deteriorate, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment to us. likewise, for similar reasons suppliers may restrict credit or impose different payment terms. any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for our products and/or services or any demands by suppliers for different payment terms may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. disruptions in the financial markets may materially adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us. our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. disruptions in the financial markets may materially adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. a variety of factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including, but not limited to: the publication of earnings estimates or other research reports and speculation in the press or investment community; 24 table of contents changes in our industry and competitors; changes in government or legislation; our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and prospects; stock repurchases; any future issuances of our common stock, which may include primary offerings for cash, stock splits, issuances in connection with business acquisitions, issuances of restricted stock/units and the grant or exercise of stock options from time to time; general market and economic conditions; and any outbreak or escalation of hostilities in areas where we do business. in addition, the nasdaq stock market can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies listed on nasdaq. broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. this type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. the health care industry is experiencing changes that could materially adversely affect our business. the health care industry is highly regulated and subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. in recent years, the health care industry has undergone, and is in the process of undergoing, significant changes driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including, among other things: trends toward managed care; consolidation of health care distribution companies; consolidation of health care manufacturers; collective purchasing arrangements and consolidation among office-based health care practitioners; and changes in reimbursements to customers, as well as growing enforcement activities (and related monetary recoveries) by governmental officials. both our profitability and the profitability of our customers may be materially adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services, changes to the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined and, in the case of animal health practitioners, changes in the use of feed additives (including, without limitation, antibiotics and growth promotants) used in the production of animal products due to trade restrictions, animal welfare and/or government regulations; and changes in customer buying habits (including customers purchasing animal health pharmaceuticals outside the veterinarians' offices). if we are unable to react effectively to these and other changes in the health care industry, our financial results could be materially adversely affected. the implementation of the health care reform law could materially adversely affect our business. the health care reform law significantly expand health insurance coverage to uninsured americans and changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private payers. the health care reform law contains many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and to reduce costs of medicare and medicaid, including imposing a 2.3% excise tax on domestic sales of many medical devices by manufacturers and importers that began in 2013, and a fee on branded prescription drugs and biologics that was implemented in 2011, both of which may adversely affect sales and cost of goods sold. however, with respect to the medical device excise tax, a two-year moratorium was imposed under the consolidated appropriations act, 2016, suspending the imposition of the tax on device sales during the period beginning january 1, 2016 and ending on december 31, 2017, and on january 22, 2018 an additional two-year moratorium was imposed under public law no. 115-120, suspending the imposition of the tax on device sales during the period beginning january 1, 2018 and ending on december 31, 2019. the health care reform law has also materially expanded the number of individuals in the united states with health insurance. the health care 25 table of contents reform law has faced ongoing legal challenges, including litigation seeking to invalidate some of or all of the law or the manner in which it has been implemented. in addition, the president is seeking to repeal and replace the health care reform law. repeal and replace legislation has been passed in the house of representatives, but did not obtain the necessary votes in the senate. subsequently, the president has affirmed his intention to repeal and replace the health care reform law and has taken a number of administrative actions to materially weaken the health care law. on december 22, 2017, the president signed the tax cuts and jobs act into law, which contains a broad range of tax reform provisions that impact the individual and corporate tax rates, international tax provisions, income tax add-back provisions and deductions. the tax reform law also repealed the individual mandate of the health care reform law. the uncertain status of the health care reform law also affects our ability to plan. another notable medicare health care reform initiative, the medicare access and chip reauthorization act of 2015, enacted on april 16, 2015 ( macra ), establishes a new payment framework, called the quality payment program, which modifies certain medicare payments to eligible clinicians, including physicians, dentists and other practitioners. under macra, eligible clinicians will be required to participate in medicare through mips or apms. mips generally will consolidate three current programs: the physician quality reporting system, the value-based payment modifier, and the medicare ehr program into a single program in which medicare reimbursement to eligible clinicians will include both positive and negative payment adjustments that take into account quality, resource use, clinical practice improvement and meaningful use of certified ehr technology. advanced apms generally involve higher levels of financial and technology risk. a final rule was published in the federal register on november 4, 2016 and allows eligible medicare clinicians to pick their pace of participation for the first performance period that began january 1, 2017. the data collected in the first performance year will determine payment adjustments beginning january 1, 2019. a final rule updating certain quality payment program regulations was published on november 16, 2017, which is effective as of january 1, 2018. macra represents a fundamental change in physician reimbursement that is expected to provide substantial financial incentives for physicians to participate in risk contracts, and to increase physician information technology and reporting obligations. the implications of the implementation of macra are uncertain and will depend on future regulatory activity and physician activity in the marketplace. macra may encourage physicians to move from smaller practices to larger physician groups or hospital employment, leading to a consolidation of a portion of our customer base. although we believe that we are positioned to capitalize on this consolidation trend, there can be no assurances that we will be able to successfully accomplish this. the implementation of the reporting and disclosure obligations of the physician payment sunshine act provisions of the health care reform law could adversely affect our business. a health care reform law provision, generally referred to as the physician payment sunshine act, or open payments program, imposes reporting and disclosure requirements for drug and device manufacturers with regard to payments or other transfers of value made to certain practitioners (including physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals), and for such manufacturers and for group purchasing organizations, with regard to certain ownership interests held by physicians in the reporting entity. cms publishes information from these reports on a publicly available website, including amounts transferred and physician, dentist and teaching hospital identities. under the physician payment sunshine act we are required to collect and report detailed information regarding certain financial relationships we have with physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals . we believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable physician payment sunshine act requirements. the physician payment sunshine act pre-empts similar state reporting laws, although we or our subsidiaries may also be required to report under certain state transparency laws that address circumstances not covered by the physician payment sunshine act, and some of these state laws, as well as the federal law, can be ambiguous. we are also subject to foreign regulations requiring transparency of certain interactions between suppliers and their customers. while we believe we have substantially compliant programs and controls in place to comply with these reporting requirements, our compliance with these new rules imposes additional costs on us. 26 table of contents failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could materially adversely affect our business. our business is subject to requirements under various local, state, federal and international laws and regulations applicable to the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices , and human cells, tissue and cellular and tissue-based products, also known as hct/p products , and animal feed and supplements. among the federal laws with which we must comply are the controlled substances act, the federal food, drug, and cosmetic act, as amended, and section 361 of the public health services act. among other things, such laws, and the regulations promulgated thereunder: regulate the storage and distribution, labeling, packaging, handling, reporting, record keeping, introduction, manufacturing and marketing of drugs, hct/p products and medical devices; subject us to inspection by the fda and the dea; regulate the storage, transportation and disposal of certain of our products that are considered hazardous materials; require us to advertise and promote our drugs and devices in accordance with applicable fda requirements; require registration with the fda and the dea and various state agencies; require record keeping and documentation of transactions involving drug products; require us to design and operate a system to identify and report suspicious orders of controlled substances to the dea; require us to manage returns of products that have been recalled and subject us to inspection of our recall procedures and activities; and impose reporting requirements if a pharmaceutical, hct/p product or medical device causes serious illness, injury or death. applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations also may require us to meet various standards relating to, among other things, licensure or registration, sales and marketing practices, product integrity and supply tracking to the manufacturer of the product, personnel, privacy and security of health or other personal information, installation, maintenance and repair of equipment, and the importation and exportation of products. our business also is subject to requirements of similar and other foreign governmental laws and regulations affecting our operations abroad. the fda and dea have recently increased their regulatory and enforcement activities. the failure to comply with any of these regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or the imposition of any additional laws and regulations, could materially adversely affect our business. there can be no assurance that current and future government regulations will not adversely affect our business. the costs to us associated with complying with the various applicable statutes and regulations, as they now exist and as they may be modified, could be material. allegations by a governmental body that we have not complied with these laws could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. while we believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable fraud and abuse and other laws and regulations, and believe we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, if it is determined that we have not complied with these laws, we are potentially subject to penalties including warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, mandatory recall of product, seizure of product and injunction, consent decrees and suspension or limitation of product sale and distribution. if we enter into settlement agreements to resolve allegations of non-compliance, we could be required to make settlement payments or be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the loss of licenses. non-compliance with government requirements could adversely affect our ability to participate in federal and state government health care programs and damage our reputation. 27 table of contents if we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to health care fraud or other laws and regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations, which could materially adversely affect our business. certain of our businesses are subject to federal and state (and similar foreign) health care fraud and abuse, referral and reimbursement laws and regulations with respect to their operations. some of these laws, referred to as false claims laws, prohibit the submission or causing the submission of false or fraudulent claims for reimbursement to federal, state and other health care payers and programs. other laws, referred to as anti-kickback laws, prohibit soliciting, offering, receiving or paying remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient or ordering, purchasing, leasing or arranging for or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing, of items or services that are paid for by federal, state and other health care payers and programs. health care fraud measures may implicate, for example, our relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers, our pricing and incentive programs for physician and dental practices, and our dental and physician practice management products that offer billing-related functionality. the fraud and abuse regulations have been subject to varying interpretations, as well as heightened enforcement activity, over the past few years, and significant enforcement activity has been the result of relators, who serve as whistleblowers by filing complaints in the name of the united states (and if applicable, particular states) under federal and state false claims laws. under the federal false claims act relators can be entitled to receive up to 30% of total recoveries. also, violations of the federal false claims act can result in treble damages, and, in accordance with a final rule published by the department of justice on february 3, 2017, which substantially increased the maximum and minimum civil penalties for false claims act violations, the amounts for civil penalties assessed after february 3, 2017, whose associated violations occurred after november 2, 2015, were increased from a minimum per-claim penalty of $10,781 to $10,957, and from a maximum per-claim penalty of $21,563 to $21,916. most states have adopted similar state false claims laws, and these state laws have their own penalties which may be in addition to federal false claims act penalties. the health care reform law significantly strengthened the federal false claims act and the federal anti-kickback law provisions, which could lead to the possibility of increased whistleblower or relator suits, and among other things made clear that a federal anti-kickback law violation can be a basis for federal false claims act liability. the united states government (among others) has expressed concerns about financial relationships between suppliers on the one hand and physicians and dentists on the other. as a result, we regularly review and revise our marketing practices as necessary to facilitate compliance. we also are subject to certain united states and foreign laws and regulations concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act, the german anti-corruption law and other anti-bribery laws, anti-corruption laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records, which have been the focus of increasing enforcement activity globally in recent years. our businesses are generally subject to numerous other laws and regulations that could impact our financial results, including, without limitation, securities, antitrust and marketing laws and regulations. failure to comply with laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. failure to comply with fraud and abuse laws and regulations and other laws and regulations could result in significant civil and criminal penalties and costs, including the loss of licenses and the ability to participate in federal and state health care programs, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. also, these measures may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations or incur substantial defense and settlement expenses. even unsuccessful challenges by regulatory authorities or private relators could result in reputational harm and the incurring of substantial costs. in addition, many of these laws are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, and have been subject to frequent modification and varied interpretation by prosecutorial and regulatory authorities, increasing the risk of non compliance. we may determine to enter into settlements, make payments, agree to consent decrees or enter into other arrangements to resolve such matters. for example, one of our subsidiaries recently resolved an investigation by the federal trade commission related to the manner in which it advertised certain data security features of its dental practice management software, which resulted in a consent order and fine. failure to comply with consent decrees could materially adversely affect our business. 28 table of contents while we believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable fraud and abuse and other laws and regulations, and believe we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, we cannot predict whether changes in applicable law, or interpretation of laws, or changes in our services or marketing practices in response to changes in applicable law or interpretation of laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to the confidentiality of sensitive personal information or standards in electronic health data transmissions, we could be required to make significant changes to our products, or incur substantial fines, penalties or other liabilities. the fda has become increasingly active in addressing the regulation of computer software intended for use in health care settings, and has developed and continues to develop policies on regulating clinical decision support tools and other types of software as medical devices. certain of our businesses involve the development and sale of software and related products to support physician and dental practice management, and it is possible that the fda or foreign government authorities could determine that one or more of our products is a medical device, which could subject us or one or more of our businesses to substantial additional requirements with respect to these products. our businesses that involve physician and dental practice management products include electronic information technology systems that store and process personal health, clinical, financial and other sensitive information of individuals. these information technology systems may be vulnerable to breakdown, wrongful intrusions, data breaches and malicious attack, which could require us to expend significant resources to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns, and could involve claims against us by private parties and/or governmental agencies. for example, we are directly or indirectly subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that protect the privacy and security of such information, such as hipaa. hipaa requires, among other things, the implementation of various recordkeeping, operational, notice and other practices intended to safeguard that information, limit its use to allowed purposes and notify individuals in the event of privacy and security breaches. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to breach of contract claims, substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation. also, evolving laws and regulations in this area could restrict the ability of our customers to obtain, use or disseminate patient information, or could require us to incur significant additional costs to re-design our products in a timely manner to reflect these legal requirements, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. other health information standards, such as regulations under hipaa, establish standards regarding electronic health data transmissions and transaction code set rules for specific electronic transactions, such as transactions involving claims submissions to third party payers. certain of our businesses provide electronic practice management products that must meet these requirements. failure to abide by electronic health data transmission standards could expose us to breach of contract claims, substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation. in addition, the european parliament and the council of the european union have adopted the gdpr, effective from may 25, 2018, which increases privacy rights for individuals in europe, extends the scope or responsibilities for data controllers and data processors and imposes increased requirements and potential penalties on companies offering goods or services to data subjects or monitoring the behavior of such individuals (including by companies based outside of europe). noncompliance can result in penalties of up to the greater of eur 20 million, or 4% of global company revenues. individual member states may impose additional requirements and penalties as they relate to certain things such as employee personal data. among other things, the gdpr requires with respect to data concerning data subjects, company accountability, consents from data subjects or other acceptable legal basis needed to process the personal data, prompt breach notifications within 72 hours, fairness and transparency in how the personal data is stored, used or otherwise processed, and data integrity and security, and provides rights to data subjects relating to modification, erasure and transporting of the personal data. while we expect to have substantially compliant programs and controls in place to comply with the gdpr requirements, our compliance with the new regulation is likely to impose additional costs on us, and we cannot predict whether the interpretations of the requirements, or changes in our practices in response to new requirements or interpretations of the requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 29 table of contents we also sell products and services that health care providers, such as physicians and dentists, use to store and manage patient medical or dental records. these customers are subject to laws, regulations and industry standards, such as hipaa and the payment card industry data security standards, which require that they protect the privacy and security of those records, and our products may be used as part of these customers' comprehensive data security programs, including in connection with their efforts to comply with applicable privacy and security laws. perceived or actual security vulnerabilities in our products or services, or the perceived or actual failure by us or our customers who use our products to comply with applicable legal or contractual requirements, may not only cause us significant reputational harm, but may also lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies and involve substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses and costs for remediation. in addition, federal initiatives provide a program of incentive payments available to certain health care providers involving the adoption and use of certain electronic health care records systems and processes. the initiatives include providing, among others, physicians and dentists, with financial incentives if they meaningfully use certified ehr systems in accordance with applicable and evolving requirements. in addition, medicare-eligible providers that fail to timely adopt certified ehr systems and meet meaningful use requirements for those systems in accordance with regulatory requirements are to be subject to cumulative medicare reimbursement reductions, which reductions for applicable health professionals (including physicians and dentists) began on january 1, 2015. qualification for the incentive payments requires the use of ehrs that have certain capabilities for meaningful use pursuant to evolving standards adopted by cms and onc. in order to maintain certification of our ehr products, we must satisfy these changing governmental criteria. certain of our businesses involve the manufacture and sale of certified ehr systems and other products linked to incentive programs. cms and onc establish criteria for certified ehr systems and these criteria have been subject to change. in order to maintain certification of our ehr products, we must satisfy these changing governmental criteria. if any of our ehr systems do not meet these standards, yet have been relied upon by health care providers to receive federal incentive payments, as noted above, we are exposed to risk under federal health care fraud and abuse laws, such as the false claims act. for example, on may 31, 2017, the u.s. department of justice announced a $155 million settlement and 5-year corporate integrity agreement involving a vendor of certified ehr systems, based on allegations that the vendor, by misrepresenting capabilities to the certifying body, caused its health care provider customers to submit false medicare and medicaid claims for meaningful use payments in violation of the false claims act. while we believe we are substantially in compliance with such certifications and with applicable fraud and abuse laws and regulations and we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, we cannot predict whether changes in applicable law, or interpretation of laws, or changes in our practices in response to changes in applicable law or interpretation of laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business. moreover, in order to satisfy our customers, our products may need to incorporate increasingly complex reporting functionality. although we believe we are positioned to accomplish this, the effort may involve increased costs, and our failure to implement product modifications, or otherwise satisfy applicable standards, could have a material adverse effect on our business. moreover in order to satisfy our customers, our products may need to incorporate increasingly complex reporting functionality. although we believe we are positioned to accomplish this, the effort may involve increased costs, and our failure to implement product modifications, or otherwise satisfy applicable standards, could have a material adverse effect on our business. on october 6, 2015, cms and onc released comprehensive final rules with respect to the ehr program that, among other things, established the more challenging stage 3 criteria, making certain adjustments to stage 1 and stage 2 standards (e.g., reducing the 2015 reporting period from a full year to 90 days), and finalized 2015 edition health technology (hit) certification criteria (which is now added to the existing 2014 edition hit certification criteria, but not required until 2018). notably, under the new rules, compliance with stage 3 standards is optional for providers in 2017, and would generally be required for all eligible providers (regardless of prior participation in the ehr incentive program) for 2018 reporting periods and subsequently. developers and others involved in the manufacture of ehr program technology will have this interim period to develop and certify products, and work with customers to implement products for the 2018 ehr program period. in connection with the release of the october 6 rules, hhs has also stated it will continue to modify applicable ehr program standards. on november 14, 2016, cms published a final rule that will impact medicare and medicaid ehr incentive programs 30 table of contents through revisions to the objectives and measures for eligible hospitals, critical access hospitals, and dual-eligible hospitals. the use of certified ehr technology will continue as a feature of macra's mips programs, and in connection with this, medicare ehr program payment adjustments to eligible professionals will sunset at the end of 2018 and mips payment adjustments will begin on january 1, 2019. the first performance period for mips began january 1, 2017, and will afford eligible clinicians different reporting options linked to the amount of data reported and the duration of the reporting period, with positive payment adjustments generally linked to more robust reporting. certain of our businesses involve the manufacture and sale of certified ehr systems and other products linked to incentive programs, and therefore we must maintain compliance with, and are affected by, these changing governmental criteria. additionally, as electronic medical devices are increasingly connected to each other and to other technology, the ability of these connected systems safely and effectively to exchange and use exchanged information becomes increasingly important. on september 6, 2017, the fda issued guidance to assist industry in identifying specific considerations related to the ability of electronic medical devices to safely and effectively exchange and use exchanged information. as a medical device manufacturer, we must manage risks including those associated with an electronic interface that is incorporated into a medical device. there may be additional legislative or regulatory initiatives in the future impacting health care. our global operations are subject to inherent risks that could materially adversely affect our business. global operations are subject to risks that may materially adversely affect our business. the risks that our global operations are subject to include, among other things: difficulties and costs relating to staffing and managing foreign operations; difficulties in establishing channels of distribution; fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies; longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions; repatriation of cash from our foreign operations to the united states; regulatory requirements; anti-bribery, anti-corruption and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records; unexpected difficulties in importing or exporting our products; imposition of import/export tariffs, quotas, sanctions or penalties; difficulties and delays inherent in sourcing products and contract manufacturing in foreign markets; limitations on our ability under local laws to protect our intellectual property; unexpected regulatory, legal, economic and political changes in foreign markets; changes in tax regulations that influence purchases of capital equipment; civil disturbances, geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism, war or political or military coups; and public health emergencies. 31 table of contents our expansion through acquisitions and joint ventures involves risks. we have expanded our domestic and international markets in part through acquisitions and joint ventures, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions and enter into joint ventures in the future. such transactions involve numerous risks, including possible material adverse effects on our financial results or the market price of our common stock. some of our acquisitions and future acquisitions may also give rise to an obligation by us to make contingent payments or to satisfy certain repurchase obligations, which payments could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. in addition, integrating acquired businesses and joint ventures: may result in a loss of customers or product lines of the acquired businesses or joint ventures; requires significant management attention; may place significant demands on our operations, information systems and financial resources; and results in additional acquisition and integration expenses. there can be no assurance that our future acquisitions or joint ventures will be successful. our ability to continue to successfully effect acquisitions and joint ventures will depend upon the following: the availability of suitable acquisition or joint venture candidates at acceptable prices; our ability to consummate such transactions, which could potentially be prohibited due to u.s. or foreign antitrust regulations; the availability of financing on acceptable terms, in the case of non-stock transactions; the liquidity of our investments and our ability to raise capital could be affected by the financial credit markets; and our ability to retain, recruit and incentivize the management of the companies we acquire. our acquisitions may not result in the benefits and revenue growth we expect. we are in the process of integrating companies that we acquired and including the operations, services, products and personnel of each company within our management policies, procedures and strategies. we cannot be sure that we will achieve the benefits of revenue growth that we expect from these acquisitions or that we will not incur unforeseen additional costs or expenses in connection with these acquisitions. to effectively manage our expected future growth, we must continue to manage successfully our integration of these companies and continue to improve our operational systems, internal procedures, working capital management and financial and operational controls. if we fail in any of these areas, our business could be materially adversely affected. we face inherent risk of exposure to product liability, intellectual property infringement and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury. our business involves a risk of product liability, intellectual property infringement and other claims in the ordinary course of business, and from time to time we are named as a defendant in cases as a result of our distribution of products. additionally, we own interests in companies that manufacture certain dental products. as a result, we are subject to the potential risk of product liability, intellectual property infringement or other claims relating to the manufacture and distribution of products by those entities. additionally, as our private-label business continues to grow, purchasers of such products may increasingly seek recourse directly from us, rather than the ultimate product manufacturer, for product-related claims. another potential risk we face in the distribution of our products is liability resulting from counterfeit or tainted products infiltrating the supply chain. in addition, some of the products that we transport and sell are considered hazardous materials. the improper handling of such materials or accidents involving the transportation of such materials could subject us to liability. in addition, our reputation could be adversely affected by negative publicity surrounding such events regardless of whether or not claims against us are successful. we have various insurance policies, including product liability insurance, covering risks and in amounts that we consider adequate. in many cases in which we have been sued in 32 table of contents connection with products manufactured by others, the manufacturer of the product provides us with indemnification. there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost, or that indemnification agreements will provide us with adequate protection. a successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance or not covered by indemnification agreements, or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us, could have a material adverse effect on our business and our reputation. our technology segment depends upon continued software and e-services product development, technical support and successful marketing. competition among companies supplying practice management software and/or e-services is intense and increasing. our future sales of practice management software and e-services will depend on, among other factors: the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs; our ability to enhance our products and services to satisfy customer requirements; and our ability to provide ongoing technical support. we cannot be sure that we will be successful in introducing and marketing new software, software enhancements or e-services, or that such software, software enhancements and e-services will be released on time or accepted by the market. our software and applicable e-services products, like software products generally, may contain undetected errors or bugs when introduced or as new versions are released. we cannot be sure that future problems with post-release software errors or bugs will not occur. any such defective software may result in increased expenses related to the software and could adversely affect our relationships with the customers using such software as well as our reputation. we do not have any patents on our software or e-services, and rely upon copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as contractual and common law protections. we cannot provide assurance that such legal protections will be available or enforceable to protect our software or e-services products. we rely on third parties for certain technologically advanced products. some of our products contain technologically advanced components, including software, that are developed by third parties. we may not be able to replace the functions provided by these third-party components or products if they become obsolete, defective or incompatible with future versions of our products or with our services and solutions, or if they are not adequately maintained or updated. in addition, third-party suppliers of software or other intellectual property assets could be unwilling to permit us to use their intellectual property and this could impede or disrupt use of their products or services by us and our customers. alternate sources for the technology currently provided by third parties to us may not be available to us in a timely manner, and may not provide us with the same functions as currently provided to us or may be more expensive than products we currently use or sell. further, the risk of intellectual property infringement claims against us may increase as we expand our business to include more technologically advanced products and continue to incorporate third party components, software and/or other intellectual property into the products we sell. also, individuals and firms have purchased intellectual property assets in order to assert claims of infringement against technology providers and customers that use such technology. any infringement action brought against us or our customers could be costly to defend or lead to an expensive settlement or judgment against us. the risks described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results and our reputation. 33 table of contents we may experience competition from third-party online commerce sites. traditional health care supply and distribution relationships are being challenged by electronic online commerce solutions. the continued advancement of online commerce by third parties will require us to cost-effectively adapt to changing technologies, to enhance existing services and to differentiate our business (including with additional value-added services) to address changing demands of consumers and our customers on a timely basis. the emergence of such potential competition and our inability to anticipate and effectively respond to changes on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business. security risks generally associated with our information systems and our technology products and services could materially adversely affect our business, and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if our information systems (or third-party systems we rely on) are interrupted, damaged by unforeseen events, are subject to cyberattacks or fail for any extended period of time. we rely on information systems (is) in our business to obtain, rapidly process, analyze, manage and store data to, among other things: maintain and manage worldwide systems to facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution centers; receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis; manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; process payments to suppliers; and provide products and services that maintain certain of our customers' electronic medical or dental records (including protected health information of their patients). information security risks have generally increased in recent years, and a cyberattack that bypasses our is security systems causing an is security breach may lead to a material disruption of our is business systems and/or the loss of business information resulting in a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we develop products and provide services to our customers that are technology-based, and a cyberattack that bypasses the is security systems of our products or services causing a security breach and/or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products or services could also cause significant reputational harm, and actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies. in particular, certain of our practice management products and services purchased by health care providers, such as physicians and dentists, are used to store and manage patient medical or dental records. these customers are subject to laws and regulations, such as hipaa, which require that they protect the privacy and security of those records, and our products may be used as part of these customers' comprehensive data security programs, including in connection with their efforts to comply with applicable privacy and security laws. perceived or actual security vulnerabilities in our products or services, or the perceived or actual failure by us or our customers who use our products to comply with applicable legal requirements, may not only cause us significant reputational harm, but may also lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies and involve fines and penalties, costs for remediation, and substantial defense and settlement expenses. regarding direct customer claims, although our customer license agreements typically contain provisions that seek to eliminate or limit our exposure to such liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenges, or that we will be able to obtain such provisions in all cases. in addition, our information systems also utilize certain third party service organizations that manage a portion of our information systems, and our business may be materially adversely affected if these third party service organizations are subject to an is security breach. additionally, legislative or regulatory action related to cybersecurity may increase our costs to develop or implement new technology products and services. 34 table of contents risks associated with these and other is security breaches may include, among other things: future results could be materially adversely affected due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property; operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of information systems and subsequent clean-up and mitigation activities; procedures and safeguards must continually evolve to meet new is challenges, and enhancing protections, and conducting investigations and remediation, may impose additional costs on us; we may incur claims, fines and penalties, and costs for remediation, or substantial defense and settlement expenses; and negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our customers, partners or industry peers. we also deliver internet-based services and, accordingly, depend on our ability and the ability of our customers to access the internet. in the event of any difficulties, outages and delays by internet service providers, we may be impeded from providing such services, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and our reputation. we have various insurance policies, including cyber liability insurance, covering risks and in amounts that we consider adequate. there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost. successful claims for misappropriation or release of confidential or personal data brought against us in excess of available insurance or fines or other penalties assessed or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us could have a material adverse effect on our business and our reputation. certain provisions in our governing documents and other documents to which we are a party may discourage third-party offers to acquire us that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price of their shares. the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, may discourage acquisition bids and may limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions, among other things: require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 60% of the shares of common stock entitled to vote to approve a merger, consolidation, or a sale, lease, transfer or exchange of all or substantially all of our assets; and require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our common stock entitled to vote to (i) remove a director; and (ii) to amend or repeal our by-laws, with certain limited exceptions. in addition, our 2013 stock incentive plan and 2015 non-employee director stock incentive plan provide for accelerated vesting of stock options upon a change in control. these incentive plans also authorize the committee under the plans to provide for accelerated vesting of other types of equity awards in connection with a change in control at grant or thereafter, and certain other awards made under these incentive plans (such as restricted stock/unit awards) accelerate upon a change in control or upon certain termination events in connection with a change in control. further, certain agreements between us and our executive officers provide for increased severance payments and certain benefits if those executive officers are terminated without cause by us or if they terminate for good reason, in each case within two years after a change in control or within ninety days prior to the effective date of the change in control or after the first public announcement of the pendency of the change in control. 35 table of contents tax legislation could materially adversely affect our financial results and tax liabilities. we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the united states federal, state and local governments, as well as foreign jurisdictions. from time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could materially adversely affect our tax positions. there can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not be materially adversely affected by legislation resulting from these initiatives. on december 22, 2017, the president signed the tax cuts and jobs act into law, which contains a broad range of tax reform provisions that impact the individual and corporate tax rates, international tax provisions, income tax add-back provisions and deductions. we are still analyzing the complex new law to determine its impact. in addition, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. although we believe that our historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk ......................................................................................................... 75 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates as measured against the u.s. dollar and each other, and changes to the credit markets. we attempt to minimize these risks by primarily using foreign currency forward contracts and by maintaining counter-party credit limits. these hedging activities provide only limited protection against currency exchange and credit risks. factors that could influence the effectiveness of our hedging programs include currency markets and availability of hedging instruments and liquidity of the credit markets. all foreign currency forward contracts that we enter into are components of hedging programs and are entered into for the sole purpose of hedging an existing or anticipated currency exposure. we do not enter into such contracts for speculative purposes and we manage our credit risks by diversifying our investments, maintaining a strong balance sheet and having multiple sources of capital. foreign currency agreements the value of certain foreign currencies as compared to the u.s. dollar and the value of certain underlying functional currencies of the company, including its foreign subsidiaries, may affect our financial results. fluctuations in exchange rates may positively or negatively affect our revenues, gross margins, operating expenses and retained earnings, all of which are expressed in u.s. dollars. where we deem it prudent, we engage in hedging programs using primarily foreign currency forward contracts aimed at limiting the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on earnings. we purchase short-term (i.e., 18 months or less) foreign currency forward contracts to protect against currency exchange risks associated with intercompany loans due from our international subsidiaries and the payment of merchandise purchases to foreign suppliers. we do not hedge the translation of foreign currency profits into u.s. dollars, as we regard this as an accounting exposure, not an economic exposure. a hypothetical 5% change in the average value of the u.s. dollar in 2017 compared to foreign currencies would have changed our 2017 reported net income attributable to henry schein, inc. by approximately $7.3 million. as of december 30, 2017, we had forward foreign currency exchange agreements, which expire through june 27, 2018, which include a mark-to-market loss of $1.0 million as determined by quoted market prices. as of december 30, 2017, henry schein, inc. had euro to brazilian real (brl) cross currency swap contracts notionally totaling an amount of 78 million, with a reported fair value of these contracts as a net asset of $10.7 million. a 5% increase in the value of the euro to the brl from december 30, 2017, with all other variables held constant, would have had a favorable effect on the fair value of these swap contracts by increasing the value of these instruments by $4.8 million. short-term investments we limit our credit risk with respect to our cash equivalents, short-term investments and derivative instruments, by monitoring the credit worthiness of the financial institutions who are the counter-parties to such financial instruments. as a risk management policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure by diversifying and utilizing numerous investment grade counter-parties. variable interest rate debt as of december 30, 2017, we had variable interest rate exposure for certain of our revolving credit facilities and our u.s. trade accounts receivable securitization. our revolving credit facility which we entered into on april 18, 2017 and expires in april 2022, has an interest rate that is based on the u.s. dollar libor plus a spread based on our leverage ratio at the end of each financial reporting quarter. as of december 30, 2017, there was $320.0 million outstanding under this revolving credit facility. during the year ended december 30, 2017, the average outstanding balance under this revolving credit facility was approximately $324.6 million. based upon our average outstanding balance for this revolving credit facility, for each hypothetical increase of 25 basis points, our interest expense thereunder would have increased by $0.8 million. our u.s trade accounts receivable securitization, which we entered into on april 17, 2013 and which expires on april 29, 2020, has an interest rate that is based upon the asset-backed commercial paper rate of 153 basis points plus 75 basis points. as of december 30, 2017, we had an outstanding balance of $350.0 million under this securitization facility. during the year ended december 30, 2017, the average outstanding balance under this securitization facility was approximately $349.6 million. based upon our average outstanding balance for this 75 table of contents securitization facility, for each hypothetical increase of 25 basis points, our interest expense thereunder would have increased by $0.9 million. 76 table of contentsrisk factors ......................................................................................................................................................................... 21 risk factors for a discussion of additional burdens, risks and regulatory developments that may affect our results of operations and financial condition. proprietary rights we hold trademarks relating to the henry schein name and logo, as well as certain other trademarks. we intend to protect our trademarks to the fullest extent practicable. 16 table of contents employees we employ more than 18,000 full-time equivalent employees, including approximately 1,900 telesales representatives, over 3,600 field sales consultants, including equipment sales specialists, 4,000 warehouse employees, 500 computer programmers and technicians, 1,000 management employees and 7,800 office, clerical and administrative employees. approximately 1,930, or 11%, of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. we believe that our relations with our employees are excellent. available information we make available free of charge through our internet website, www.henryschein.com , our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, statements of beneficial ownership of securities on forms 3, 4 and 5 and amendments to these reports and statements filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) and section 16 of the securities exchange act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the united states securities and exchange commission, or sec. our principal executive offices are located at 135 duryea road, melville, new york 11747, and our telephone number is (631) 843-5500. unless the context specifically requires otherwise, the terms the company, henry schein, we, us and our mean henry schein, inc., a delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. 17 table of contents executive officers of the registrant the following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers: name age position stanley m. bergman ..................................................................................................................................................... 69 chairman, chief executive officer, director gerald a. benjamin ..................................................................................................................................................... 66 executive vice president, chief administrative officer, director james p. breslawski ..................................................................................................................................................... 65 vice chairman, president, director michael s. ettinger ...................................................................................................................................................... 57 senior vice president, corporate &amp; legal affairs and chief of staff, secretary mark e. mlotek ........................................................................................................................................................... 63 executive vice president, chief strategic officer, director steven paladino ........................................................................................................................................................... 61 executive vice president, chief financial officer, director walter siegel ............................................................................................................................................................... 59 senior vice president and general counsel stanley m. bergman has been our chairman and chief executive officer since 1989 and a director since 1982. mr. bergman held the position of president from 1989 to 2005. mr. bergman held the position of executive vice president from 1985 to 1989 and vice president of finance and administration from 1980 to 1985. gerald a. benjamin has been our executive vice president and chief administrative officer since 2000 and a director since 1994. prior to holding his current position, mr. benjamin was senior vice president of administration and customer satisfaction since 1993. mr. benjamin was vice president of distribution operations from 1990 to 1992 and director of materials management from 1988 to 1990. before joining us in 1988, mr. benjamin was employed for 12 years at est e lauder, inc., in various management positions where his last position was director of materials planning and control. james p. breslawski has been our vice chairman since 2018, president since 2005 and a director since 1992. mr. breslawski was the chief executive officer of our henry schein global dental group from 2005 to 2018. mr. breslawski held the position of executive vice president and president of u.s. dental from 1990 to 2005, with primary responsibility for the north american dental group. between 1980 and 1990, mr. breslawski held various positions with us, including chief financial officer, vice president of finance and administration and corporate controller. michael s. ettinger has been senior vice president, corporate &amp; legal affairs, chief of staff and secretary since 2015. prior to his current position, mr. ettinger served as senior vice president, corporate &amp; legal affairs and secretary from 2013 to 2015, corporate senior vice president, general counsel &amp; secretary from 2006 to 2013, vice president, general counsel and secretary from 2000 to 2006, vice president and associate general counsel from 1998 to 2000 and associate general counsel from 1994 to 1998. before joining us, mr. ettinger served as a senior associate with bower &amp; gardner and as a member of the tax department at arthur andersen. mark e. mlotek has been executive vice president and chief strategic officer since 2012. mr. mlotek was senior vice president and subsequently executive vice president of the corporate business development group between 2000 and 2012. prior to that, mr. mlotek was vice president, general counsel and secretary from 1994 to 1999 and became a director in 1995. prior to joining us, mr. mlotek was a partner in the law firm of proskauer rose llp, counsel to us, specializing in mergers and acquisitions, corporate reorganizations and tax law from 1989 to 1994. steven paladino has been our executive vice president and chief financial officer since 2000. prior to holding his current position, mr. paladino was senior vice president and chief financial officer from 1993 to 2000 and has been a director since 1992. from 1990 to 1992, mr. paladino served as vice president and treasurer and from 1987 to 1990 served as corporate controller. before joining us, mr. paladino was employed in public accounting for seven years, most recently with the international accounting firm of bdo usa, llp. mr. paladino is a certified public accountant. 18 table of contents walter siegel has been senior vice president and general counsel since 2013. prior to joining us, mr. siegel was employed with standard microsystems corporation, a publicly traded global semiconductor company from 2005 to 2012, holding positions of increasing responsibility, most recently as senior vice president, general counsel and secretary. other executive management the following table sets forth certain information regarding other executive management: name age position david brous .................................................................................................................................................................... 50 president, strategic business units group and asia pacific &amp; brazil dental brad connett ................................................................................................................................................................... 60 president, u.s. medical group james a. harding ........................................................................................................................................................... 63 chief executive officer, henry schein one jonathan koch ............................................................................................................................................................... 44 senior vice president and chief executive officer, global dental group lorelei mcglynn ............................................................................................................................................................ 55 senior vice president, global human resources and financial operations james mullins ................................................................................................................................................................. 54 senior vice president, global services christopher pendergast ..................................................................................................................................................... 56 senior vice president and chief technology officer michael racioppi ............................................................................................................................................................ 64 senior vice president, chief merchandising officer david brous has been our president, strategic business units group and asia pacific &amp; brazil dental since 2019. mr. brous joined us in 2002 and has held many positions within the organization, including leading and managing the corporate business development group and the international healthcare group (managing our international animal health business, international medical business and australia / new zealand dental business). brad connett has been president of our u.s. medical group since 2018. mr. connett joined us in 1997 and has held a number of increasingly responsible positions at the company. throughout his career, he has received numerous industry honors, including the john f. sasen leadership award from the health industry distributors association (hida), in recognition of his service to the industry, and induction into the medical distribution hall of fame by repertoire magazine. james a. harding has been our chief executive officer of henry schein one since 2018. prior to his current position, mr. harding was our corporate chief technology officer from 2005 to 2018, and senior vice president and chief information officer from 2001 to 2005. prior to joining us, mr. harding held the positions of chief information officer at olsten corporation from 1997 to 2000, and roles of increasing responsibility at mobil oil corporation from 1977 to 1996, including chief information officer for the americas, marketing and refining, and head of global architecture. jonathan koch has been our senior vice president and chief executive officer of our global dental group since 2018. prior to joining us, for the years 2006 to 2018, mr. koch was a senior executive at covance, the drug development services business of laboratory corporation of america. in his last role at covance, mr. koch was the executive vice president and group president of covance clinical development &amp; commercialization services. prior to that, mr. koch was executive vice president and group president of covance research and development laboratories from 2015 to 2017. mr. koch was also president of covance central laboratory services from 2010 to 2015, and vice president at covance, with various responsibilities, from 2006 to 2010. prior to covance, mr. koch held senior leadership roles of increasing responsibility while employed with charles river laboratories from 1998 to 2006. lorelei mcglynn has served as senior vice president, global human resources and financial operations since 2013. since joining us in 1999, ms. mcglynn has served as vice president, global human resources and financial operations from 2008 to 2013, chief financial officer, international group and vice president of global financial operations from 2002 to 2008 and vice president, finance, north america from 1999 to 2002. prior to joining us, ms. mcglynn served as assistant vice president of finance at adecco corporation. 19 table of contents james mullins has served as our senior vice president of global services since 2018. mr. mullins joined us in 1988 and has held a number of key positions with increasing responsibility, including global chief customer service officer. christopher pendergast has been our senior vice president and chief technology officer since 2018. prior to joining us, mr. pendergast was the employed by vsp global from 2008 to 2018, most recently as the chief technology officer and chief information officer. prior to vsp global, mr. pendergast served in roles of increasing responsibility at natural organics, inc., from 2006 to 2008, ideasphere inc./twinlab corporation from 2000 to 2006, ibm corporation from 1987 to 1994 and 1998 to 2000 and rohm and haas from 1994 to 1998. michael racioppi has been our senior vice president, chief merchandising officer since 2008. prior to holding his current position, mr. racioppi was president of the medical division from 2000 to 2008 and interim president from 1999 to 2000, and corporate vice president from 1994 to 2008, with primary responsibility for the medical group, marketing and merchandising departments. mr. racioppi served as senior director, corporate merchandising from 1992 to 1994. before joining us in 1992, mr. racioppi was employed by ketchum distributors, inc. as the vice president of purchasing and marketing. he currently serves on the board of national distribution and contracting and previously served on the board of health distribution management association and health industry distributors association (hida). 20 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition and/or the trading price of our common stock. although it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties, they may include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider not to be material to our operations. you should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all risks and uncertainties. the order in which these factors appear should not be construed to indicate their relative importance or priority. the health care products distribution industry is highly competitive and consolidating, and we may not be able to compete successfully. we compete with numerous companies, including several major manufacturers and distributors. some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, which could allow them to compete more successfully. most of our products are available from several sources and our customers tend to have relationships with several distributors. competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market particular products, which we would then be unable to market. manufacturers also could increase their efforts to sell directly to end-users and thereby eliminate or reduce our role and the roles of other distributors. industry consolidation among health care product distributors, price competition, the unavailability of products, whether due to our inability to gain access to products or to interruptions in supply from manufacturers, or the emergence of new competitors, also could increase competition. there has also been increasing consolidation among manufacturers of health care products which could have a material adverse effect on our margins and product availability. additionally, in this competitive market, some of our contracts contain minimum purchase commitments. we could be subject to charges and financial losses in the event we fail to satisfy minimum purchase commitments. in the future, we may be unable to compete successfully and competitive pressures may reduce our revenues and profitability. because substantially all of the products that we distribute are not manufactured by us, we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture and supply of substantially all of our products. we obtain substantially all of our products from third parties. generally, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to supply products to us. therefore, suppliers may not provide the products we need in the quantities we request. while there is generally more than one source of supply for most of the categories of products we sell, some key suppliers, in the aggregate, supply a significant portion of the products we sell. additionally, because we generally do not control the actual production of the products we sell, we may be subject to delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions outside of our control, including the failure to comply with applicable government requirements. the failure of manufacturers of products regulated by the fda or other governmental agencies to meet these requirements could result in product recall, cessation of sales or other market disruptions. in the event that any of our third-party suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to continue to provide the products in our required volumes, we would need to identify and obtain acceptable replacement sources on a timely basis. there is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain such alternative sources of supply on a timely basis, if at all. an extended interruption in the supply of our products, especially any high sales volume product, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, which most likely would adversely affect the value of our common stock. our revenues and profitability depend on our relationships with capable sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers of the products that we distribute. our future revenues and profitability depend on our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers. if we fail to maintain our existing relationships with such persons or fail to acquire relationships with such key persons in the future, our business may be materially adversely affected. 21 table of contents our future success is substantially dependent upon our senior management. our future success is substantially dependent upon the efforts and abilities of members of our existing senior management, particularly stanley m. bergman, chairman and chief executive officer. the loss of the services of mr. bergman could have a material adverse effect on our business. we have an employment agreement with mr. bergman. we do not currently have key man life insurance policies on any of our employees. competition for senior management is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel. we experience fluctuations in quarterly earnings. as a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. our business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly fluctuations. revenues and profitability generally have been higher in the third and fourth quarters due to the timing of sales of seasonal products (including influenza vaccine, equipment and software products), purchasing patterns of office-based health care practitioners and year-end promotions. revenues and profitability generally have been lower in the first quarter, primarily due to increased sales in the prior two quarters. we expect our historical seasonality of sales to continue in the foreseeable future. quarterly results may also be materially adversely affected by a variety of other factors, including: timing and amount of sales and marketing expenditures; timing of pricing changes offered by our suppliers; timing of the introduction of new products and services by our suppliers; timing of the release of upgrades and enhancements to our technology-related products and services; changes in or availability of supplier contracts or rebate programs; supplier rebates based upon attaining certain growth goals; changes in the way suppliers introduce or deliver products to market; costs of developing new applications and services; our ability to correctly identify customer needs and preferences and predict future needs and preferences; uncertainties regarding potential significant breaches of data security or disruptions of our information technology systems; unexpected regulatory actions, or government regulation generally; exclusivity requirements with certain suppliers, which may prohibit us from distributing competitive products manufactured by other suppliers; loss of sales representatives; costs related to acquisitions and/or integrations of technologies or businesses; costs associated with our self-insured medical and dental insurance programs; general market and economic conditions, as well as those specific to the health care industry and related industries; our success in establishing or maintaining business relationships; unexpected difficulties in developing and manufacturing products; product demand and availability, or product recalls by manufacturers; 22 table of contents exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury; increases in shipping costs or service issues with our third-party shippers; fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies; restructuring costs; the adoption or repeal of legislation; changes in accounting principles; and litigation or regulatory judgments, expenses or settlements. any change in one or more of these or other factors could cause our annual or quarterly financial results to fluctuate. if our financial results do not meet market expectations, our stock price may decline. expansion of group purchasing organizations ( gpo ) or provider networks and the multi-tiered costing structure may place us at a competitive disadvantage. the medical products industry is subject to a multi-tiered costing structure, which can vary by manufacturer and/or product. under this structure, certain institutions can obtain more favorable prices for medical products than we are able to obtain. the multi-tiered costing structure continues to expand as many large integrated health care providers and others with significant purchasing power, such as gpos, demand more favorable pricing terms. additionally, the formation of provider networks and gpos may shift purchasing decisions to entities or persons with whom we do not have a historical relationship. this may threaten our ability to compete effectively, which could in turn negatively impact our financial results. although we are seeking to obtain similar terms from manufacturers to obtain access to lower prices demanded by gpo contracts or other contracts, and to develop relationships with provider networks and new gpos, we cannot assure that such terms will be obtained or contracts will be executed. increases in shipping costs or service issues with our third-party shippers could harm our business. shipping is a significant expense in the operation of our business. we ship almost all of our orders through third-party delivery services, and typically bear the cost of shipment. accordingly, any significant increase in shipping rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. similarly, strikes or other service interruptions by those shippers could cause our operating expenses to rise and materially adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis. uncertain global macro-economic and political conditions could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. uncertain global macro-economic and political conditions that affect the economy and the economic outlook of the united states, europe and other parts of the world could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. these uncertainties, include, among other things: the united kingdom's vote to leave the european union (generally referred to as brexit) and any other similar referenda or actions by other european union member countries (during 2018, approximately 7% of our consolidated net sales were invoiced to customers in the united kingdom and approximately 25% of our consolidated net sales were invoiced to customers in europe overall, including the u.k.); election results; changes to laws and policies governing foreign trade (including, without limitation, north american free trade agreement (nafta) and other international trade agreements); 23 table of contents greater restrictions on imports and exports; changes in laws and policies governing health care; tariffs and sanctions; sovereign debt levels; the inability of political institutions to effectively resolve actual or perceived economic, currency or budgetary crises or issues; consumer confidence; unemployment levels (and a corresponding increase in the uninsured and underinsured population); changes in regulatory and tax regulations; including without limitation, the tax act; increases in interest rates; availability of capital; increases in fuel and energy costs; the effect of inflation on our ability to procure products and our ability to increase prices over time; changes in tax rates and the availability of certain tax deductions; increases in health care costs; the threat or outbreak of war, terrorism or public unrest; and changes in laws and policies governing manufacturing, development and investment in territories and countries where we do business. additionally, changes in government, government debt and/or budget crises may lead to reductions in government spending in certain countries, which could reduce overall health care spending, and/or higher income or corporate taxes, which could depress spending overall. recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending may also cause customers to reduce, modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may cause suppliers to reduce their output or change their terms of sale. we generally sell products to customers with payment terms. if customers' cash flow or operating and financial performance deteriorate, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment to us. likewise, for similar reasons suppliers may restrict credit or impose different payment terms. any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for our products and/or services or any demands by suppliers for different payment terms may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. disruptions in the financial markets may materially adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us. our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. disruptions in the financial markets may materially adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. a variety of factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including, but not limited to: 24 table of contents the publication of earnings estimates or other research reports and speculation in the press or investment community; changes in our industry and competitors; changes in government or legislation; our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and prospects; stock repurchases; any future issuances of our common stock, which may include primary offerings for cash, stock splits, issuances in connection with business acquisitions, issuances of restricted stock/units and the grant or exercise of stock options from time to time; general market and economic conditions; and any outbreak or escalation of hostilities in areas where we do business. in addition, the nasdaq stock market can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies listed on nasdaq. broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies. this type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. the health care industry is experiencing changes that could materially adversely affect our business. the health care industry is highly regulated and subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. in recent years, the health care industry has undergone, and is in the process of undergoing, significant changes driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including, among other things: trends toward managed care; consolidation of health care distribution companies; consolidation of health care manufacturers; collective purchasing arrangements and consolidation among office-based health care practitioners; and changes in reimbursements to customers, as well as growing enforcement activities (and related monetary recoveries) by governmental officials. both our profitability and the profitability of our customers may be materially adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services, changes to the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined. if we are unable to react effectively to these and other changes in the health care industry, our financial results could be materially adversely affected. the implementation of the health care reform law could materially adversely affect our business. the health care reform law increased federal oversight of private health insurance plans and included a number of provisions designed to reduce medicare expenditures and the cost of health care generally, to reduce fraud and abuse, and to provide access to increased health coverage. the health care reform law contains many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and to reduce costs of medicare and medicaid, including imposing a 2.3% excise tax on domestic sales of many medical devices by manufacturers and importers that began in 2013, and a fee on branded prescription drugs and biologics that was implemented in 2011, both of which may adversely affect sales and cost of goods sold. however, with respect to the medical device excise tax, a two-year moratorium was imposed under the consolidated appropriations act, 2016, suspending the imposition of the tax on device sales during the period beginning january 1, 2016 and ending on december 31, 2017, and on january 22, 2018 an additional two-year moratorium was imposed under public law no. 115-120, suspending the imposition of the tax on device sales during the period beginning january 1, 2018 and ending on december 31, 2019. the health care reform law has also materially expanded the number of individuals in the united states with health insurance. 25 table of contents the health care reform law has faced ongoing legal challenges, including litigation seeking to invalidate some of or all of the law or the manner in which it has been implemented. in addition, the president is seeking to repeal and replace the health care reform law. repeal and replace legislation has been passed in the house of representatives, but did not obtain the necessary votes in the senate. subsequently, the president has affirmed his intention to repeal and replace the health care reform law and has taken a number of administrative actions to materially weaken it, including without limitation, by permitting the use of less robust plans with lower coverage and eliminating premium support for insurers providing policies under the health care reform law. on december 22, 2017, the president signed into law the tax act, which contains a broad range of tax reform provisions that impact the individual and corporate tax rates, international tax provisions, income tax add-back provisions and deductions and which also repealed the individual mandate of the health care reform law. further, in december 2018, a texas federal court struck down the entire health care reform law, a ruling which is being appealed, and, if upheld, could have a significant impact on the u.s. healthcare industry. the uncertain status of the health care reform law affects our ability to plan. the implementation of the reporting and disclosure obligations of the physician payment sunshine act provisions of the health care reform law could adversely affect our business. a health care reform law provision, generally referred to as the physician payment sunshine act, or open payments program, imposes annual reporting and disclosure requirements for drug and device manufacturers with regard to payments or other transfers of value made to covered recipients (including physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals), and for such manufacturers and for group purchasing organizations, with regard to certain ownership interests held by physicians in the reporting entity. cms publishes information from these reports on a publicly available website, including amounts transferred and physician, dentist and teaching hospital identities. effective january 1, 2022, transfers of value to physician assistants, nurse practitioners or clinical nurse specialists, certified registered nurse anesthetists, and certified nurse-midwives must also be reported. under the physician payment sunshine act we are required to collect and report detailed information regarding certain financial relationships we have with covered recipients such as physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals . we believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable physician payment sunshine act requirements. the physician payment sunshine act pre-empts similar state reporting laws, although we or our subsidiaries may also be required to report under certain state transparency laws that address circumstances not covered by the physician payment sunshine act, and some of these state laws, as well as the federal law, can be ambiguous. we are also subject to foreign regulations requiring transparency of certain interactions between suppliers and their customers. while we believe we have substantially compliant programs and controls in place to comply with these reporting requirements, our compliance with these new rules imposes additional costs on us. failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could materially adversely affect our business. our business is subject to requirements under various local, state, federal and international laws and regulations applicable to the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices , and human cells, tissue and cellular and tissue-based products, also known as hct/p products , and animal feed and supplements. among the federal laws with which we must comply are the controlled substances act, the fdc act, as amended, and section 361 of the public health services act. among other things, such laws, and the regulations promulgated thereunder: regulate the storage and distribution, labeling, packaging, handling, reporting, record keeping, introduction, manufacturing and marketing of drugs, hct/p products and medical devices; subject us to inspection by the fda and the dea; regulate the storage, transportation and disposal of certain of our products that are considered hazardous materials; 26 table of contents require us to advertise and promote our drugs and devices in accordance with applicable fda requirements; require registration with the fda and the dea and various state agencies; require record keeping and documentation of transactions involving drug products; require us to design and operate a system to identify and report suspicious orders of controlled substances to the dea; require us to manage returns of products that have been recalled and subject us to inspection of our recall procedures and activities; and impose reporting requirements if a pharmaceutical, hct/p product or medical device causes serious illness, injury or death. applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations also may require us to meet various standards relating to, among other things, licensure or registration, sales and marketing practices, product integrity and supply tracking to the manufacturer of the product, personnel, privacy and security of health or other personal information, installation, maintenance and repair of equipment, and the importation and exportation of products. our business is also subject to requirements of similar and other foreign governmental laws and regulations affecting our operations abroad. the fda and dea have recently increased their regulatory and enforcement activities. the failure to comply with any of these regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or the imposition of any additional laws and regulations, could materially adversely affect our business. there can be no assurance that current and future government regulations will not adversely affect our business. the costs to us associated with complying with the various applicable statutes and regulations, as they now exist and as they may be modified, could be material. allegations by a governmental body that we have not complied with these laws could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. while we believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable laws and regulations, and believe we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, if it is determined that we have not complied with these laws, we are potentially subject to penalties including warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, mandatory recall of product, seizure of product and injunction, consent decrees and suspension or limitation of product sale and distribution. if we enter into settlement agreements to resolve allegations of non-compliance, we could be required to make settlement payments or be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the loss of licenses. non-compliance with government requirements could adversely affect our ability to participate in federal and state government health care programs and damage our reputation. if we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to health care fraud or other laws and regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations, which could materially adversely affect our business. certain of our businesses are subject to federal and state (and similar foreign) health care fraud and abuse, referral and reimbursement laws and regulations with respect to their operations. some of these laws, referred to as false claims laws, prohibit the submission or causing the submission of false or fraudulent claims for reimbursement to federal, state and other health care payers and programs. other laws, referred to as anti-kickback laws, prohibit soliciting, offering, receiving or paying remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient or ordering, purchasing, leasing or arranging for, or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing of, items or services that are paid for by federal, state and other health care payers and programs. health care fraud measures may implicate, for example, our relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers, our pricing and incentive programs for physician and dental practices, and our dental and physician practice management products that offer billing related functionality. the fraud and abuse laws and regulations have been subject to varying interpretations, as well as heightened enforcement activity over the past few years, and significant enforcement activity has been the result of relators who serve as whistleblowers by filing complaints in the name of the united states (and if applicable, particular 27 table of contents states) under federal and state false claims laws, and who may receive up to 30% of total government recoveries. penalties under fraud and abuse laws may be severe. for example, under the federal false claims act, violations may result in treble damages, plus civil penalties of up to $22,363 per claim, as well as exclusion from federal health care programs and criminal penalties. most states have adopted similar state false claims laws, and these state laws have their own penalties which may be in addition to federal false claims act penalties. with respect to anti-kickback laws, violations of, for example, the federal anti-kickback law may result in civil penalties of up to $100,000 for each violation, plus up to three times the total amount of remuneration offered, paid, solicited or received, as well as exclusion from federal health care programs and criminal penalties. notably, effective october 24, 2018, a new federal anti-kickback law (the eliminating kickbacks in recovery act of 2018 ) enacted in connection with broader addiction services legislation, may impose criminal penalties for kickbacks involving clinical laboratory services, regardless of whether the services at issue involved addiction services, and regardless of whether the services were reimbursed by a federal health care program or by a commercial health insurer. furthermore, the health care reform law significantly strengthened the federal false claims act and the federal anti-kickback law provisions, clarifying that a federal anti-kickback law violation can be a basis for federal false claims act liability. with respect to measures of this type, the united states government (among others) has expressed concerns about financial relationships between suppliers on the one hand and physicians and dentists on the other. as a result, we regularly review and revise our marketing practices as necessary to facilitate compliance. we also are subject to certain united states and foreign laws and regulations concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act, german anti-corruption laws and other anti-bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records, which have been the focus of increasing enforcement activity globally in recent years. our businesses are generally subject to numerous other laws and regulations that could impact our financial results, including, without limitation, securities, antitrust and marketing laws and regulations. failure to comply with laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. failure to comply with fraud and abuse laws and regulations and other laws and regulations could result in significant civil and criminal penalties and costs, including the loss of licenses and the ability to participate in federal and state health care programs, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. also, these measures may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations or incur substantial defense and settlement expenses. even unsuccessful challenges by regulatory authorities or private relators could result in reputational harm and the incurring of substantial costs. in addition, many of these laws are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, and have been subject to frequent modification and varied interpretation by prosecutorial and regulatory authorities, increasing the risk of non compliance. we may determine to enter into settlements, make payments, agree to consent decrees or enter into other arrangements to resolve such matters. for example, one of our subsidiaries recently resolved an investigation by the federal trade commission related to the manner in which it advertised certain data security features of its dental practice management software, which resulted in a consent order and fine. failure to comply with consent decrees could materially adversely affect our business. while we believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable fraud and abuse and other laws and regulations, and believe we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, we cannot predict whether changes in applicable law, or interpretation of laws, or changes in our services or marketing practices in response to changes in applicable law or interpretation of laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to the confidentiality of sensitive personal information or standards in electronic health records or transmissions, we could be required to make significant changes to our products, or incur substantial fines, penalties or other liabilities. the fda has become increasingly active in addressing the regulation of computer software intended for use in health care settings. the cures act, signed into law on december 13, 2016, amended the device definition to exclude certain software, including clinical decision support software that meet certain criteria. in december 2017, the fda issued draft guidance documents describing its proposed interpretation of the statutory language regarding 28 table of contents which types of clinical decision support tools and other software are exempt from regulations as medical devices. certain of our businesses involve the development and sale of software and related products to support physician and dental practice management, and it is possible that the fda or foreign government authorities could determine that one or more of our products is a medical device, which could subject us or one or more of our businesses to substantial additional requirements with respect to these products. our businesses that involve physician and dental practice management products include electronic information technology systems that store and process personal health, clinical, financial and other sensitive information of individuals. these information technology systems may be vulnerable to breakdown, wrongful intrusions, data breaches and malicious attack, which could require us to expend significant resources to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns, and could involve claims against us by private parties and/or governmental agencies. for example, we are directly or indirectly subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that protect the privacy and security of such information, such as hipaa. hipaa requires, among other things, the implementation of various recordkeeping, operational, notice and other practices intended to safeguard that information, limit its use to allowed purposes and notify individuals in the event of privacy and security breaches. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to breach of contract claims, substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation. also, evolving laws and regulations in this area could restrict the ability of our customers to obtain, use or disseminate patient information, or could require us to incur significant additional costs to re-design our products in a timely manner to reflect these legal requirements, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. other health information standards, such as regulations under hipaa, establish standards regarding electronic health data transmissions and transaction code set rules for specific electronic transactions, such as transactions involving claims submissions to third party payers. certain of our businesses provide electronic practice management products that must meet these requirements. failure to abide by electronic health data transmission standards could expose us to breach of contract claims, substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation. in addition, the european parliament and the council of the european union have adopted the gdpr, effective from may 25, 2018, which increased privacy rights for individuals in europe, extended the scope or responsibilities for data controllers and data processors and imposes increased requirements and potential penalties on companies offering goods or services to data subjects or monitoring the behavior of such individuals (including by companies based outside of europe). noncompliance can result in penalties of up to the greater of eur 20 million, or 4% of global company revenues. individual member states may impose additional requirements and penalties as they relate to certain things such as employee personal data. among other things, the gdpr requires with respect to data concerning data subjects, company accountability, consents from data subjects or other acceptable legal basis needed to process the personal data, prompt breach notifications within 72 hours, fairness and transparency in how the personal data is stored, used or otherwise processed, and data integrity and security, and provides rights to data subjects relating to modification, erasure and transporting of the personal data. while we expect we have substantially compliant programs and controls in place to comply with the gdpr requirements, our compliance with the new regulation is likely to impose additional costs on us, and we cannot predict whether the interpretations of the requirements, or changes in our practices in response to new requirements or interpretations of the requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business. we also sell products and services that health care providers, such as physicians and dentists, use to store and manage patient medical or dental records. these customers are subject to laws, regulations and industry standards, such as hipaa and the payment card industry data security standards, which require that they protect the privacy and security of those records, and our products may be used as part of these customers' comprehensive data security programs, including in connection with their efforts to comply with applicable privacy and security laws. perceived or actual security vulnerabilities in our products or services, or the perceived or actual failure by us or our customers who use our products to comply with applicable legal or contractual requirements, may not only cause us significant reputational harm, but may also lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies and involve substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses and costs for remediation. 29 table of contents various federal initiatives involve the adoption and use by health care providers of certain electronic health care records systems and processes. the initiatives include, among others, programs that incentivize physicians and dentists, though medicare's mips, to use certified ehr technology in accordance with certain evolving requirements, including regarding quality, promoting interoperability, resource use, clinical practice improvement and improving patient access to health information. qualification for the mips incentive payments requires the use of ehrs that are certified as having certain capabilities designated in standards adopted by cms and onc. these standards have been subject to change. certain of our businesses involve the manufacture and sale of certified ehr systems and other products linked to mips and other incentive programs. in order to maintain certification of our ehr products, we must satisfy the changing governmental standards. if any of our ehr systems do not meet these standards, yet have been relied upon by health care providers to receive federal incentive payments, we are exposed to risk, such as under federal health care fraud and abuse laws, including the false claims act. for example, on may 31, 2017, the u.s. department of justice announced a $155 million settlement and 5-year corporate integrity agreement involving a vendor of certified ehr systems, based on allegations that the vendor, by misrepresenting capabilities to the certifying body, caused its health care provider customers to submit false medicare and medicaid claims for meaningful use incentive payments in violation of the false claims act. while we believe we are substantially in compliance with such certifications and with applicable fraud and abuse laws and regulations and we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, we cannot predict whether changes in applicable law, or interpretation of laws, or changes in our practices in response to changes in applicable law or interpretation of laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business. moreover, in order to satisfy our customers, our products may need to incorporate increasingly complex reporting functionality. although we believe we are positioned to accomplish this, the effort may involve increased costs, and our failure to implement product modifications, or otherwise satisfy applicable standards, could have a material adverse effect on our business. additionally, as electronic medical devices are increasingly connected to each other and to other technology, the ability of these connected systems safely and effectively to exchange and use exchanged information becomes increasingly important. on september 6, 2017, the fda issued guidance to assist industry in identifying specific considerations related to the ability of electronic medical devices to safely and effectively exchange and use exchanged information. as a medical device manufacturer, we must manage risks including those associated with an electronic interface that is incorporated into a medical device. there may be additional legislative or regulatory initiatives in the future impacting health care. our global operations are subject to inherent risks that could materially adversely affect our business. global operations are subject to risks that may materially adversely affect our business. the risks that our global operations are subject to include, among other things: difficulties and costs relating to staffing and managing foreign operations; difficulties in establishing channels of distribution; fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies; longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions; repatriation of cash from our foreign operations to the united states; regulatory requirements; anti-bribery, anti-corruption and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records; unexpected difficulties in importing or exporting our products; 30 table of contents imposition of import/export tariffs, quotas, sanctions or penalties; difficulties and delays inherent in sourcing products and contract manufacturing in foreign markets; limitations on our ability under local laws to protect our intellectual property; unexpected regulatory, legal, economic and political changes in foreign markets; changes in tax regulations that influence purchases of capital equipment; civil disturbances, geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism, war or political or military coups; and public health emergencies. our expansion through acquisitions and joint ventures involves risks. we have expanded our domestic and international markets in part through acquisitions and joint ventures, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions and enter into joint ventures in the future. such transactions involve numerous risks, including possible material adverse effects on our financial results or the market price of our common stock. some of our acquisitions and future acquisitions may also give rise to an obligation by us to make contingent payments or to satisfy certain repurchase obligations, which payments could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. in addition, integrating acquired businesses and joint ventures: may result in a loss of customers or product lines of the acquired businesses or joint ventures; requires significant management attention; may place significant demands on our operations, information systems and financial resources; and results in additional acquisition and integration expenses. there can be no assurance that our future acquisitions or joint ventures will be successful. our ability to continue to successfully effect acquisitions and joint ventures will depend upon the following: the availability of suitable acquisition or joint venture candidates at acceptable prices; our ability to consummate such transactions, which could potentially be prohibited due to u.s. or foreign antitrust regulations; the availability of financing on acceptable terms, in the case of non-stock transactions; the liquidity of our investments and our ability to raise capital could be affected by the financial credit markets; and our ability to retain, recruit and incentivize the management of the companies we acquire. our acquisitions may not result in the benefits and revenue growth we expect. we are in the process of integrating companies that we acquired and including the operations, services, products and personnel of each company within our management policies, procedures and strategies. we cannot be sure that we will achieve the benefits of revenue growth that we expect from these acquisitions or that we will not incur unforeseen additional costs or expenses in connection with these acquisitions. to effectively manage our expected future growth, we must continue to manage successfully our integration of these companies and continue to improve our operational systems, internal procedures, working capital management and financial and operational controls. if we fail in any of these areas, our business could be materially adversely affected. 31 table of contents if the animal health spin-off or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the animal health spin-off are determined to be taxable in whole or in part, we and our stockholders may incur substantial tax liabilities. in connection with the animal health spin-off, we obtained an opinion of outside tax counsel that the animal health spin-off will qualify as a tax-free transaction to us and our stockholders for u.s. federal income tax purposes. we have not sought or obtained a ruling from the internal revenue service ( irs ) on the tax consequences of the transaction. in addition, the tax opinion is subject to customary qualifications and assumptions, and is based on factual representations and undertakings. the failure of any factual representation or assumption to be true, correct and complete in all material respects, or any undertakings to be fully complied with, could affect the validity of the tax opinion. moreover, an opinion of counsel represents counsel's best legal judgment, is not binding on the irs or the courts, and the irs or the courts may not agree with the conclusions set forth in the tax opinion. even if the animal health spin-off otherwise qualified as a tax-free transaction for u.s. federal income tax purposes, it may become taxable to us if certain events occur that affect either us or covetrus. while covetrus has agreed not to take certain actions that could cause the transaction not to qualify as a tax-free transaction and is generally obligated to indemnify us against any tax consequences if it breaches this agreement, the potential tax liabilities could have an adverse effect on us if we were not entitled to indemnification or if the indemnification obligations were not fulfilled. if the animal health spin-off or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the animal health spin-off are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we and/or our u.s. stockholders who participated in the animal health spin-off could incur substantial u.s. federal income tax liabilities. there can be no assurance that we would be entitled to indemnification or that covetrus would have the resources or liquidity required to indemnify us for any such taxable gain. in addition, we and/or our stockholders who participated in the animal health spin-off could incur tax costs in foreign jurisdictions in connection with the transaction, irrespective of whether the animal health spin-off qualifies as tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the animal health spin-off may not achieve the intended benefits and may expose us to potential risks and liabilities. we completed the animal health spin-off on february 7, 2019. we undertook the transaction because, among other things, we believed that our animal health business could achieve greater growth by combining with vets first choice and that we could benefit from greater strategic focus of our resources and management efforts. we may not benefit as expected from the increased focus on our core business, strategic programs and objectives made possible by the animal health spin-off. in addition, the value of the transaction may be reduced by potential liabilities related to post-closing adjustments and indemnities, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we face inherent risk of exposure to product liability, intellectual property infringement and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury. our business involves a risk of product liability, intellectual property infringement and other claims in the ordinary course of business, and from time to time we are named as a defendant in cases as a result of our distribution of products. additionally, we own interests in companies that manufacture certain dental products. as a result, we are subject to the potential risk of product liability, intellectual property infringement or other claims relating to the manufacture and distribution of products by those entities. additionally, as our private-label business continues to grow, purchasers of such products may increasingly seek recourse directly from us, rather than the ultimate product manufacturer, for product-related claims. another potential risk we face in the distribution of our products is liability resulting from counterfeit or tainted products infiltrating the supply chain. in addition, some of the products that we transport and sell are considered hazardous materials. the improper handling of such materials or accidents involving the transportation of such materials could subject us to liability. in addition, our reputation could be adversely affected by negative publicity surrounding such events regardless of whether or not claims against us are successful. we have various insurance policies, including product liability insurance, covering risks and in amounts that we consider adequate. in many cases in which we have been sued in connection with products manufactured by others, the manufacturer of the product provides us with indemnification. there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost, or that indemnification agreements will provide us with 32 table of contents adequate protection. a successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance or not covered by indemnification agreements, or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us, could have a material adverse effect on our business and our reputation. our technology segment depends upon continued software and e-services product development, technical support and successful marketing. competition among companies supplying practice management software and/or e-services is intense and increasing. our future sales of practice management software and e-services will depend on, among other factors: the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs; our ability to enhance our products and services to satisfy customer requirements; and our ability to provide ongoing technical support. we cannot be sure that we will be successful in introducing and marketing new software, software enhancements or e-services, or that such software, software enhancements and e-services will be released on time or accepted by the market. our software and applicable e-services products, like software products generally, may contain undetected errors or bugs when introduced or as new versions are released. we cannot be sure that future problems with post-release software errors or bugs will not occur. any such defective software may result in increased expenses related to the software and could adversely affect our relationships with the customers using such software as well as our reputation. we do not have any patents on our software or e-services, and rely upon copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as contractual and common law protections. we cannot provide assurance that such legal protections will be available or enforceable to protect our software or e-services products. we rely on third parties for certain technologically advanced products. some of our products contain technologically advanced components, including software, that are developed by third parties. we may not be able to replace the functions provided by these third-party components or products if they become obsolete, defective or incompatible with future versions of our products or with our services and solutions, or if they are not adequately maintained or updated. in addition, third-party suppliers of software or other intellectual property assets could be unwilling to permit us to use their intellectual property and this could impede or disrupt use of their products or services by us and our customers. alternate sources for the technology currently provided by third parties to us may not be available to us in a timely manner, and may not provide us with the same functions as currently provided to us or may be more expensive than products we currently use or sell. further, the risk of intellectual property infringement claims against us may increase as we expand our business to include more technologically advanced products and continue to incorporate third party components, software and/or other intellectual property into the products we sell. also, individuals and firms have purchased intellectual property assets in order to assert claims of infringement against technology providers and customers that use such technology. any infringement action brought against us or our customers could be costly to defend or lead to an expensive settlement or judgment against us. the risks described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results and our reputation. we may experience competition from third-party online commerce sites. traditional health care supply and distribution relationships are being challenged by electronic online commerce solutions. the continued advancement of online commerce by third parties will require us to cost-effectively adapt to changing technologies, to enhance existing services and to differentiate our business (including with additional value-added services) to address changing demands of consumers and our customers on a timely basis. the emergence of such potential competition and our inability to anticipate and effectively respond to changes on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business. 33 table of contents security risks generally associated with our information systems and our technology products and services could materially adversely affect our business, and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if our information systems (or third-party systems we rely on) are interrupted, damaged by unforeseen events, are subject to cyberattacks or fail for any extended period of time. we rely on information systems (is) in our business to obtain, rapidly process, analyze, manage and store data to, among other things: maintain and manage worldwide systems to facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution centers; receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis; manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; process payments to suppliers; and provide products and services that maintain certain of our customers' electronic medical or dental records (including protected health information of their patients). information security risks have generally increased in recent years, and a cyberattack that bypasses our is security systems causing an is security breach may lead to a material disruption of our is business systems and/or the loss of business information resulting in a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we develop products and provide services to our customers that are technology-based, and a cyberattack that bypasses the is security systems of our products or services causing a security breach and/or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products or services could also cause significant reputational harm, and actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies. in particular, certain of our practice management products and services purchased by health care providers, such as physicians and dentists, are used to store and manage patient medical or dental records. these customers are subject to laws and regulations, such as hipaa, which require that they protect the privacy and security of those records, and our products may be used as part of these customers' comprehensive data security programs, including in connection with their efforts to comply with applicable privacy and security laws. perceived or actual security vulnerabilities in our products or services, or the perceived or actual failure by us or our customers who use our products to comply with applicable legal requirements, may not only cause us significant reputational harm, but may also lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies and involve fines and penalties, costs for remediation, and substantial defense and settlement expenses. regarding direct customer claims, although our customer license agreements typically contain provisions that seek to eliminate or limit our exposure to such liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenges, or that we will be able to obtain such provisions in all cases. in addition, our information systems also utilize certain third party service organizations that manage a portion of our information systems, and our business may be materially adversely affected if these third party service organizations are subject to an is security breach. additionally, legislative or regulatory action related to cybersecurity may increase our costs to develop or implement new technology products and services. risks associated with these and other is security breaches may include, among other things: future results could be materially adversely affected due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property; operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of information systems and subsequent clean-up and mitigation activities; procedures and safeguards must continually evolve to meet new is challenges, and enhancing protections, and conducting investigations and remediation, may impose additional costs on us; 34 table of contents we may incur claims, fines and penalties, and costs for remediation, or substantial defense and settlement expenses; and negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our customers, partners or industry peers. we also deliver internet-based services and, accordingly, depend on our ability and the ability of our customers to access the internet. in the event of any difficulties, outages and delays by internet service providers, we may be impeded from providing such services, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and our reputation. we have various insurance policies, including cyber liability insurance, covering risks and in amounts that we consider adequate. there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost. successful claims for misappropriation or release of confidential or personal data brought against us in excess of available insurance or fines or other penalties assessed or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us could have a material adverse effect on our business and our reputation. certain provisions in our governing documents and other documents to which we are a party may discourage third-party offers to acquire us that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price of their shares. the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, may discourage acquisition bids and may limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions, among other things: require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 60% of the shares of common stock entitled to vote to approve a merger, consolidation, or a sale, lease, transfer or exchange of all or substantially all of our assets; and require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our common stock entitled to vote to (i) remove a director; and (ii) to amend or repeal our by-laws, with certain limited exceptions. in addition, our 2013 stock incentive plan and 2015 non-employee director stock incentive plan provide for accelerated vesting of stock options upon a change in control. these incentive plans also authorize the committee under the plans to provide for accelerated vesting of other types of equity awards in connection with a change in control at grant or thereafter, and certain other awards made under these incentive plans (such as restricted stock/unit awards) accelerate upon a change in control or upon certain termination events in connection with a change in control. further, certain agreements between us and our executive officers provide for increased severance payments and certain benefits if those executive officers are terminated without cause by us or if they terminate for good reason, in each case within two years after a change in control or within ninety days prior to the effective date of the change in control or after the first public announcement of the pendency of the change in control. tax legislation could materially adversely affect our financial results and tax liabilities. we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the united states federal, state and local governments, as well as foreign jurisdictions. from time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could materially adversely affect our tax positions. there can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not be materially adversely affected by legislation resulting from these initiatives. on december 22, 2017, the president signed the tax act into law, which contains a broad range of tax reform provisions that impact the individual and corporate tax rates, international tax provisions, income tax add-back provisions and deductions. in addition, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. although we believe that our historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. 35 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk ......................................................................................................... 75 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates as measured against the u.s. dollar and each other, and changes to the credit markets. we attempt to minimize these risks by primarily using foreign currency forward contracts and by maintaining counter-party credit limits. these hedging activities provide only limited protection against currency exchange and credit risks. factors that could influence the effectiveness of our hedging programs include currency markets and availability of hedging instruments and liquidity of the credit markets. all foreign currency forward contracts that we enter into are components of hedging programs and are entered into for the sole purpose of hedging an existing or anticipated currency exposure. we do not enter into such contracts for speculative purposes and we manage our credit risks by diversifying our investments, maintaining a strong balance sheet and having multiple sources of capital. foreign currency agreements the value of certain foreign currencies as compared to the u.s. dollar and the value of certain underlying functional currencies of the company, including its foreign subsidiaries, may affect our financial results. fluctuations in exchange rates may positively or negatively affect our revenues, gross margins, operating expenses and retained earnings, all of which are expressed in u.s. dollars. where we deem it prudent, we engage in hedging programs using primarily foreign currency forward contracts aimed at limiting the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on earnings. we purchase short-term (i.e., 18 months or less) foreign currency forward contracts to protect against currency exchange risks associated with intercompany loans due from our international subsidiaries and the payment of merchandise purchases to foreign suppliers. we do not hedge the translation of foreign currency profits into u.s. dollars, as we regard this as an accounting exposure, not an economic exposure. a hypothetical 5% change in the average value of the u.s. dollar in 2018 compared to foreign currencies would have changed our 2018 reported net income attributable to henry schein, inc. by approximately $8.0 million. as of december 29, 2018, we had forward foreign currency exchange agreements, which expire through november 27, 2019, which include a fair value gain of $1.4 million as determined by quoted market prices. as of december 29, 2018, henry schein, inc. had euro to brazilian real (brl) cross currency swap contracts notionally totaling an amount of 94.6 million, with a reported fair value of these contracts as a net asset of $9.4 million. a 5% hypothetical change in the value of the euro to the brl from december 29, 2018, with all other variables held constant, would have had changed the value fair value of these swap contracts by approximately $5.3 million. 75 table of contents short-term investments we limit our credit risk with respect to our cash equivalents, short-term investments and derivative instruments, by monitoring the credit worthiness of the financial institutions who are the counter-parties to such financial instruments. as a risk management policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure by diversifying and utilizing numerous investment grade counter-parties. variable interest rate debt as of december 29, 2018, we had variable interest rate exposure for certain of our revolving credit facilities and our u.s. trade accounts receivable securitization. our revolving credit facility which we entered into on april 18, 2017 and expires on april 18, 2022, has an interest rate that is based on the u.s. dollar libor plus a spread based on our leverage ratio at the end of each financial reporting quarter. as of december 29, 2018, there was $175.0 million outstanding under this revolving credit facility. during the year ended december 29, 2018, the average outstanding balance under this revolving credit facility was approximately $393.8 million. based upon our average outstanding balance for this revolving credit facility, for each hypothetical increase of 25 basis points, our interest expense thereunder would have increased by $1.0 million. our u.s trade accounts receivable securitization, which we entered into on april 17, 2013 and which expires on april 29, 2020, has an interest rate that is based upon the asset-backed commercial paper rate. as of december 29, 2018, the commercial paper rate was 2.66% plus 0.75%, for a combined rate of 3.41%. at december 29, 2018 the outstanding balance was $350.0 million under this securitization facility. during the year ended december 29, 2018, the average outstanding balance under this securitization facility was approximately $349.0 million. based upon our average outstanding balance for this securitization facility, for each hypothetical increase of 25 basis points, our interest expense thereunder would have increased by $0.9 million. 76 table of contentsrisk factors 21 risk factors for a discussion of additional burdens, risks and regulatory developments that may affect our results of operations and financial condition. proprietary rights we hold trademarks relating to the henry schein name and logo, as well as certain other trademarks. we intend to protect our trademarks to the fullest extent practicable. employees we employ more than 19,000 full-time equivalent employees, including approximately 2,000 telesales representatives, over 3,650 field sales consultants, including equipment sales specialists, 3,000 warehouse employees, 800 computer programmers and technicians, 660 management employees and 7,000 office, clerical and administrative employees. approximately 2,160, or 11%, of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. we believe that our relations with our employees are excellent. available information we make available free of charge through our internet website, www.henryschein.com , our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, statements of beneficial ownership of securities on forms 3, 4 and 5 and amendments to these reports and statements filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) and section 16 of the securities exchange act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the united states securities and exchange commission, or sec. our principal executive offices are located at 135 duryea road, melville, new york 11747, and our telephone number is (631) 843-5500. unless the context specifically requires otherwise, the terms the company, henry schein, we, us and our mean henry schein, inc., a delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. 17 table of contents information about our executive officers the following table sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers: name age position stanley m. bergman 70 chairman, chief executive officer, director gerald a. benjamin 67 executive vice president, chief administrative officer, director james p. breslawski 66 vice chairman, president, director michael s. ettinger 58 senior vice president, corporate &amp; legal affairs and chief of staff, secretary mark e. mlotek 64 executive vice president, chief strategic officer, director steven paladino 62 executive vice president, chief financial officer, director walter siegel 60 senior vice president and general counsel stanley m. bergman has been our chairman and chief executive officer since 1989 and a director since 1982. mr. bergman held the position of president from 1989 to 2005. mr. bergman held the position of executive vice president from 1985 to 1989 and vice president of finance and administration from 1980 to 1985. gerald a. benjamin has been our executive vice president and chief administrative officer since 2000 and a director since 1994. prior to holding his current position, mr. benjamin was senior vice president of administration and customer satisfaction since 1993. mr. benjamin was vice president of distribution operations from 1990 to 1992 and director of materials management from 1988 to 1990. before joining us in 1988, mr. benjamin was employed for 12 years at est e lauder, inc., in various management positions where his last position was director of materials planning and control. james p. breslawski has been our vice chairman since 2018, president since 2005 and a director since 1992. mr. breslawski was the chief executive officer of our henry schein global dental group from 2005 to 2018. mr. breslawski held the position of executive vice president and president of u.s. dental from 1990 to 2005, with primary responsibility for the north american dental group. between 1980 and 1990, mr. breslawski held various positions with us, including chief financial officer, vice president of finance and administration and corporate controller. michael s. ettinger has been senior vice president, corporate &amp; legal affairs, chief of staff and secretary since 2015. prior to his current position, mr. ettinger served as senior vice president, corporate &amp; legal affairs and secretary from 2013 to 2015, corporate senior vice president, general counsel &amp; secretary from 2006 to 2013, vice president, general counsel and secretary from 2000 to 2006, vice president and associate general counsel from 1998 to 2000 and associate general counsel from 1994 to 1998. before joining us, mr. ettinger served as a senior associate with bower &amp; gardner and as a member of the tax department at arthur andersen. mark e. mlotek has been executive vice president and chief strategic officer since 2012. mr. mlotek was senior vice president and subsequently executive vice president of the corporate business development group between 2000 and 2012. prior to that, mr. mlotek was vice president, general counsel and secretary from 1994 to 1999 and became a director in 1995. prior to joining us, mr. mlotek was a partner in the law firm of proskauer rose llp, counsel to us, specializing in mergers and acquisitions, corporate reorganizations and tax law from 1989 to 1994. steven paladino has been our executive vice president and chief financial officer since 2000. prior to holding his current position, mr. paladino was senior vice president and chief financial officer from 1993 to 2000 and has been a director since 1992. from 1990 to 1992, mr. paladino served as vice president and treasurer and from 1987 to 1990 served as corporate controller. before joining us, mr. paladino was employed in public accounting for seven years, most recently with the international accounting firm of bdo usa, llp. mr. paladino is a certified public accountant. 18 table of contents walter siegel has been senior vice president and general counsel since 2013. prior to joining us, mr. siegel was employed with standard microsystems corporation, a publicly traded global semiconductor company from 2005 to 2012, holding positions of increasing responsibility, most recently as senior vice president, general counsel and secretary. other executive management the following table sets forth certain information regarding other executive management: name age position david brous 51 president, strategic business units group and asia pacific &amp; brazil dental brad connett 61 president, u.s. medical group jonathan koch 45 senior vice president and chief executive officer, global dental group and interim chief executive officer, henry schein one lorelei mcglynn 56 chief human resources officer james mullins 55 senior vice president, global services christopher pendergast 57 senior vice president and chief technology officer michael racioppi 65 senior vice president, chief merchandising officer ren willi, ph.d. 52 president, global dental surgical group david brous has been our president, strategic business units group and asia pacific &amp; brazil dental since 2019. mr. brous joined us in 2002 and has held many positions within the organization, including leading and managing the corporate business development group and the international healthcare group (managing our international animal health business, international medical business and australia / new zealand dental business). brad connett has been president of our u.s. medical group since 2018. mr. connett joined us in 1997 and has held a number of increasingly responsible positions at the company. throughout his career, he has received numerous industry honors, including the john f. sasen leadership award from the health industry distributors association (hida), in recognition of his service to the industry, and induction into the medical distribution hall of fame by repertoire magazine. jonathan koch has been our senior vice president and chief executive officer of our global dental group since 2018 and interim chief executive officer of henry schein one since january 2020. prior to joining us, for the years 2006 to 2018, mr. koch was a senior executive at covance, the drug development services business of laboratory corporation of america. in his last role at covance, mr. koch was the executive vice president and group president of covance clinical development &amp; commercialization services. prior to that, mr. koch was executive vice president and group president of covance research and development laboratories from 2015 to 2017. mr. koch was also president of covance central laboratory services from 2010 to 2015, and vice president at covance, with various responsibilities, from 2006 to 2010. prior to covance, mr. koch held senior leadership roles of increasing responsibility while employed with charles river laboratories from 1998 to 2006. lorelei mcglynn has served as senior vice president, global human resources officer since 2013. since joining us in 1999, ms. mcglynn has served as vice president, global human resources and financial operations from 2008 to 2013, chief financial officer, international group and vice president of global financial operations from 2002 to 2008 and vice president, finance, north america from 1999 to 2002. prior to joining us, ms. mcglynn served as assistant vice president of finance at adecco corporation. james mullins has served as our senior vice president of global services since 2018. mr. mullins joined us in 1988 and has held a number of key positions with increasing responsibility, including global chief customer service officer. 19 table of contents christopher pendergast has been our senior vice president and chief technology officer since 2018. prior to joining us, mr. pendergast was the employed by vsp global from 2008 to 2018, most recently as the chief technology officer and chief information officer. prior to vsp global, mr. pendergast served in roles of increasing responsibility at natural organics, inc., from 2006 to 2008, ideasphere inc./twinlab corporation from 2000 to 2006, ibm corporation from 1987 to 1994 and 1998 to 2000 and rohm and haas from 1994 to 1998. michael racioppi has been our senior vice president, chief merchandising officer since 2008. prior to holding his current position, mr. racioppi was president of the medical division from 2000 to 2008 and interim president from 1999 to 2000, and corporate vice president from 1994 to 2008, with primary responsibility for the medical group, marketing and merchandising departments. mr. racioppi served as senior director, corporate merchandising from 1992 to 1994. before joining us in 1992, mr. racioppi was employed by ketchum distributors, inc. as the vice president of purchasing and marketing. he currently serves on the board of national distribution and contracting and previously served on the board of health distribution management association and health industry distributors association (hida). ren willi, ph.d. has been our president, global dental surgical group, henry schein inc., since 2013. prior to joining henry schein, dr. willi held senior level roles with institut straumann ag as executive vice president, surgical business unit from 2005 to 2013. prior to straumann, he held roles of increasing responsibility in medtronic plc's cardiovascular division from 2003 to 2005 and with mckinsey &amp; company as a management consultant from 2000 to 2003. 20 table of contents item 1a. risk factors the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition and/or the trading price of our common stock. although it is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties, they may include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider not to be material to our operations. you should not consider this list to be a complete statement of all risks and uncertainties. the order in which these factors appear should not be construed to indicate their relative importance or priority. the health care products distribution industry is highly competitive and consolidating, and we may not be able to compete successfully. we compete with numerous companies, including several major manufacturers and distributors. some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, which could allow them to compete more successfully. most of our products are available from several sources and our customers tend to have relationships with several distributors. competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market particular products, which we would then be unable to market. manufacturers also could increase their efforts to sell directly to end-users and thereby eliminate or reduce our role and the roles of other distributors. industry consolidation among health care product distributors, price competition, the unavailability of products, whether due to our inability to gain access to products or to interruptions in supply from manufacturers, or the emergence of new competitors, also could increase competition. there has also been increasing consolidation among manufacturers of health care products which could have a material adverse effect on our margins and product availability. additionally, in this competitive market, some of our contracts contain minimum purchase commitments. we could be subject to charges and financial losses in the event we fail to satisfy minimum purchase commitments. in the future, we may be unable to compete successfully and competitive pressures may reduce our revenues and profitability. we may experience competition from third-party online commerce sites. traditional health care supply and distribution relationships are being challenged by electronic online commerce solutions. the continued advancement of online commerce by third parties will require us to cost-effectively adapt to changing technologies, to enhance existing services and to differentiate our business (including with additional value-added services) to address changing demands of consumers and our customers on a timely basis. the emergence of such potential competition and our inability to anticipate and effectively respond to changes on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business. because substantially all of the products that we distribute are not manufactured by us, we are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture and supply of substantially all of our products. we obtain substantially all of our products from third parties. generally, we do not have long-term contracts with our suppliers committing them to supply products to us. therefore, suppliers may not provide the products we need in the quantities we request. while there is generally more than one source of supply for most of the categories of products we sell, some key suppliers, in the aggregate, supply a significant portion of the products we sell. additionally, because we generally do not control the actual production of the products we sell, we may be subject to delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions outside of our control, including the failure to comply with applicable government requirements. the failure of manufacturers of products regulated by the fda or other governmental agencies to meet these requirements could result in product recall, cessation of sales or other market disruptions. in the event that any of our third-party suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to continue to provide the products in our required volumes, we would need to identify and obtain acceptable replacement sources on a timely basis. there is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain such alternative sources of supply on a timely basis, if at all. an extended interruption in the supply of our products, especially any high sales volume product, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, which most likely would adversely affect the value of our common stock. 21 table of contents our revenues and profitability depend on our relationships with capable sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers of the products that we distribute. our future revenues and profitability depend on our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers. if we fail to maintain our existing relationships with such persons or fail to acquire relationships with such key persons in the future, our business may be materially adversely affected. our future success is substantially dependent upon our senior management. our future success is substantially dependent upon the efforts and abilities of members of our existing senior management, particularly stanley m. bergman, chairman and chief executive officer. the loss of the services of mr. bergman could have a material adverse effect on our business. we have an employment agreement with mr. bergman. we do not currently have key man life insurance policies on any of our employees. competition for senior management is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel. we experience fluctuations in quarterly earnings. as a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. our business is subject to seasonal and other quarterly fluctuations. revenues and profitability generally have been higher in the third and fourth quarters due to the timing of sales of seasonal products (including influenza vaccine, equipment and software products), purchasing patterns of office-based health care practitioners and year-end promotions. revenues and profitability generally have been lower in the first quarter, primarily due to increased sales in the prior two quarters. we expect our historical seasonality of sales to continue in the foreseeable future. quarterly results may also be materially adversely affected by a variety of other factors, including: timing and amount of sales and marketing expenditures; timing of pricing changes offered by our suppliers; timing of the introduction of new products and services by our suppliers; timing of the release of upgrades and enhancements to our technology-related products and services; changes in or availability of supplier contracts or rebate programs; supplier rebates based upon attaining certain growth goals; changes in the way suppliers introduce or deliver products to market; costs of developing new applications and services; our ability to correctly identify customer needs and preferences and predict future needs and preferences; uncertainties regarding potential significant breaches of data security or disruptions of our information technology systems; unexpected regulatory actions, or government regulation generally; exclusivity requirements with certain suppliers, which may prohibit us from distributing competitive products manufactured by other suppliers; loss of sales representatives; costs related to acquisitions and/or integrations of technologies or businesses; 22 table of contents costs associated with our self-insured medical and dental insurance programs; general market and economic conditions, as well as those specific to the health care industry and related industries; our success in establishing or maintaining business relationships; unexpected difficulties in developing and manufacturing products; product demand and availability, or product recalls by manufacturers; exposure to product liability and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury; increases in shipping costs or service issues with our third-party shippers; fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies; restructuring costs; the adoption or repeal of legislation; changes in accounting principles; and litigation or regulatory judgments, expenses or settlements. any change in one or more of these or other factors could cause our annual or quarterly financial results to fluctuate. if our financial results do not meet market expectations, our stock price may decline. expansion of group purchasing organizations ( gpo ) or provider networks and the multi-tiered costing structure may place us at a competitive disadvantage. the medical products industry is subject to a multi-tiered costing structure, which can vary by manufacturer and/or product. under this structure, certain institutions can obtain more favorable prices for medical products than we are able to obtain. the multi-tiered costing structure continues to expand as many large integrated health care providers and others with significant purchasing power, such as gpos, demand more favorable pricing terms. additionally, the formation of provider networks and gpos may shift purchasing decisions to entities or persons with whom we do not have a historical relationship. this may threaten our ability to compete effectively, which could in turn negatively impact our financial results. although we are seeking to obtain similar terms from manufacturers to obtain access to lower prices demanded by gpo contracts or other contracts, and to develop relationships with provider networks and new gpos, we cannot assure that such terms will be obtained or contracts will be executed. increases in shipping costs or service issues with our third-party shippers could harm our business. shipping is a significant expense in the operation of our business. we ship almost all of our orders through third-party delivery services, and typically bear the cost of shipment. accordingly, any significant increase in shipping rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. similarly, strikes or other service interruptions by those shippers could cause our operating expenses to rise and materially adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis. 23 table of contents uncertain global macro-economic and political conditions could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. uncertain global macro-economic and political conditions that affect the economy and the economic outlook of the united states, europe and other parts of the world could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. these uncertainties, include, among other things: the united kingdom's vote to leave the european union (generally referred to as brexit) and any other similar referenda or actions by other european union member countries (during 2019, approximately 3% of our consolidated net sales were invoiced to customers in the united kingdom and approximately 20% of our consolidated net sales were invoiced to customers in europe overall, including the u.k.); election results; changes to laws and policies governing foreign trade (including, without limitation, the united states-mexico-canada agreement (usmca) and other international trade agreements); greater restrictions on imports and exports; changes in laws and policies governing health care or data privacy; tariffs and sanctions; sovereign debt levels; the inability of political institutions to effectively resolve actual or perceived economic, currency or budgetary crises or issues; consumer confidence; unemployment levels (and a corresponding increase in the uninsured and underinsured population); changes in regulatory and tax regulations, including, without limitation, the tax act; increases in interest rates; availability of capital; increases in fuel and energy costs; the effect of inflation on our ability to procure products and our ability to increase prices over time; changes in tax rates and the availability of certain tax deductions; increases in health care costs; the threat or outbreak of war, terrorism or public unrest; and changes in laws and policies governing manufacturing, development and investment in territories and countries where we do business. additionally, changes in government, government debt and/or budget crises may lead to reductions in government spending in certain countries, which could reduce overall health care spending, and/or higher income or corporate taxes, which could depress spending overall. 24 table of contents recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending may also cause customers to reduce, modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may cause suppliers to reduce their output or change their terms of sale. we generally sell products to customers with payment terms. if customers' cash flow or operating and financial performance deteriorate, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment to us. likewise, for similar reasons suppliers may restrict credit or impose different payment terms. any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for our products and/or services or any demands by suppliers for different payment terms may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. disruptions in the financial markets may materially adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us. our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. disruptions in the financial markets may materially adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile. a variety of factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, including, but not limited to: the publication of earnings estimates or other research reports and speculation in the press or investment community; changes in our industry and competitors; changes in government or legislation; our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and prospects; stock repurchases; any future issuances of our common stock, which may include primary offerings for cash, stock splits, issuances in connection with business acquisitions, issuances of restricted stock/units and the grant or exercise of stock options from time to time; general market and economic conditions; and any outbreak or escalation of hostilities in areas where we do business. in addition, the nasdaq stock market can experience extreme price and volume fluctuations that can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies listed on nasdaq. broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of actual operating performance. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class action or derivative litigation has often been instituted against companies. this type of litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. the health care industry is experiencing changes that could materially adversely affect our business. the health care industry is highly regulated and subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. in recent years, the health care industry has undergone, and is in the process of undergoing, significant changes driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including, among other things: trends toward managed care; consolidation 25 table of contents of health care distribution companies; consolidation of health care manufacturers; collective purchasing arrangements and consolidation among office-based health care practitioners; and changes in reimbursements to customers, as well as growing enforcement activities (and related monetary recoveries) by governmental officials. both our profitability and the profitability of our customers may be materially adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals and/or medical treatments or services, or changes to the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined. if we are unable to react effectively to these and other changes in the health care industry, our financial results could be materially adversely affected. the implementation of the health care reform law could materially adversely affect our business. the health care reform law increased federal oversight of private health insurance plans and included a number of provisions designed to reduce medicare expenditures and the cost of health care generally, to reduce fraud and abuse, and to provide access to increased health coverage. the health care reform law contained many provisions designed to generate the revenues necessary to fund the coverage expansions and to reduce costs of medicare and medicaid, which included a 2.3% excise tax on domestic sales of many medical devices by manufacturers and importers that was to begin in 2013 and a fee on branded prescription drugs and biologics. the fee on branded prescription drugs and biologics was implemented in 2011, and may adversely affect sales and cost of goods sold. however, subsequent federal laws had suspended the imposition of the medical device excise tax through december 31, 2019, and the further consolidated appropriations act, 2020, signed into law on december 20, 2019, has permanently repealed the medical device excise tax. the health care reform law has also materially expanded the number of individuals in the united states with health insurance. the health care reform law has faced ongoing legal challenges, including litigation seeking to invalidate some of or all of the law or the manner in which it has been implemented. in addition, the president is seeking to repeal and replace the health care reform law. repeal and replace legislation has been passed in the house of representatives, but did not obtain the necessary votes in the senate. subsequently, the president has affirmed his intention to repeal and replace the health care reform law and has taken a number of administrative actions to materially weaken it, including, without limitation, by permitting the use of less robust plans with lower coverage and eliminating premium support for insurers providing policies under the health care reform law. on december 22, 2017, the president signed into law the tax act, which contains a broad range of tax reform provisions that impact the individual and corporate tax rates, international tax provisions, income tax add-back provisions and deductions and which also repealed the individual mandate of the health care reform law. further, in december 2019, the fifth circuit ruled that the mandate within the health care reform law requiring that people buy health insurance was unconstitutional, though the ruling will likely be appealed. the fifth circuit remanded the remainder of the case, pertaining to the viability of the health care reform law, in the absence of the individual mandate, to the district court of the northern district of texas. any outcome of these cases that changes the health care reform law could have a significant impact on the u.s. health care industry. the uncertain status of the health care reform law affects our ability to plan. recently, there has been increased scrutiny on drug pricing and concurrent efforts to control or reduce drug costs by congress, the president, and various states, including that several related bills have been introduced at the federal level. such legislation, if enacted, could have the potential to impose additional costs on our business. the implementation of the reporting and disclosure obligations of the physician payment sunshine act provisions of the health care reform law could adversely affect our business. a health care reform law provision, generally referred to as the physician payment sunshine act, or open payments program, imposes annual reporting and disclosure requirements for drug and device manufacturers and distributors with regard to payments or other transfers of value made to certain covered recipients (including physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals), and for such manufacturers and distributors and for group purchasing organizations, with regard to certain ownership interests held by physicians in the reporting entity. cms publishes 26 table of contents information from these reports on a publicly available website, including amounts transferred and physician, dentist and teaching hospital identities. amendments expanded the law to also require reporting, effective january 1, 2022, of payments or other transfers of value to physician assistants, nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists, certified registered nurse anesthetists, and certified nurse-midwives, and this new requirement will be effective for data collected beginning in calendar year 2021. under the physician payment sunshine act we are required to collect and report detailed information regarding certain financial relationships we have with covered recipients such as physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals. we believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable physician payment sunshine act requirements. the physician payment sunshine act pre-empts similar state reporting laws, although we or our subsidiaries may be required to report under certain state transparency laws that address circumstances not covered by the physician payment sunshine act, and some of these state laws, as well as the federal law, can be ambiguous. we are also subject to foreign regulations requiring transparency of certain interactions between suppliers and their customers. while we believe we have substantially compliant programs and controls in place to comply with these requirements, our compliance with these rules imposes additional costs on us. failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could materially adversely affect our business. our business is subject to requirements under various local, state, federal and international laws and regulations applicable to the distribution of pharmaceuticals and medical devices, and human cells, tissue and cellular and tissue-based products, also known as hct/p products, and animal feed and supplements. among the federal laws with which we must comply are the controlled substances act, the fdc act, as amended, and section 361 of the public health services act. among other things, such laws, and the regulations promulgated thereunder: regulate the storage and distribution, labeling, packaging, handling, reporting, record keeping, introduction, manufacturing and marketing of drugs, hct/p products and medical devices; subject us to inspection by the fda and the dea; regulate the storage, transportation and disposal of certain of our products that are considered hazardous materials; require us to advertise and promote our drugs and devices in accordance with applicable fda requirements; require registration with the fda and the dea and various state agencies; require record keeping and documentation of transactions involving drug products; require us to design and operate a system to identify and report suspicious orders of controlled substances to the dea; require us to manage returns of products that have been recalled and subject us to inspection of our recall procedures and activities; and impose reporting requirements if a pharmaceutical, hct/p product or medical device causes serious illness, injury or death. applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations also may require us to meet various standards relating to, among other things, licensure or registration, sales and marketing practices, product integrity and supply tracking to the manufacturer of the product, personnel, privacy and security of health or other personal information, installation, maintenance and repair of equipment, and the importation and exportation of products. our business is also subject to requirements of similar and other foreign governmental laws and regulations affecting our operations 27 table of contents abroad. the fda and dea have recently increased their regulatory and enforcement activities, and in particular, the dea has increased generally its regulatory and enforcement activities due to the widely reported opioid crisis in the united states. the failure to comply with any of these regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or the imposition of any additional laws and regulations, could materially adversely affect our business. there can be no assurance that current and future government regulations will not adversely affect our business. the costs to us associated with complying with the various applicable statutes and regulations, as they now exist and as they may be modified, could be material. allegations by a governmental body that we have not complied with these laws could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. while we believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable laws and regulations, and believe we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, if it is determined that we have not complied with these laws, we are potentially subject to penalties, including warning letters, civil and criminal penalties, mandatory recall of product, seizure of product and injunction, consent decrees and suspension or limitation of product sale and distribution. if we enter into settlement agreements to resolve allegations of non-compliance, we could be required to make settlement payments or be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the loss of licenses. non-compliance with government requirements could adversely affect our ability to participate in federal and state government health care programs and damage our reputation. the eu medical device regulation may adversely affect our business. as of may 26, 2020, the european union medical device regulation no. 2017/745 (the eu mdr ) applies to medical devices developed and/or commercialized in the european union. the eu mdr is anticipated to have a major impact on the medical device industry as a whole. it may adversely affect our business in various ways. first, to the extent new products require a conformity assessment and such conformity assessment requires involvement of a notified body, the current and persisting significant shortage of notified bodies may limit our options to seek certification and/or significantly delay certification. furthermore the (few) existing notified bodies designated under the eu mdr are experiencing significant capacity bottlenecks, which leads to above-average timelines for product certifications. the same applies to timelines for recertification of our existing products for which the ce certificate is approaching expiry. this may result in us not being able to launch or to continue commercializing products. furthermore, within the context of conformity assessment (both for self-certified devices, and for devices under conformity assessment with a notified body), the eu mdr is tightening the requirements for clinical evaluation of a device. in the specific case of class i products, where to date the legal manufacturer confirmed compliance with the regulatory requirements, oversight by supervisory authorities is expected to increase, and such authorities may have a stricter view. it may be that, from a perspective of the legal manufacturer, or of an authority, the existing product documentation has to be expanded, which may require additional development work. we may also have to decide to discontinue commercialization of certain products, if and to the extent investments into additional development are not commensurate with the business contribution of such products. additionally in the context of conformity assessment, certain national authorities as well as the european commission have further scrutinized the business model of own brand labeling (private label products) under the eu mdr, i.e., the reliance of a manufacturer distributing a product under its name on an assessment of a supplier confirming that the product meets the regulatory requirements, including its technical file(s) for the supplied product. while this question remains under intense discussion between the industry and the authorities, and while we are exploring all options, this may require us to adapt the supply chain structure (e.g., by switching suppliers or moving to a distribution business model under which the supplier of a product is labeled as the legal manufacturer), for certain of our products, and may make it more difficult to bring private label products to market in europe. we may not be able to continue commercializing products, if no alternative supply chain solution is found. in addition, the eu mdr is imposing more stringent regulatory requirements across the whole value chain including post marketing requirements, additional requirements for the organization of the quality management 28 table of contents system such as a responsible person for regulatory compliance, post marketing safety reporting, the requirement of unique device identification (udi), and the input into a european databank on medical devices (eudamed, which however is delayed in its operations, with unknown implications on the regulatory obligations for product owners and distributors). also, the regulatory requirements for our interactions with suppliers and distributors alike are tightened. these additional regulatory requirements increase our compliance obligations and thus the risk for non-compliance and greater costs. the uncertain impact of the new eu mdr regulations, as well as failure to comply with the eu mdr, could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to health care fraud or other laws and regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations, which could materially adversely affect our business. certain of our businesses are subject to federal and state (and similar foreign) health care fraud and abuse, referral and reimbursement laws and regulations with respect to their operations. some of these laws, referred to as false claims laws, prohibit the submission or causing the submission of false or fraudulent claims for reimbursement to federal, state and other health care payers and programs. other laws, referred to as anti-kickback laws, prohibit soliciting, offering, receiving or paying remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient or ordering, purchasing, leasing or arranging for, or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing of, items or services that are paid for by federal, state and other health care payers and programs. health care fraud measures may implicate, for example, our relationships with pharmaceutical manufacturers, our pricing and incentive programs for physician and dental practices, and our dental and physician practice management products that offer billing related functionality. the fraud and abuse laws and regulations have been subject to varying interpretations, as well as heightened enforcement activity over the past few years, and significant enforcement activity has been the result of relators who serve as whistleblowers by filing complaints in the name of the united states (and if applicable, particular states) under federal and state false claims laws, and who may receive up to 30% of total government recoveries. penalties under fraud and abuse laws may be severe. for example, under the federal false claims act, violations may result in treble damages, plus civil penalties of up to $22,927 per claim, as well as exclusion from federal health care programs and criminal penalties. most states have adopted similar state false claims laws, and these state laws have their own penalties which may be in addition to federal false claims act penalties. with respect to anti-kickback laws, violations of, for example, the federal anti-kickback law may result in civil penalties of up to $100,522 for each violation, plus up to three times the total amount of remuneration offered, paid, solicited or received, as well as exclusion from federal health care programs and criminal penalties. notably, effective october 24, 2018, a new federal anti-kickback law (the eliminating kickbacks in recovery act of 2018 ) enacted in connection with broader addiction services legislation, may impose criminal penalties for kickbacks involving clinical laboratory services, regardless of whether the services at issue involved addiction services, and regardless of whether the services were reimbursed by a federal health care program or by a commercial health insurer. furthermore, the health care reform law significantly strengthened the federal false claims act and the federal anti-kickback law provisions, clarifying that a federal anti-kickback law violation can be a basis for federal false claims act liability. with respect to measures of this type, the united states government (among others) has expressed concerns about financial relationships between suppliers on the one hand and physicians and dentists on the other. as a result, we regularly review and revise our marketing practices as necessary to facilitate compliance. we also are subject to certain united states and foreign laws and regulations concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act, german anti-corruption laws and other anti-bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records, which have been the focus of increasing enforcement activity globally in recent years. our businesses are generally subject to numerous other laws and regulations that could impact our financial results, including, without limitation, 29 table of contents securities, antitrust and marketing laws and regulations. failure to comply with laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. failure to comply with fraud and abuse laws and regulations and other laws and regulations could result in significant civil and criminal penalties and costs, including the loss of licenses and the ability to participate in federal and state health care programs, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. also, these measures may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations or incur substantial defense and settlement expenses. even unsuccessful challenges by regulatory authorities or private relators could result in reputational harm and the incurring of substantial costs. in addition, many of these laws are vague or indefinite and have not been interpreted by the courts, and have been subject to frequent modification and varied interpretation by prosecutorial and regulatory authorities, increasing the risk of non-compliance. we may determine to enter into settlements, make payments, agree to consent decrees or enter into other arrangements to resolve such matters. for example, one of our subsidiaries resolved an investigation by the federal trade commission related to the manner in which it advertised certain data security features of its dental practice management software, which resulted in a consent order and fine. failure to comply with consent decrees could materially adversely affect our business. while we believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable fraud and abuse and other laws and regulations, and believe we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, we cannot predict whether changes in applicable law, or interpretation of laws, or changes in our services or marketing practices in response to changes in applicable law or interpretation of laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to the confidentiality of sensitive personal information or standards in electronic health records or transmissions, we could be required to make significant changes to our products, or incur substantial fines, penalties or other liabilities. the fda has become increasingly active in addressing the regulation of computer software and digital health products intended for use in health care settings. the cures act, signed into law on december 13, 2016, among other things amended the medical device definition to exclude certain software from fda regulation, including clinical decision support software that meet certain criteria. on september 27, 2019, the fda issued a suite of guidance documents on digital health products, which incorporated applicable cures act standards, including regarding the types of clinical decision support tools and other software that are exempt from regulations by the fda as medical devices. certain of our businesses involve the development and sale of software and related products to support physician and dental practice management, and it is possible that the fda or foreign government authorities could determine that one or more of our products is subject to regulation as a medical device, which could subject us or one or more of our businesses to substantial additional requirements with respect to these products. our businesses that involve physician and dental practice management products include electronic information technology systems that store and process personal health, clinical, financial and other sensitive information of individuals. these information technology systems may be vulnerable to breakdown, wrongful intrusions, data breaches and malicious attack, which could require us to expend significant resources to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns, and could involve claims against us by private parties and/or governmental agencies. for example, we are directly or indirectly subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that protect the privacy and security of such information, such as hipaa. hipaa requires, among other things, the implementation of various recordkeeping, operational, notice and other practices intended to safeguard that information, limit its use to allowed purposes and notify individuals in the event of privacy and security breaches. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to breach of contract claims, substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation. also, evolving laws and regulations in this area could restrict the ability of our customers to obtain, use or disseminate patient information, or could require us to incur significant additional costs to re-design our products in a timely manner to reflect these legal requirements, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 30 table of contents other health information standards, such as regulations under hipaa, establish standards regarding electronic health data transmissions and transaction code set rules for specific electronic transactions, such as transactions involving claims submissions to third party payers. certain of our businesses provide electronic practice management products that must meet these requirements. failure to abide by electronic health data transmission standards could expose us to breach of contract claims, substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation. in addition, the european parliament and the council of the european union have adopted the gdpr, effective from may 25, 2018, which increased privacy rights for individuals in europe ( data subjects ), including individuals who are our customers, suppliers and employees. the gdpr extended the scope or responsibilities for data controllers and data processors and generally imposes increased requirements and potential penalties on companies, such as us, that offer goods or services to data subjects or monitor their behavior (including by companies based outside of europe). noncompliance can result in penalties of up to the greater of eur 20 million, or 4% of global company revenues. individual member states may impose additional requirements and penalties regarding certain matters, such as employee personal data. with respect to the personal data it protects, the gdpr requires, among other things, company accountability, consents from data subjects or other acceptable legal basis to process the personal data, breach notifications within 72 hours, data integrity and security, and fairness and transparency regarding the storage, use or other processing of the personal data. the gdpr also provides rights to data subjects relating to modification, erasure and transporting of the personal data. in the united states, the ccpa, which increases the privacy protections afforded california residents and was signed into law on june 28, 2018, became effective january 1, 2020. the ccpa generally requires companies, such as us, to institute additional protections regarding the collection, use and disclosure of certain personal information of california residents. the california attorney general released proposed ccpa regulations on october 10, 2019, and is required to adopt final regulations on or before july 1, 2020. in addition to providing for enforcement by the california attorney general, the ccpa also provides for a private right of action. entities in violation of the ccpa may be liable for civil penalties. other states, as well as the federal government, have increasingly considered the adoption of similarly expansive personal privacy laws, backed by significant civil penalties for non-compliance. while we believe we have substantially compliant programs and controls in place to comply with the gdpr and ccpa requirements, our compliance with these measures is likely to impose additional costs on us, and we cannot predict whether the interpretations of the requirements, or changes in our practices in response to new requirements or interpretations of the requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business. we also sell products and services that health care providers, such as physicians and dentists, use to store and manage patient medical or dental records. these customers and we, are subject to laws, regulations and industry standards, such as hipaa and the payment card industry data security standards, which require the protection of the privacy and security of those records, and our products or services may also be used as part of these customers' comprehensive data security programs, including in connection with their efforts to comply with applicable legal or contractual data privacy and security laws. perceived or actual security vulnerabilities in our products or services, or the perceived or actual failure by us or our customers who use our products or services to comply with applicable legal or contractual data privacy and security requirements, may not only cause us significant reputational harm, but may also lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies and involve substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses and costs for remediation. various federal initiatives involve the adoption and use by health care providers of certain electronic health care records systems and processes. the initiatives include, among others, programs that incentivize physicians and dentists, though medicare's mips, to use certified ehr technology in accordance with certain evolving requirements, including regarding quality, promoting interoperability, cost and improvement activities. qualification for the mips incentive payments requires the use of ehrs that are certified as having certain capabilities designated in standards adopted by cms and by the onc. these standards have been subject to change. certain of our businesses involve the manufacture and sale of certified ehr systems and other products linked to mips and other incentive programs. in order to maintain certification of our ehr products, we must satisfy the 31 table of contents changing governmental standards. if any of our ehr systems do not meet these standards, yet have been relied upon by health care providers to receive federal incentive payments, as noted above, we are exposed to risk, such as under federal health care fraud and abuse laws, including the false claims act. for example, on may 31, 2017, the u.s. department of justice announced a $155 million settlement and 5-year corporate integrity agreement involving a vendor of certified ehr systems, based on allegations that the vendor, by misrepresenting capabilities to the certifying body, caused its health care provider customers to submit false medicare and medicaid claims for meaningful use incentive payments in violation of the false claims act. while we believe we are substantially in compliance with such certifications and with applicable fraud and abuse laws and regulations and we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, we cannot predict whether changes in applicable law, or interpretation of laws, or changes in our practices in response to changes in applicable law or interpretation of laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business. moreover, in order to satisfy our customers, our products may need to incorporate increasingly complex reporting functionality. although we believe we are positioned to accomplish this, the effort may involve increased costs, and our failure to implement product modifications, or otherwise satisfy applicable standards, could have a material adverse effect on our business. additionally, as electronic medical devices are increasingly connected to each other and to other technology, the ability of these connected systems safely and effectively to exchange and use exchanged information becomes increasingly important. for example, on september 6, 2017, the fda issued final guidance to assist industry in identifying specific considerations related to the ability of electronic medical devices to safely and effectively exchange and use exchanged information. as a medical device manufacturer, we must manage risks including those associated with an electronic interface that is incorporated into a medical device. there may be additional legislative or regulatory initiatives in the future impacting health care. our global operations are subject to inherent risks that could materially adversely affect our business. global operations are subject to risks that may materially adversely affect our business. the risks that our global operations are subject to include, among other things: difficulties and costs relating to staffing and managing foreign operations; difficulties in establishing channels of distribution; fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies (including, without limitation, in connection with brexit); longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions; repatriation of cash from our foreign operations to the united states; regulatory requirements; anti-bribery, anti-corruption and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records; unexpected difficulties in importing or exporting our products; imposition of import/export tariffs, quotas, sanctions or penalties; difficulties and delays inherent in sourcing products and contract manufacturing in foreign markets; limitations on our ability under local laws to protect our intellectual property; unexpected regulatory, legal, economic and political changes in foreign markets; 32 table of contents changes in tax regulations that influence purchases of capital equipment; civil disturbances, geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism, war or political or military coups; and public health emergencies, including the coronavirus (as defined below). the coronavirus could materially adversely affect our results the novel coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) ( coronavirus ) is impacting worldwide economic activity, and activity in china in particular. estimates for chinese gross domestic product and economic growth have been reduced as a result of the coronavirus. the company has several businesses in china that were forced to close as a result of the coronavirus for certain periods, with a corresponding effect on their sales activity. in addition, it is unclear if the coronavirus will spread to other countries, and how economic activity might be impacted on a worldwide basis. the company also might be unable to obtain infection control products from its suppliers due to the additional demand for such products created by the virus. the impact of the virus on chinese and other economic activity, and its effect on the supply chain are uncertain at this time and could have a material adverse effect on our results. we operate within the european union, including in the united kingdom, and therefore may be affected by the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union. we operate within the european union, including the united kingdom, and as a result, we face risks associated with the potential uncertainty and disruptions that may lead up to and follow brexit, including with respect to volatility in exchange rates and interest rates and potential material changes to the regulatory regime applicable to our operations in the u.k. brexit could adversely affect european or worldwide political, regulatory, economic or market conditions and could contribute to instability in global political institutions, regulatory agencies and financial markets. during 2019, approximately 3% of our consolidated net sales were invoiced to customers in the united kingdom and approximately 20% of our consolidated net sales were invoiced to customers in europe overall, including the u.k. there is significant uncertainty about the terms and timing under which the u.k. will continue a relationship with the eu. it is possible that brexit will result in our u.k. and eu operations becoming subject to materially different, and potentially conflicting, laws, regulations or tariffs which could require costly new compliance initiatives or changes to legal entity structures or operating practices. furthermore, in the event the u.k. and the eu do not reach a trade agreement during a prescribed transition period, there may be additional adverse impacts on immigration and trade between the u.k. and the eu or countries outside the eu. such impacts could materially adversely affect our business. the ultimate effects of brexit on us will depend on the specific terms of any agreement the u.k. and the eu reach to provide access to each other's respective markets. our expansion through acquisitions and joint ventures involves risks. we have expanded our domestic and international markets in part through acquisitions and joint ventures, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions and enter into joint ventures in the future. such transactions involve numerous risks, including possible material adverse effects on our financial results or the market price of our common stock. some of our acquisitions and future acquisitions may also give rise to an obligation by us to make contingent payments or to satisfy certain repurchase obligations, which payments could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. in addition, integrating acquired businesses and joint ventures: may result in a loss of customers or product lines of the acquired businesses or joint ventures; requires significant management attention; may place significant demands on our operations, information systems and financial resources; and 33 table of contents results in additional acquisition and integration expenses. there can be no assurance that our future acquisitions or joint ventures will be successful. our ability to continue to successfully effect acquisitions and joint ventures will depend upon the following: the availability of suitable acquisition or joint venture candidates at acceptable prices; our ability to consummate such transactions, which could potentially be prohibited due to u.s. or foreign antitrust regulations; the availability of financing on acceptable terms, in the case of non-stock transactions; the liquidity of our investments and our ability to raise capital could be affected by the financial credit markets; and our ability to retain, recruit and incentivize the management of the companies we acquire. our acquisitions may not result in the benefits and revenue growth we expect. we are in the process of integrating companies that we acquired and including the operations, services, products and personnel of each company within our management policies, procedures and strategies. we cannot be sure that we will achieve the benefits of revenue growth that we expect from these acquisitions or that we will not incur unforeseen additional costs or expenses in connection with these acquisitions. to effectively manage our expected future growth, we must continue to manage successfully our integration of these companies and continue to improve our operational systems, internal procedures, working capital management and financial and operational controls. if we fail in any of these areas, our business could be materially adversely affected. if the animal health spin-off or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the animal health spin-off are determined to be taxable in whole or in part, we and our stockholders may incur substantial tax liabilities. in connection with the animal health spin-off, we obtained an opinion of outside tax counsel that the animal health spin-off will qualify as a tax-free transaction to us and our stockholders for u.s. federal income tax purposes. we have not sought or obtained a ruling from the internal revenue service ( irs ) on the tax consequences of the transaction. in addition, the tax opinion is subject to customary qualifications and assumptions, and is based on factual representations and undertakings. the failure of any factual representation or assumption to be true, correct and complete in all material respects, or any undertakings to be fully complied with, could affect the validity of the tax opinion. moreover, an opinion of counsel represents counsel's best legal judgment, is not binding on the irs or the courts, and the irs or the courts may not agree with the conclusions set forth in the tax opinion. even if the animal health spin-off otherwise qualified as a tax-free transaction for u.s. federal income tax purposes, it may become taxable to us if certain events occur that affect either us or covetrus. while covetrus has agreed not to take certain actions that could cause the transaction not to qualify as a tax-free transaction and is generally obligated to indemnify us against any tax consequences if it breaches this agreement, the potential tax liabilities could have an adverse effect on us if we were not entitled to indemnification or if the indemnification obligations were not fulfilled. if the animal health spin-off or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the animal health spin-off are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we and/or our u.s. stockholders who participated in the animal health spin-off could incur substantial u.s. federal income tax liabilities. there can be no assurance that we would be entitled to indemnification or that covetrus would have the resources or liquidity required to indemnify us for any such taxable gain. in addition, we and/or our stockholders who participated in the animal health spin-off could incur tax costs in foreign jurisdictions in connection with the transaction, irrespective of whether the animal health spin-off qualifies as tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes. 34 table of contents the animal health spin-off may not achieve the intended benefits and may expose us to potential risks and liabilities. we completed the animal health spin-off on february 7, 2019. we undertook the transaction because, among other things, we believed that our animal health business could achieve greater growth by combining with vets first choice and that we could benefit from greater strategic focus of our resources and management efforts. we may not benefit as expected from the increased focus on our core business, strategic programs and objectives made possible by the animal health spin-off. in addition, the value of the transaction may be reduced by potential liabilities related to post-closing adjustments and indemnities, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we face inherent risk of exposure to product liability, intellectual property infringement and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury. our business involves a risk of product liability, intellectual property infringement and other claims in the ordinary course of business, and from time to time we are named as a defendant in cases as a result of our distribution of products. additionally, we own interests in companies that manufacture certain dental products. as a result, we are subject to the potential risk of product liability, intellectual property infringement or other claims relating to the manufacture and distribution of products by those entities. additionally, as our private-label business continues to grow, purchasers of such products may increasingly seek recourse directly from us, rather than the ultimate product manufacturer, for product-related claims. another potential risk we face in the distribution of our products is liability resulting from counterfeit or tainted products infiltrating the supply chain. in addition, some of the products that we transport and sell are considered hazardous materials. the improper handling of such materials or accidents involving the transportation of such materials could subject us to liability. in addition, our reputation could be adversely affected by negative publicity surrounding such events regardless of whether or not claims against us are successful. we have various insurance policies, including product liability insurance, covering risks and in amounts that we consider adequate. in many cases in which we have been sued in connection with products manufactured by others, the manufacturer of the product provides us with indemnification. there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost, or that indemnification agreements will provide us with adequate protection. a successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance or not covered by indemnification agreements, or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us, could have a material adverse effect on our business and our reputation. our technology segment depends upon continued software and e-services product development, technical support and successful marketing. competition among companies supplying practice management software and/or e-services is intense and increasing. our future sales of practice management software and e-services will depend on, among other factors: the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs; our ability to enhance our products and services to satisfy customer requirements; and our ability to provide ongoing technical support. we cannot be sure that we will be successful in introducing and marketing new software, software enhancements or e-services, or that such software, software enhancements and e-services will be released on time or accepted by the market. our software and applicable e-services products, like software products generally, may contain undetected errors or bugs when introduced or as new versions are released. we cannot be sure that future problems with post-release software errors or bugs will not occur. any such defective software may result in increased expenses related to the software and could adversely affect our relationships with the customers using such software as well as our reputation. we do not have any patents on our software or e-services, and rely upon copyright, trademark 35 table of contents and trade secret laws, as well as contractual and common law protections. we cannot provide assurance that such legal protections will be available or enforceable to protect our software or e-services products. we rely on third parties for certain technologically advanced products. some of our products contain technologically advanced components, including software, that are developed by third parties. we may not be able to replace the functions provided by these third-party components or products if they become obsolete, defective or incompatible with future versions of our products or with our services and solutions, or if they are not adequately maintained or updated. in addition, third-party suppliers of software or other intellectual property assets could be unwilling to permit us to use their intellectual property and this could impede or disrupt use of their products or services by us and our customers. alternate sources for the technology currently provided by third parties to us may not be available to us in a timely manner, and may not provide us with the same functions as currently provided to us or may be more expensive than products we currently use or sell. further, the risk of intellectual property infringement claims against us may increase as we expand our business to include more technologically advanced products and continue to incorporate third party components, software and/or other intellectual property into the products we sell. also, individuals and firms have purchased intellectual property assets in order to assert claims of infringement against technology providers and customers that use such technology. any infringement action brought against us or our customers could be costly to defend or lead to an expensive settlement or judgment against us. the risks described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results and our reputation. security risks generally associated with our information systems and our technology products and services could materially adversely affect our business, and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if such products, services or systems (or third-party systems we rely on) are interrupted, damaged by unforeseen events, are subject to cyberattacks or fail for any extended period of time. we rely on information systems (is) in our business to obtain, rapidly process, analyze, manage and store customer, product, supplier and employee data to, among other things: maintain and manage worldwide systems to facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution centers; receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis; manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; process payments to suppliers; and provide products and services that maintain certain of our customers' electronic medical or dental records (including protected health information of their patients). information security risks have generally increased in recent years, and a cyberattack that bypasses our is security systems (including third-party systems we rely on) causing an is security breach may lead to a material disruption of our is business systems (including third-party systems we rely on) and/or the loss of business information resulting in a material adverse effect on our business, as well as claims against us by affected parties and/or governmental agencies, and involve fines and penalties, costs for remediation, and substantial defense and settlement expenses. 36 table of contents in addition, we develop products and provide services to our customers that are technology-based, and a cyberattack that bypasses the is security systems of our products or services causing a security breach and/or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products or services could also cause significant reputational harm, and actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies. in particular, certain of our practice management products and services purchased by health care providers, such as physicians and dentists, are used to store and manage patient medical or dental records. these customers are subject to laws and regulations which require that they protect the privacy and security of those records, and our products may be used as part of these customers' comprehensive data security programs, including in connection with their efforts to comply with applicable privacy and security laws. perceived or actual security vulnerabilities in our products or services, or the perceived or actual failure by us or our customers who use our products to comply with applicable legal requirements, may not only cause us significant reputational harm, but may also lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies and involve fines and penalties, costs for remediation, and substantial defense and settlement expenses. regarding direct customer claims, although our customer license agreements typically contain provisions that seek to eliminate or limit our exposure to such liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenges, or that we will be able to obtain such provisions in all cases. in addition, our information systems also utilize certain third party service organizations that manage a portion of our information systems, and our business may be materially adversely affected if these third party service organizations are subject to a cyber attack. additionally, legislative or regulatory action related to cybersecurity may increase our costs to develop or implement new technology products and services. risks associated with these and other is security breaches may include, among other things: future results could be materially adversely affected due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of confidential data or intellectual property; operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of information systems and subsequent clean-up and mitigation activities; procedures and safeguards must continually evolve to meet new is challenges, and enhancing protections, and conducting investigations and remediation, may impose additional costs on us; we may incur claims, fines and penalties, and costs for remediation, or substantial defense and settlement expenses; and negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our customers, partners or industry peers. we also deliver internet-based services and, accordingly, depend on our ability and the ability of our customers to access the internet. in the event of any difficulties, outages and delays by internet service providers, we may be impeded from providing such services, which may have a material adverse effect on our business and our reputation. we have various insurance policies, including cyber liability insurance, covering risks and in amounts that we consider adequate. there can be no assurance that the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost. successful claims for misappropriation or release of confidential or personal data brought against us in excess of available insurance or fines or other penalties assessed or any claim that results in significant adverse publicity against us could have a material adverse effect on our business and our reputation. 37 table of contents certain provisions in our governing documents and other documents to which we are a party may discourage third-party offers to acquire us that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price of their shares. the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, may discourage acquisition bids and may limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. these provisions, among other things: require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 60% of the shares of common stock entitled to vote to approve a merger, consolidation, or a sale, lease, transfer or exchange of all or substantially all of our assets; and require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our common stock entitled to vote to (i) remove a director; and (ii) to amend or repeal our by-laws, with certain limited exceptions. in addition, our 2013 stock incentive plan and 2015 non-employee director stock incentive plan provide for accelerated vesting of stock options upon a change in control. these incentive plans also authorize the committee under the plans to provide for accelerated vesting of other types of equity awards in connection with a change in control at grant or thereafter, and certain other awards made under these incentive plans (such as restricted stock/unit awards) accelerate upon a change in control or upon certain termination events in connection with a change in control. further, certain agreements between us and our executive officers provide for increased severance payments and certain benefits if those executive officers are terminated without cause by us or if they terminate for good reason, in each case within two years after a change in control or within ninety days prior to the effective date of the change in control or after the first public announcement of the pendency of the change in control. tax legislation could materially adversely affect our financial results and tax liabilities. we are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the united states federal, state and local governments, as well as foreign jurisdictions. from time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could materially adversely affect our tax positions. there can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not be materially adversely affected by legislation resulting from these initiatives. on december 22, 2017, the president signed the tax act into law, which contains a broad range of tax reform provisions that impact the individual and corporate tax rates, international tax provisions, income tax add-back provisions and deductions. in addition, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. although we believe that our historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 82 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risks as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates as measured against the u.s. dollar and each other, and changes to the credit markets. we attempt to minimize these risks by primarily using foreign currency forward contracts and by maintaining counter-party credit limits. these hedging activities provide only limited protection against currency exchange and credit risks. factors that could influence the effectiveness of our hedging programs include currency markets and availability of hedging instruments and liquidity of the credit markets. all foreign currency forward contracts that we enter into are components of hedging programs and are entered into for the sole purpose of hedging an existing or anticipated currency exposure. we do not enter into such contracts for speculative purposes and we manage our credit risks by diversifying our investments, maintaining a strong balance sheet and having multiple sources of capital. foreign currency agreements the value of certain foreign currencies as compared to the u.s. dollar and the value of certain underlying functional currencies of the company, including its foreign subsidiaries, may affect our financial results. fluctuations in exchange rates may positively or negatively affect our revenues, gross margins, operating expenses and retained earnings, all of which are expressed in u.s. dollars. where we deem it prudent, we engage in hedging programs using primarily foreign currency forward contracts aimed at limiting the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on earnings. we purchase short-term (i.e., generally 18 months or less) foreign currency forward contracts to protect against currency exchange risks associated with intercompany loans due from our international subsidiaries and the payment of merchandise purchases to foreign suppliers. we do not hedge the translation of foreign currency profits into u.s. dollars, as we regard this as an accounting exposure, not an economic exposure. a hypothetical 5% change in the average value of the u.s. dollar in 2019 compared to foreign currencies would have changed our 2019 reported net income attributable to henry schein, inc. by approximately $6.0 million. as of december 28, 2019, we had forward foreign currency exchange agreements, which expire through november 16, 2023, which include a mark-to-market loss of $3.9 million as determined by quoted market prices. included in the forward foreign currency exchange agreements, henry schein, inc. had eur/usd forward contracts notionally totaling an amount of 200 million, with a reported fair value of these contracts as a net liability of $0.3 million. a 5% increase in the value of the euro to the usd from december 28, 2019, with all other variables held constant, would have had an unfavorable effect on the fair value of these forward contracts by decreasing the value of these instruments by $12.0 million. as of december 28, 2019, henry schein, inc. had euro to brazilian real (brl) cross currency swap contracts notionally totaling an amount of 83.6 million, with a reported fair value of these contracts as a net liability of $1.4 million. a 5% increase in the value of the euro to the brl from december 28, 2019, with all other variables held constant, would have had a favorable effect on the fair value of these swap contracts by increasing the value of these instruments by $4.6 million. short-term investments we limit our credit risk with respect to our cash equivalents, short-term investments and derivative instruments, by monitoring the credit worthiness of the financial institutions who are the counter-parties to such financial instruments. as a risk management policy, we limit the amount of credit exposure by diversifying and utilizing numerous investment grade counter-parties. variable interest rate debt as of december 28, 2019, we had variable interest rate exposure for certain of our revolving credit facilities and our u.s. trade accounts receivable securitization. our revolving credit facility which we entered into on april 18, 2017 and expires on april 18, 2022, has an interest rate that is based on the u.s. dollar libor plus a spread based on our leverage ratio at the end of each financial reporting quarter. as of december 28, 2019, there was $0.0 million outstanding under this revolving credit 82 table of contents facility. during the year ended december 28, 2019, the average outstanding balance under this revolving credit facility was approximately $147.5 million. based upon our average outstanding balance for this revolving credit facility, for each hypothetical increase of 25 basis points, our interest expense thereunder would have increased by $0.4 million. our u.s trade accounts receivable securitization, which we entered into on april 17, 2013 and which expires on april 29, 2022, has an interest rate that is based upon the asset-backed commercial paper rate. as of december 28, 2019, the commercial paper rate was 1.90% plus 0.75%, for a combined rate of 2.65%. at december 28, 2019 the outstanding balance was $100.0 million under this securitization facility. during the year ended december 28, 2019, the average outstanding balance under this securitization facility was approximately $274.8 million. based upon our average outstanding balance for this securitization facility, for each hypothetical increase of 25 basis points, our interest expense thereunder would have increased by $0.7 million. 83 table of contents