risk factors the following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. these risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. before you buy our common stock or common stock non-voting, you should know that making such an investment involves risks, including the risks described below. if any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be negatively affected. in that case, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose part or all of your investment. damage to our reputation or brand name, loss of brand relevance, increase in private label use by customers or consumers, or product quality or safety concerns could negatively impact us. our reputation for manufacturing high-quality products is widely recognized. in order to safeguard that reputation, we have adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure conformity to specification and compliance with law. we also continually make efforts to maintain and improve relationships with our customers and consumers and to increase awareness and relevance of our brands through effective marketing and other measures. a serious breach of our quality assurance or quality control procedures, deterioration of our quality image, impairment of our customer or consumer relationships, or failure to adequately protect the relevance of our brands, which may lead to customers or consumers purchasing other brands or private label items that may or may not be manufactured by us, could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, our customers evaluate their mix of branded and private label product offerings. if a significant portion of our branded business was switched to private label, it could have a significant impact on our consumer business. the food industry generally is subject to risks posed by food spoilage and contamination, product tampering, product recall and consumer product liability claims. for instance, we may be required to recall certain of our products should they be mislabeled, contaminated or damaged. we also may become involved in lawsuits and legal proceedings if it is alleged that the consumption of any of our products causes injury or illness. a product recall or an adverse result in any such litigation could cause consumers in our principal markets to lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain products or ingredients, and have a negative effect on our business and financial results. negative publicity about these concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause disruptions in production or distribution of our products and adversely affect our reputation or brands. the consolidation of customers may put pressure on our operating margins and profitability. our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs, and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years and consolidation could continue throughout the u.s., the european union and other major markets. such consolidation could present a challenge to margin growth and profitability in that it has produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, resisting price increases, demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products, and shifting shelf space currently used for our products to private label products. these factors and others could have an adverse impact on our future sales growth and profitability. issues regarding procurement of raw materials may negatively impact us. our purchases of raw materials are subject to fluctuations in market price and availability caused by weather, growing and harvesting conditions, market conditions, governmental actions and other factors beyond our control. the most significant raw materials used by us in our business are dairy products, pepper, rice, capsicums (red pepper and paprika), onion, soybean oil and wheat. while future price movements of raw material costs are uncertain, we seek to mitigate the market price risk in a number of ways, including strategic raw material purchases, purchases of raw material for future delivery and customer price adjustments. we generally have not used derivatives to manage the volatility related to this risk. to the extent that we have used derivatives for this purpose, it has not been material to our business. any actions we take in response to market price fluctuations may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to changes in raw material prices. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future raw material price fluctuations will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. in addition, we may have very little opportunity to mitigate the risk of availability of certain raw materials due to the effect of weather on crop yield, government actions, political unrest in producing countries, changes in agricultural programs and other factors beyond our control. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future raw material availability will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, or operating results. political, socio-economic and cultural conditions, as well as disruptions caused by terrorist activities, could also create additional risks for food safety. although we have adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure the safety of our imported products, we cannot provide assurance that such events will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. our profitability may suffer as a result of competition in our markets. the food industry is intensely competitive. competition in our product categories is based on price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing and promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. from time to time, we may need to reduce the prices for some of our products to respond to competitive and customer pressures, which may adversely affect our profitability. such pressures could reduce our ability to take appropriate remedial action to address commodity and other cost increases. laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. food products are extensively regulated in many of the countries in which we sell our products. we are subject to numerous food safety and other laws and regulations relating to the sourcing, manufacture, storage, marketing, advertising, and distribution of food products, including laws and regulations relating to financial reporting requirements, the environment, relations with distributors and retailers, employment, health and safety and trade practices. enforcement of existing laws and regulations, changes in legal requirements, and/or evolving interpretations of existing regulatory requirements, may result in increased compliance costs and create other obligations, financial or otherwise, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. our operations may be impaired as a result of disasters, business interruptions or similar events. we could have an interruption in our business, loss of inventory or data, be rendered unable to accept and fulfill customer orders as a result of a natural disaster, catastrophic event, epidemic or computer system failure. natural disasters could include an earthquake, fire, flood, tornado or severe storm. a catastrophic event could include a terrorist attack. an epidemic could affect our operating activities, major facilities or employees' and customers' health. in addition, some of our inventory and production facilities are located in areas that are susceptible to harsh weather; a major storm, heavy snowfall or other similar event could prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner. production of certain of our products is concentrated in a single manufacturing site. we cannot provide assurance that our disaster recovery plan will address all of the issues we may encounter in the event of a disaster or other unanticipated issue, and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur from any of the foregoing. in the event that a natural disaster, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event were to destroy any part of our facilities or interrupt our operations for any extended period of time, or if harsh weather or health conditions prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. we may not be able to successfully consummate and manage ongoing acquisition, joint venture and divestiture activities which could have an impact on our results. from time to time, we may acquire other businesses and, based on an evaluation of our business portfolio, divest existing businesses. these acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures may present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, increased expenses, assumption of unknown liabilities and indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. in addition, we may be required to incur asset impairment charges (including charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets) in connection with acquired businesses which may reduce our profitability. if we are unable to consummate such transactions, or successfully integrate and grow acquisitions and achieve contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, our financial results could be adversely affected. additionally, joint ventures inherently involve a lesser degree of control over business operations, thereby potentially increasing the financial, legal, operational and/or compliance risks. our foreign operations are subject to additional risks. we operate our business and market our products internationally. in fiscal year 2012, approximately 40% of our sales were generated in foreign countries. our foreign operations are subject to additional risks, including fluctuations in currency values, foreign currency exchange controls, discriminatory fiscal policies, compliance with u.s. and foreign laws, enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions and other economic or political uncertainties. beginning in 2011, several countries within the european union experienced sovereign debt and credit issues. this has caused more volatility in the economic environment throughout the european union. additionally, international sales are subject to risks related to imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other similar restrictions. all of these risks could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, which could adversely affect our profitability. fluctuations in foreign currency markets may negatively impact us. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency in the following main areas: cash flows related to raw material purchases; the translation of foreign currency earnings to u.s. dollars; the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. primary exposures include the british pound sterling versus the euro, and the u.s. dollar versus the euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, polish zloty, australian dollar, mexican peso, chinese renminbi, indian rupee and thai baht. we routinely enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to facilitate managing certain of these foreign currency risks. however, these contracts may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to a decline in operating results due to foreign currency exchange changes. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future exchange rate fluctuations will not have a negative impact on our business, financial position or operating results. increases in interest rates may negatively impact us. we had total outstanding short-term borrowings of $140 million at an average interest rate of approximately 0.4% on november 30, 2012. our policy is to manage our interest rate risk by entering into both fixed and variable rate debt arrangements. we also use interest rate swaps to minimize worldwide financing cost and to achieve a desired mix of fixed and variable rate debt. we utilize derivative financial instruments to enhance our ability to manage risk, including interest rate exposures that exist as part of our ongoing business operations. we do not enter into contracts for trading purposes, nor are we a party to any leveraged derivative instruments. our use of derivative financial instruments is monitored through regular communication with senior management and the utilization of written guidelines. however, our use of these instruments may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to changes in interest rates. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future interest rate increases will not have a material negative impact on our business, financial position, or operating results. the deterioration of credit and capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding. we rely on our revolving credit facilities, or borrowings backed by these facilities, to fund a portion of our seasonal working capital needs and other general corporate purposes. if any of the banks in the syndicates backing these facilities were unable to perform on its commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could adversely affect funding of seasonal working capital requirements. we engage in regular communication with all of the banks participating in our revolving credit facilities. during these communications none of the banks have indicated that they may be unable to perform on their commitments. in addition, we periodically review our banking and financing relationships, considering the stability of the institutions, pricing we receive on services, and other aspects of the relationships. based on these communications and our monitoring activities, we believe the likelihood of one of our banks not performing on its commitment is remote. in addition, global capital markets have experienced volatility that has tightened access to capital markets and other sources of funding. in the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time. our inability to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time period could have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. we face risks associated with certain pension assets and obligations. we hold investments in equity and debt securities in our qualified defined benefit pension plans and in a rabbi trust for our u.s. non-qualified pension plan. deterioration in the value of plan assets resulting from a general financial downturn or otherwise, or an increase in the actuarial valuation of the plans liability due to a low interest rate environment, could cause (or increase) an underfunded status of our defined benefit pension plans, thereby increasing our obligation to make contributions to the plans. an obligation to make contributions to pension plans could reduce the cash available for working capital and other corporate uses, and may have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. the global financial downturn exposes us to credit risks from customers and counterparties. consolidations in some of the industries in which our customers operate have created larger customers, some of which are highly leveraged. in addition, competition has increased with the growth in alternative channels through our customer base. these factors have caused some customers to be less profitable and increased our exposure to credit risk. current credit markets are volatile, and some of our customers and counterparties are highly leveraged. a significant adverse change in the financial and/or credit position of a customer or counterparty could require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer or counterparty and could limit our ability to collect receivables. this could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and liquidity. our operations may be impaired if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or if we are the subject of a data breach or cyber attack. our information technology systems are critically important to operating our business efficiently. we rely on our information technology systems to manage our business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment,and other business processes. the failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. furthermore, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to security breaches beyond our control. we invest in security technology to protect our data and business processes against risk of data security breaches and cyber attacks. while we believe these measures are adequate in preventing security breaches and in reducing cybersecurity risks and we have yet to experience any breach, a breach or successful attack could have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation. the global nature of our business and the resolution of tax disputes create volatility in our effective tax rate. as a global business, our tax rate from period to period can be affected by many factors, including changes in tax legislation, our global mix of earnings, the tax characteristics of our income, the timing and recognition of goodwill impairments, acquisitions and dispositions, adjustments to our reserves related to uncertain tax positions, changes in valuation allowances and the portion of the income of foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the u.s. and that will be taxable. in addition, significant judgment is required in determining our effective tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions. we establish accruals for certain tax contingencies when, despite the belief that our tax return positions are fully supported, the positions are uncertain. the tax contingency accruals are adjusted in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of tax audits, case law and emerging legislation. our effective tax rate includes the impact of tax contingency accruals and changes to the accruals, including related interest and penalties, as considered appropriate by management. when particular matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. favorable resolution of such matters could be recognized as a reduction to our effective tax rate in the year of resolution. unfavorable resolution of any particular issue could increase the effective tax rate and may require the use of cash in the year of resolution. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk this information is set forth in the market risk sensitivity section of management's discussion and analysis and in note 6 of the financial statements.risk factors the following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. these risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. before you buy our common stock or common stock non-voting, you should know that making such an investment involves risks, including the risks described below. additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to the company or are currently deemed to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations in the future. if any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. in that case, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose part or all of your investment. damage to our reputation or brand name, loss of brand relevance, increase in private label use by customers or consumers, or product quality or safety concerns could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. we have many iconic brands with long-standing consumer recognition. our success depends on our ability to maintain our brand image for our existing products, extend our brands to new platforms, and expand our brand image with new product offerings. we continually make efforts to maintain and improve relationships with our customers and consumers and to increase awareness and relevance of our brands through effective marketing and other measures. from time to time, our customers evaluate their mix of branded and private label product offerings, and consumers have the option to purchase private label products instead of branded products. if a significant portion of our branded business was switched to private label, it could have a material negative impact on our consumer business. our reputation for manufacturing high-quality products is widely recognized. in order to safeguard that reputation, we have adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure the safety of our products. a serious breach of our quality assurance or quality control procedures, deterioration of our quality image, impairment of our customer or consumer relationships or failure to adequately protect the relevance of our brands may lead to litigation, customers purchasing from our competitors or consumers purchasing other brands or private label items that may or may not be manufactured by us, any of which could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the food industry generally is subject to risks posed by food spoilage and contamination, product tampering, product recall, import alerts and consumer product liability claims. for instance, we may be required to recall certain of our products should they be mislabeled, contaminated or damaged, and certain of our raw materials could be blocked from entering the country if they were subject to import alerts. we also may become involved in lawsuits and legal proceedings if it is alleged that the consumption of any of our products could cause injury or illness, are mislabeled or fail to meet applicable legal requirements (even if the allegation is untrue). a product recall, import alert or an adverse result in any such litigation, or negative perceptions regarding food products and ingredients, could result in our having to pay fines or damages, incur additional costs or cause customers and consumers in our principal markets to lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain products or ingredients, any of which could have a negative effect on our business and financial results. negative publicity about these concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage customers and consumers from buying our products or cause disruptions in production or distribution of our products and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the rising popularity of social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination (whether or not accurate), and, as a result, negative, inaccurate, or misleading posts or comments on websites may generate adverse publicity that could damage our reputation or brands. customer consolidation, and competitive, economic and other pressures facing our customers, may put pressure on our operating margins and profitability. a number of our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years and consolidation could continue. such consolidation could present a challenge to margin growth and profitability in that it has produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, resisting price increases, demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products, and shifting shelf space currently used for our products to private label products. the economic and competitive landscape for our customers is constantly changing, and their response to those changes could impact our business. our industrial business may be impacted if the reputation or perception of the customers of our industrial business declines. these factors and others could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. disruption of our supply chain and issues regarding procurement of raw materials may negatively impact us. our purchases of raw materials are subject to fluctuations in market price and availability caused by weather, growing and harvesting conditions, market conditions, governmental actions and other factors beyond our control. the most significant raw materials used by us in our business are pepper, dairy products, rice, capsicums (red pepper and paprika), onion, garlic and soybean oil. while future price movements of raw material costs are uncertain, we seek to mitigate the market price risk in a number of ways, including strategic raw material purchases, purchases of raw material for future delivery and customer price adjustments. we generally have not used derivatives to manage the volatility related to this risk. to the extent that we have used derivatives for this purpose, it has not been material to our business. any actions we take in response to market price fluctuations may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to changes in raw material prices. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future raw material price fluctuations will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. in addition, we may have very little opportunity to mitigate the risk of availability of certain raw materials due to the effect of weather on crop yield, government actions, political unrest in producing countries, action or inaction by suppliers in response to laws and regulations, changes in agricultural programs and other factors beyond our control. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future raw material availability will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. political, socio-economic and cultural conditions, as well as disruptions caused by terrorist activities or otherwise, could also create additional risks for regulatory compliance. although we have adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure the safety of our imported products, we cannot provide assurance that such events will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. our profitability may suffer as a result of competition in our markets. the food industry is intensely competitive. competition in our product categories is based on price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing and promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. from time to time, we may need to reduce the prices for some of our products to respond to competitive and customer pressures, which may adversely affect our profitability. such pressures could reduce our ability to take appropriate remedial action to address commodity and other cost increases. laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. food products are extensively regulated in most of the countries in which we sell our products. we are subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the growing, sourcing, manufacture, storage, labeling, marketing, advertising and distribution of food products, as well as laws and regulations relating to financial reporting requirements, the environment, competition, anti-corruption, privacy, relations with distributors and retailers, foreign supplier verification, the import and export of products and product ingredients, employment, health and safety, and trade practices. enforcement of existing laws and regulations, changes in legal requirements, and/or evolving interpretations of existing regulatory requirements, may result in increased compliance costs and create other obligations, financial or otherwise, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. increased regulatory scrutiny of, and increased litigation involving, product claims and concerns regarding the attributes of food products and ingredients may increase compliance costs and create other obligations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. governments may also impose requirements and restrictions that impact our business, such as labeling disclosures pertaining to ingredients. for example, "proposition 65, the safe drinking water and toxic enforcement act of 1986," in california exposes all food companies to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products in that state. if we were required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in locations where our products are sold in order to comply with proposition 65, the sales of those products and other products of our company could suffer, not only in those locations but elsewhere. these factors and others could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations may be impaired as a result of disasters, business interruptions or similar events. we could have an interruption in our business, loss of inventory or data, be rendered unable to accept and fulfill customer orders as a result of a natural disaster, catastrophic event, epidemic or computer system failure. natural disasters could include an earthquake, fire, flood, tornado or severe storm. a catastrophic event could include a terrorist attack. an epidemic could affect our operations, major facilities or employees' and customers' health. in addition, some of our inventory and production facilities are located in areas that are susceptible to harsh weather; a major storm, heavy snowfall or other similar event could prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner. production of certain of our products is concentrated in a single manufacturing site. we cannot provide assurance that our disaster recovery plan will address all of the issues we may encounter in the event of a disaster or other unanticipated issue, and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur from any of the foregoing. in the event that a natural disaster, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event were to destroy any part of our facilities or interrupt our operations for any extended period of time, or if harsh weather or health conditions prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. we may not be able to successfully consummate and manage ongoing acquisition, joint venture and divestiture activities which could have an impact on our results. from time to time, we may acquire other businesses and, based on an evaluation of our business portfolio, divest existing businesses. these acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures may present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, increased expenses, assumption of unknown liabilities and indemnities, and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. in addition, we may be required to incur asset impairment charges (including charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets) in connection with acquired businesses which may reduce our profitability. if we are unable to consummate such transactions, or successfully integrate and grow acquisitions and achieve contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, our financial results could be adversely affected. additionally, joint ventures inherently involve a lesser degree of control over business operations, thereby potentially increasing the financial, legal, operational and/or compliance risks. our foreign operations are subject to additional risks. we operate our business and market our products internationally. in fiscal year 2013, approximately 40% of our sales were generated in foreign countries. our foreign operations are subject to additional risks, including fluctuations in currency values, foreign currency exchange controls, discriminatory fiscal policies, compliance with u.s. and foreign laws, enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions and other economic or political uncertainties. beginning in 2011, several countries within the european union experienced sovereign debt and credit issues. this has caused more volatility in the economic environment throughout the european union. additionally, international sales are subject to risks related to imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other similar restrictions. all of these risks could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, which could adversely affect our profitability. fluctuations in foreign currency markets may negatively impact us. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency in the following main areas: cash flows related to raw material purchases; the translation of foreign currency earnings to u.s. dollars; the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. primary exposures include the british pound sterling versus the euro, and the u.s. dollar versus the euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, polish zloty, australian dollar, mexican peso, chinese renminbi, indian rupee and thai baht. we routinely enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to facilitate managing certain of these foreign currency risks. however, these contracts may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to a decline in operating results due to foreign currency exchange changes. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future exchange rate fluctuations will not have a negative impact on our business, financial position or operating results. increases in interest rates may negatively impact us. we had total outstanding short-term borrowings of $212 million at an average interest rate of approximately 0.7% on november 30, 2013. our policy is to manage our interest rate risk by entering into both fixed and variable rate debt arrangements. we also use interest rate swaps to minimize worldwide financing cost and to achieve a desired mix of fixed and variable rate debt. we utilize derivative financial instruments to enhance our ability to manage risk, including interest rate exposures that exist as part of our ongoing business operations. we do not enter into contracts for trading purposes, nor are we a party to any leveraged derivative instruments. our use of derivative financial instruments is monitored through regular communication with senior management and the utilization of written guidelines. however, our use of these instruments may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to changes in interest rates. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future interest rate increases will not have a material negative impact on our business, financial position or operating results. the deterioration of credit and capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding. we rely on our revolving credit facilities, or borrowings backed by these facilities, to fund a portion of our seasonal working capital needs and other general corporate purposes. if any of the banks in the syndicates backing these facilities were unable to perform on its commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could adversely affect funding of seasonal working capital requirements. we engage in regular communication with all of the banks participating in our revolving credit facilities. during these communications none of the banks have indicated that they may be unable to perform on their commitments. in addition, we periodically review our banking and financing relationships, considering the stability of the institutions, pricing we receive on services and other aspects of the relationships. based on these communications and our monitoring activities, we believe the likelihood of one of our banks not performing on its commitment is remote. in addition, global capital markets have experienced volatility that has tightened access to capital markets and other sources of funding. in the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time. our inability to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time period could have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. we face risks associated with certain pension assets and obligations. we hold investments in equity and debt securities in our qualified defined benefit pension plans and in a rabbi trust for our u.s. non-qualified pension plan. deterioration in the value of plan assets resulting from a general financial downturn or otherwise, or an increase in the actuarial valuation of the plans liability due to a low interest rate environment, could cause (or increase) an underfunded status of our defined benefit pension plans, thereby increasing our obligation to make contributions to the plans. an obligation to make contributions to pension plans could reduce the cash available for working capital and other corporate uses, and may have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. the global financial downturn exposes us to credit risks from customers and counterparties. consolidations in some of the industries in which our customers operate have created larger customers, some of which are highly leveraged. in addition, competition has increased with the growth in alternative channels through our customer base. these factors have caused some customers to be less profitable and increased our exposure to credit risk. current credit markets are volatile, and some of our customers and counterparties are highly leveraged. a significant adverse change in the financial and/or credit position of a customer or counterparty could require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer or counterparty and could limit our ability to collect receivables. this could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and liquidity. our operations may be impaired if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or if we are the subject of a data breach or cyber attack. our information technology systems are critically important to operating our business efficiently. we rely on our information technology systems to manage our business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment, and other business processes. the failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies and the loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. furthermore, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to security breaches beyond our control. we invest in security technology to protect our data and business processes against risk of data security breaches and cyber attacks. while we believe these measures are adequate in preventing security breaches and in reducing cybersecurity risks and we have yet to experience any breach, a breach or successful attack could have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation. the global nature of our business and the resolution of tax disputes create volatility in our effective tax rate. as a global business, our tax rate from period to period can be affected by many factors, including changes in tax legislation, our global mix of earnings, the tax characteristics of our income, the timing and recognition of goodwill impairments, acquisitions and dispositions, adjustments to our reserves related to uncertain tax positions, changes in valuation allowances and the portion of the income of foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the u.s. and that will be taxable. in addition, significant judgment is required in determining our effective tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions. we establish accruals for certain tax contingencies when, despite the belief that our tax return positions are fully supported, the positions are uncertain. the tax contingency accruals are adjusted in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of tax audits, case law and emerging legislation. our effective tax rate includes the impact of tax contingency accruals and changes to the accruals, including related interest and penalties, as considered appropriate by management. when particular matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. favorable resolution of such matters could be recognized as a reduction to our effective tax rate in the year of resolution. unfavorable resolution of any particular issue could increase the effective tax rate and may require the use of cash in the year of resolution. climate change may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. unseasonable or unusual weather or long-term climate changes may negatively impact the price or availability of spices, herbs and other raw materials. there is concern that greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. in the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products. our intellectual property rights, and those of our customers, could be infringed, challenged or impaired, and reduce the value of our products and brands or our business with customers. we possess intellectual property rights that are important to our business, and we are provided access by certain customers to particular intellectual property rights belonging to such customers. these intellectual property rights include ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets which are important to our business and relate to some of our products, our packaging, the processes for their production, and the design and operation of equipment used in our businesses. we protect our intellectual property rights, and those of certain customers, globally through a variety of means, including trademarks, copyrights, patents and trade secrets, third-party assignments and nondisclosure agreements, and monitoring of third-party misuses of intellectual property. if we fail to obtain or adequately protect our intellectual property (and the intellectual property of customers to which we have been given access), the value of our products and brands could be reduced and there could be an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. litigation, legal or administrative proceedings could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and damage our reputation. we are party to a variety of legal claims and proceedings in the ordinary course of business. since litigation is inherently uncertain, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves against such claims or proceedings, or that management's assessment of the materiality or immateriality of these matters, including any reserves taken in connection with such matters, will be consistent with the ultimate outcome of such claims or proceedings. in the event that management's assessment of the materiality or immateriality of current claims and proceedings proves inaccurate, or litigation that is material arises in the future, there may be a material adverse effect on our financial condition. any adverse publicity resulting from allegations made in litigation claims or legal or administrative proceedings (even if untrue) may also adversely affect our reputation. these factors and others could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if we are unable to fully realize the benefits from our comprehensive continuous improvement (cci) program, our financial results could be negatively affected. our future success depends in part on our ability to be an efficient producer in a highly competitive industry. any failure by us to achieve our planned cost savings and efficiencies under our cci program, or other similar programs, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk this information is set forth in the market risk sensitivity section of management's discussion and analysis and in note 7 of the financial statements.risk factors the following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. these risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. before you buy our common stock or common stock non-voting, you should know that making such an investment involves risks, including the risks described below. additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to the company or are currently deemed to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations in the future. if any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. in that case, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose part or all of your investment. damage to our reputation or brand name, loss of brand relevance, increase in use of private label or other competitive brands by customers or consumers, or product quality or safety concerns could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. we have many iconic brands with long-standing consumer recognition. our success depends on our ability to maintain our brand image for our existing products, extend our brands to new platforms, and expand our brand image with new product offerings. we continually make efforts to maintain and improve relationships with our customers and consumers and to increase awareness and relevance of our brands through effective marketing and other measures. from time to time, our customers evaluate their mix of product offerings, and consumers have the option to purchase private label or other competitive products instead of our branded products. if a significant portion of our branded business was switched to private label or competitive products, it could have a material negative impact on our consumer business. our reputation for manufacturing high-quality products is widely recognized. in order to safeguard that reputation, we have adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure the safety of our products. a serious breach of our quality assurance or quality control procedures, deterioration of our quality image, impairment of our customer or consumer relationships or failure to adequately protect the relevance of our brands may lead to litigation, customers purchasing from our competitors or consumers purchasing other brands or private label items that may or may not be manufactured by us, any of which could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the food industry generally is subject to risks posed by food spoilage and contamination, product tampering, product recall, import alerts and consumer product liability claims. for instance, we may be required to recall certain of our products should they be mislabeled, contaminated or damaged, and certain of our raw materials could be blocked from entering the country if they were subject to import alerts. we also may become involved in lawsuits and legal proceedings if it is alleged that the consumption of any of our products could cause injury or illness, are mislabeled or fail to meet applicable legal requirements (even if the allegation is untrue). a product recall, import alert or an adverse result in any such litigation, or negative perceptions regarding food products and ingredients, could result in our having to pay fines or damages, incur additional costs or cause customers and consumers in our principal markets to lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain products or ingredients, any of which could have a negative effect on our business or financial results and, depending upon the significance of the affected product, that negative effect could be material to our business or financial results. negative publicity about these concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage customers and consumers from buying our products or cause disruptions in production or distribution of our products and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the rising popularity of social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination (whether or not accurate), and, as a result, negative, inaccurate, or misleading posts or comments on websites may generate adverse publicity that could damage our reputation or brands. customer consolidation, and competitive, economic and other pressures facing our customers, may put pressure on our operating margins and profitability. a number of our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years and consolidation could continue. such consolidation could present a challenge to margin growth and profitability in that it has produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories; resisting price increases; demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products; and shifting shelf space currently used for our products to private label products. the economic and competitive landscape for our customers is constantly changing, and their response to those changes could impact our business. our industrial business may be impacted if the reputation or perception of the customers of our industrial business declines. these factors and others could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the inability to maintain mutually beneficial relationships with large customers could adversely affect our business. we have a number of major customers, including two large customers that, in the aggregate, constituted approximately 22% of our consolidated sales in 2014. the loss of either of these large customers or a material negative change in our relationship with these large customers or other major customers could have an adverse effect on our business. disruption of our supply chain and issues regarding procurement of raw materials may negatively impact us. our purchases of raw materials are subject to fluctuations in market price and availability caused by weather, growing and harvesting conditions, market conditions, governmental actions and other factors beyond our control. the most significant raw materials used by us in our business are pepper, dairy products, rice, capsicums (red pepper and paprika), onion, garlic and wheat flour. while future price movements of raw material costs are uncertain, we seek to mitigate the market price risk in a number of ways, including strategic raw material purchases, purchases of raw material for future delivery, customer price adjustments and cost savings from our comprehensive continuous improvement program. we generally have not used derivatives to manage the volatility related to this risk. to the extent that we have used derivatives for this purpose, it has not been material to our business. any actions we take in response to market price fluctuations may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to changes in raw material prices. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future raw material price fluctuations will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. in addition, we may have very little opportunity to mitigate the risk of availability of certain raw materials due to the effect of weather on crop yield, government actions, political unrest in producing countries, action or inaction by suppliers in response to laws and regulations, changes in agricultural programs and other factors beyond our control. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future raw material availability will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. political, socio-economic and cultural conditions, as well as disruptions caused by terrorist activities or otherwise, could also create additional risks for regulatory compliance. although we have adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure the safety of our imported products, we cannot provide assurance that such events will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. our profitability may suffer as a result of competition in our markets. the food industry is intensely competitive. competition in our product categories is based on price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing and promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. from time to time, we may need to reduce the prices for some of our products to respond to competitive and customer pressures, which may adversely affect our profitability. such pressures could reduce our ability to take appropriate remedial action to address commodity and other cost increases. laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. food products are extensively regulated in most of the countries in which we sell our products. we are subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the growing, sourcing, manufacture, storage, labeling, marketing, advertising and distribution of food products, as well as laws and regulations relating to financial reporting requirements, the environment, competition, anti-corruption, privacy, relations with distributors and retailers, foreign supplier verification, the import and export of products and product ingredients, employment, health and safety, and trade practices. enforcement of existing laws and regulations, changes in legal requirements, and/or evolving interpretations of existing regulatory requirements may result in increased compliance costs and create other obligations, financial or otherwise, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. increased regulatory scrutiny of, and increased litigation involving, product claims and concerns regarding the attributes of food products and ingredients may increase compliance costs and create other obligations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. governments may also impose requirements and restrictions that impact our business, such as labeling disclosures pertaining to ingredients. for example, "proposition 65, the safe drinking water and toxic enforcement act of 1986," in california exposes all food companies to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products in that state. if we were required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in locations where our products are sold in order to comply with proposition 65, the sales of those products and other products of our company could suffer, not only in those locations but elsewhere. these factors and others could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations may be impaired as a result of disasters, business interruptions or similar events. we could have an interruption in our business, loss of inventory or data, or be rendered unable to accept and fulfill customer orders as a result of a natural disaster, catastrophic event, epidemic or computer system failure. natural disasters could include an earthquake, fire, flood, tornado or severe storm. a catastrophic event could include a terrorist attack. an epidemic could affect our operations, major facilities or employees' and consumers' health. in addition, some of our inventory and production facilities are located in areas that are susceptible to harsh weather; a major storm, heavy snowfall or other similar event could prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner. production of certain of our products is concentrated in a single manufacturing site. we cannot provide assurance that our disaster recovery plan will address all of the issues we may encounter in the event of a disaster or other unanticipated issue, and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur from any of the foregoing. in the event that a natural disaster, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event were to destroy any part of our facilities or interrupt our operations for any extended period of time, or if harsh weather or health conditions prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner, our business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. we may not be able to successfully consummate and manage ongoing acquisition, joint venture and divestiture activities which could have an impact on our results. from time to time, we may acquire other businesses and, based on an evaluation of our business portfolio, divest existing businesses. these acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures may present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, increased expenses and raw material costs, assumption of unknown liabilities and indemnities, and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. in addition, we may be required to incur asset impairment charges (including charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets) in connection with acquired businesses which may reduce our profitability. if we are unable to consummate such transactions, or successfully integrate and grow acquisitions and achieve contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, our financial results could be adversely affected. additionally, joint ventures inherently involve a lesser degree of control over business operations, thereby potentially increasing the financial, legal, operational and/or compliance risks. our foreign operations are subject to additional risks. we operate our business and market our products internationally. in fiscal year 2014, approximately 45% of our sales were generated in foreign countries. our foreign operations are subject to additional risks, including fluctuations in currency values, foreign currency exchange controls, discriminatory fiscal policies, compliance with u.s. and foreign laws, enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions and other economic or political uncertainties. beginning in 2011, several countries within the european union experienced sovereign debt and credit issues. this has caused more volatility in the economic environment throughout the european union. additionally, international sales are subject to risks related to imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other similar restrictions. all of these risks could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, which could adversely affect our profitability. fluctuations in foreign currency markets may negatively impact us. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency in the following main areas: cash flows related to raw material purchases; the translation of foreign currency earnings to u.s. dollars; the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. primary exposures include the u.s. dollar versus the euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, polish zloty, australian dollar, mexican peso, chinese renminbi, indian rupee, thai baht and swiss franc, as well as the british pound sterling versus the euro. we routinely enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to facilitate managing certain of these foreign currency risks. however, these contracts may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to a decline in operating results due to foreign currency exchange changes. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future exchange rate fluctuations will not have a negative impact on our business, financial position or operating results. increases in interest rates may negatively impact us. we had total outstanding short-term borrowings of $270 million at an average interest rate of approximately 1.3% on november 30, 2014. our policy is to manage our interest rate risk by entering into both fixed and variable rate debt arrangements. we also use interest rate swaps to minimize worldwide financing cost and to achieve a desired mix of fixed and variable rate debt. we utilize derivative financial instruments to enhance our ability to manage risk, including interest rate exposures that exist as part of our ongoing business operations. we do not enter into contracts for trading purposes, nor are we a party to any leveraged derivative instruments. our use of derivative financial instruments is monitored through regular communication with senior management and the utilization of written guidelines. however, our use of these instruments may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to changes in interest rates. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future interest rate changes will not have a material negative impact on our business, financial position or operating results. the deterioration of credit and capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding. we rely on our revolving credit facilities, or borrowings backed by these facilities, to fund a portion of our seasonal working capital needs and other general corporate purposes. if any of the banks in the syndicates backing these facilities were unable to perform on its commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could adversely affect funding of seasonal working capital requirements. we engage in regular communication with all of the banks participating in our revolving credit facilities. during these communications none of the banks have indicated that they may be unable to perform on their commitments. in addition, we periodically review our banking and financing relationships, considering the stability of the institutions, pricing we receive on services and other aspects of the relationships. based on these communications and our monitoring activities, we believe the likelihood of one of our banks not performing on its commitment is remote. in addition, global capital markets have experienced volatility in the past that has tightened access to capital markets and other sources of funding, and such volatility and tightened access could reoccur in the future. in the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time. our inability to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time period could have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. we face risks associated with certain pension assets and obligations. we hold investments in equity and debt securities in our qualified defined benefit pension plans and in a rabbi trust for our u.s. non-qualified pension plan. deterioration in the value of plan assets resulting from a general financial downturn or otherwise, or an increase in the actuarial valuation of the plans' liability due to a low interest rate environment, could cause (or increase) an underfunded status of our defined benefit pension plans, thereby increasing our obligation to make contributions to the plans. an obligation to make contributions to pension plans could reduce the cash available for working capital and other corporate uses, and may have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. the global financial downturn exposes us to credit risks from customers and counterparties. consolidations in some of the industries in which our customers operate have created larger customers, some of which are highly leveraged. in addition, competition has increased with the growth in alternative channels through our customer base. these factors have caused some customers to be less profitable and increased our exposure to credit risk. current credit markets are volatile, and some of our customers and counterparties are highly leveraged. a significant adverse change in the financial and/or credit position of a customer or counterparty could require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer or counterparty and could limit our ability to collect receivables. this could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and liquidity. our operations may be impaired if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or if we are the subject of a data breach or cyber attack. our information technology systems are critically important to operating our business efficiently. we rely on our information technology systems to manage our business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment, and other business processes. the failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies and the loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. furthermore, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to security breaches beyond our control. we invest in security technology to protect our data and business processes against risk of data security breaches and cyber attacks. while we believe these measures provide some protection against security breaches and mitigate cybersecurity risks, there can be no assurance that security breaches and cyber attacks will not occur. a breach or successful attack could have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation. the global nature of our business and the resolution of tax disputes create volatility in our effective tax rate. as a global business, our tax rate from period to period can be affected by many factors, including changes in tax legislation, our global mix of earnings, the tax characteristics of our income, the timing and recognition of goodwill impairments, acquisitions and dispositions, adjustments to our reserves related to uncertain tax positions, changes in valuation allowances and the portion of the income of foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the u.s. and that will be taxable. in addition, significant judgment is required in determining our effective tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions. we establish accruals for certain tax contingencies when, despite the belief that our tax return positions are appropriately supported, the positions are uncertain. the tax contingency accruals are adjusted in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of tax audits, case law and emerging legislation. our effective tax rate includes the impact of tax contingency accruals and changes to the accruals, including related interest and penalties, as considered appropriate by management. when particular matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. favorable resolution of such matters could be recognized as a reduction to our effective tax rate in the year of resolution. unfavorable resolution of any particular issue could increase the effective tax rate and may require the use of cash in the year of resolution. climate change may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. unseasonable or unusual weather or long-term climate changes may negatively impact the price or availability of spices, herbs and other raw materials. there is concern that greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. in the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity or practices, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products. our intellectual property rights, and those of our customers, could be infringed, challenged or impaired, and reduce the value of our products and brands or our business with customers. we possess intellectual property rights that are important to our business, and we are provided access by certain customers to particular intellectual property rights belonging to such customers. these intellectual property rights include ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets which are important to our business and relate to some of our products, our packaging, the processes for their production, and the design and operation of equipment used in our businesses. we protect our intellectual property rights, and those of certain customers, globally through a variety of means, including trademarks, copyrights, patents and trade secrets, third-party assignments and nondisclosure agreements, and monitoring of third-party misuses of intellectual property. if we fail to obtain or adequately protect our intellectual property (and the intellectual property of customers to which we have been given access), the value of our products and brands could be reduced and there could be an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. litigation, legal or administrative proceedings could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and damage our reputation. we are party to a variety of legal claims and proceedings in the ordinary course of business. since litigation is inherently uncertain, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves against such claims or proceedings, or that management's assessment of the materiality or immateriality of these matters, including any reserves taken in connection with such matters, will be consistent with the ultimate outcome of such claims or proceedings. in the event that management's assessment of the materiality or immateriality of current claims and proceedings proves inaccurate, or litigation that is material arises in the future, there may be a material adverse effect on our financial condition. any adverse publicity resulting from allegations made in litigation claims or legal or administrative proceedings (even if untrue) may also adversely affect our reputation. these factors and others could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. streamlining actions to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness may have a negative effect on employee relations. during 2014 and 2013, we evaluated changes to our organization structure to enable us to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness, and we expect to continue such actions in the future. as a result of such fixed cost reductions and process simplifications or improvements, we may, from time to time, transfer production from one manufacturing facility to another or eliminate certain manufacturing, selling and administrative positions. these actions may result in a deterioration of employee relations at the impacted locations or elsewhere in mccormick. if we are unable to fully realize the benefits from our comprehensive continuous improvement (cci) program, our financial results could be negatively affected. our future success depends in part on our ability to be an efficient producer in a highly competitive industry. any failure by us to achieve our planned cost savings and efficiencies under our cci program, or other similar programs, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk this information is set forth in the market risk sensitivity section of management's discussion and analysis and in note 7 of the financial statements.risk factors the following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. these risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. before you buy our common stock or common stock non-voting, you should know that making such an investment involves risks, including the risks described below. additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or are currently deemed to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations in the future. if any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. in that case, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose part or all of your investment. damage to our reputation or brand name, loss of brand relevance, increase in use of private label or other competitive brands by customers or consumers, or product quality or safety concerns could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. we have many iconic brands with long-standing consumer recognition. our success depends on our ability to maintain our brand image for our existing products, extend our brands to new platforms, and expand our brand image with new product offerings. we continually make efforts to maintain and improve relationships with our customers and consumers and to increase awareness and relevance of our brands through effective marketing and other measures. from time to time, our customers evaluate their mix of product offerings, and consumers have the option to purchase private label or other competitive products instead of our branded products. if a significant portion of our branded business was switched to private label or competitive products, it could have a material negative impact on our consumer segment. our reputation for manufacturing high-quality products is widely recognized. in order to safeguard that reputation, we have adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure the safety of our products. a serious breach of our quality assurance or quality control procedures, deterioration of our quality image, impairment of our customer or consumer relationships or failure to adequately protect the relevance of our brands may lead to litigation, customers purchasing from our competitors or consumers purchasing other brands or private label items that may or may not be manufactured by us, any of which could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the food industry generally is subject to risks posed by food spoilage and contamination, product tampering, product recall, import alerts and consumer product liability claims. for instance, we may be required to recall certain of our products should they be mislabeled, contaminated or damaged, and certain of our raw materials could be blocked from entering the country if they were subject to import alerts. we also may become involved in lawsuits and legal proceedings if it is alleged that the consumption of any of our products could cause injury or illness, or that any of our products are mislabeled or fail to meet applicable legal requirements (even if the allegation is untrue). a product recall, import alert or an adverse result in any such litigation, or negative perceptions regarding food products and ingredients, could result in our having to pay fines or damages, incur additional costs or cause customers and consumers in our principal markets to lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain products or ingredients, any of which could have a negative effect on our business or financial results and, depending upon the significance of the affected product, that negative effect could be material to our business or financial results. negative publicity about these concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage customers and consumers from buying our products or cause disruptions in production or distribution of our products and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the rising popularity of social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination (whether or not accurate), and, as a result, negative, inaccurate, or misleading posts or comments on websites may generate adverse publicity that could damage our reputation or brands. customer consolidation, and competitive, economic and other pressures facing our customers, may put pressure on our operating margins and profitability. a number of our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years and consolidation could continue. such consolidation could present a challenge to margin growth and profitability in that it has produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories; resisting price increases; demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products; and shifting shelf space currently used for our products to private label and other competitive products. the economic and competitive landscape for our customers is constantly changing, and their response to those changes could impact our business. our industrial segment may be impacted if the reputation or perception of the customers of our industrial segment declines. these factors and others could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the inability to maintain mutually beneficial relationships with large customers could adversely affect our business. we have a number of major customers, including two large customers that, in the aggregate, constituted approximately 22% of our consolidated sales in 2015. the loss of either of these large customers or a material negative change in our relationship with these large customers or other major customers could have an adverse effect on our business. disruption of our supply chain and issues regarding procurement of raw materials may negatively impact us. our purchases of raw materials are subject to fluctuations in market price and availability caused by weather, growing and harvesting conditions, market conditions, governmental actions and other factors beyond our control. the most significant raw materials used by us in our business are pepper, dairy products, capsicums (red peppers and paprika), rice, onion, wheat flour and garlic. while future price movements of raw material costs are uncertain, we seek to mitigate the market price risk in a number of ways, including strategic raw material purchases, purchases of raw material for future delivery, customer price adjustments and cost savings from our comprehensive continuous improvement program. we generally have not used derivatives to manage the volatility related to this risk. to the extent that we have used derivatives for this purpose, it has not been material to our business. any actions we take in response to market price fluctuations may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to changes in raw material prices. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future raw material price fluctuations will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. in addition, we may have very little opportunity to mitigate the risk of availability of certain raw materials due to the effect of weather on crop yield, government actions, political unrest in producing countries, action or inaction by suppliers in response to laws and regulations, changes in agricultural programs and other factors beyond our control. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future raw material availability will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. political, socio-economic and cultural conditions, as well as disruptions caused by terrorist activities or otherwise, could also create additional risks for regulatory compliance. although we have adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure the safety of our imported products, we cannot provide assurance that such events will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. our profitability may suffer as a result of competition in our markets. the food industry is intensely competitive. competition in our product categories is based on price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing and promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. from time to time, we may need to reduce the prices for some of our products to respond to competitive and customer pressures, which may adversely affect our profitability. such pressures could reduce our ability to take appropriate remedial action to address commodity and other cost increases. laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. food products are extensively regulated in most of the countries in which we sell our products. we are subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the growing, sourcing, manufacture, storage, labeling, marketing, advertising and distribution of food products, as well as laws and regulations relating to financial reporting requirements, the environment, competition, anti-corruption, privacy, relations with distributors and retailers, foreign supplier verification, the import and export of products and product ingredients, employment, health and safety, and trade practices. enforcement of existing laws and regulations, changes in legal requirements, and/or evolving interpretations of existing regulatory requirements may result in increased compliance costs and create other obligations, financial or otherwise, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. increased regulatory scrutiny of, and increased litigation involving, product claims and concerns regarding the attributes of food products and ingredients may increase compliance costs and create other obligations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. governments may also impose requirements and restrictions that impact our business, such as labeling disclosures pertaining to ingredients. for example, "proposition 65, the safe drinking water and toxic enforcement act of 1986," in california exposes all food companies to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products in that state. if we were required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in locations where our products are sold in order to comply with proposition 65, the sales of those products and other products of our company could suffer, not only in those locations but elsewhere. these factors and others could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations may be impaired as a result of disasters, business interruptions or similar events. we could have an interruption in our business, loss of inventory or data, or be rendered unable to accept and fulfill customer orders as a result of a natural disaster, catastrophic event, epidemic or computer system failure. natural disasters could include an earthquake, fire, flood, tornado or severe storm. a catastrophic event could include a terrorist attack. an epidemic could affect our operations, major facilities or employees' and consumers' health. in addition, some of our inventory and production facilities are located in areas that are susceptible to harsh weather; a major storm, heavy snowfall or other similar event could prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner. production of certain of our products is concentrated in a single manufacturing site. we cannot provide assurance that our disaster recovery plan will address all of the issues we may encounter in the event of a disaster or other unanticipated issue, and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur from any of the foregoing. in the event that a natural disaster, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event were to destroy any part of our facilities or interrupt our operations for any extended period of time, or if harsh weather or health conditions prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner, our business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. we may not be able to successfully consummate and manage ongoing acquisition, joint venture and divestiture activities which could have an impact on our results. from time to time, we may acquire other businesses and, based on an evaluation of our business portfolio, divest existing businesses. these acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures may present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, increased expenses and raw material costs, assumption of unknown liabilities and indemnities, and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. in addition, we may be required to incur asset impairment charges (including charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets) in connection with acquired businesses which may reduce our profitability. if we are unable to consummate such transactions, or successfully integrate and grow acquisitions and achieve contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, our financial results could be adversely affected. additionally, joint ventures inherently involve a lesser degree of control over business operations, thereby potentially increasing the financial, legal, operational and/or compliance risks. our foreign operations are subject to additional risks. we operate our business and market our products internationally. in fiscal year 2015, 43% of our sales were generated in foreign countries. our foreign operations are subject to additional risks, including fluctuations in currency values, foreign currency exchange controls, discriminatory fiscal policies, compliance with u.s. and foreign laws, enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions and other economic or political uncertainties. beginning in 2011, several countries within the european union experienced sovereign debt and credit issues. this has caused more volatility in the economic environment throughout the european union. additionally, international sales are subject to risks related to imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other similar restrictions. all of these risks could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, which could adversely affect our profitability. fluctuations in foreign currency markets may negatively impact us. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency in the following main areas: cash flows related to raw material purchases; the translation of foreign currency earnings to u.s. dollars; the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. primary exposures include the u.s. dollar versus the euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, polish zloty, australian dollar, mexican peso, chinese renminbi, indian rupee, thai baht and swiss franc, as well as the british pound sterling versus the euro. we routinely enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to facilitate managing certain of these foreign currency risks. however, these contracts may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to a decline in operating results due to foreign currency exchange changes. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future exchange rate fluctuations will not have a negative impact on our business, financial position or operating results. increases in interest rates may negatively impact us. we had total outstanding short-term borrowings of $140 million at an average interest rate of approximately 2.2% on november 30, 2015. our policy is to manage our interest rate risk by entering into both fixed and variable rate debt arrangements. we also use interest rate swaps to minimize worldwide financing cost and to achieve a desired mix of fixed and variable rate debt. we utilize derivative financial instruments to enhance our ability to manage risk, including interest rate exposures that exist as part of our ongoing business operations. we do not enter into contracts for trading purposes, nor are we a party to any leveraged derivative instruments. our use of derivative financial instruments is monitored through regular communication with senior management and the utilization of written guidelines. however, our use of these instruments may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to changes in interest rates. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future interest rate changes will not have a material negative impact on our business, financial position or operating results. the deterioration of credit and capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding. we rely on our revolving credit facilities, or borrowings backed by these facilities, to fund a portion of our seasonal working capital needs and other general corporate purposes. if any of the banks in the syndicates backing these facilities were unable to perform on its commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could adversely affect funding of seasonal working capital requirements. we engage in regular communication with all of the banks participating in our revolving credit facilities. during these communications none of the banks have indicated that they may be unable to perform on their commitments. in addition, we periodically review our banking and financing relationships, considering the stability of the institutions, pricing we receive on services and other aspects of the relationships. based on these communications and our monitoring activities, we believe the likelihood of one of our banks not performing on its commitment is remote. in addition, global capital markets have experienced volatility in the past that has tightened access to capital markets and other sources of funding, and such volatility and tightened access could reoccur in the future. in the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time. our inability to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time period could have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. we face risks associated with certain pension assets and obligations. we hold investments in equity and debt securities in our qualified defined benefit pension plans and in a rabbi trust for our u.s. non-qualified pension plan. deterioration in the value of plan assets resulting from a general financial downturn or otherwise, or an increase in the actuarial valuation of the plans' liability due to a low interest rate environment, could cause (or increase) an underfunded status of our defined benefit pension plans, thereby increasing our obligation to make contributions to the plans. an obligation to make contributions to pension plans could reduce the cash available for working capital and other corporate uses, and may have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. the global financial downturn exposes us to credit risks from customers and counterparties. consolidations in some of the industries in which our customers operate have created larger customers, some of which are highly leveraged. in addition, competition has increased with the growth in alternative channels through our customer base. these factors have caused some customers to be less profitable and increased our exposure to credit risk. current credit markets are volatile, and some of our customers and counterparties are highly leveraged. a significant adverse change in the financial and/or credit position of a customer or counterparty could require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer or counterparty and could limit our ability to collect receivables. this could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and liquidity. our operations and reputation may be impaired if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or if we are the subject of a data breach or cyber attack. our information technology systems are critically important to operating our business efficiently. we rely on our information technology systems to manage our business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment, and other business processes. the failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies and the loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. furthermore, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to security breaches beyond our control, including those involving cyber attacks using viruses, worms or other destructive software, process breakdowns, or other malicious activities, or any combination of the foregoing. such breaches could result in unauthorized access to information including customer, consumer or other company confidential data. we invest in security technology and design our business processes to mitigate the risk of such breaches. while we believe these measures are generally effective, there can be no assurance that security breaches will not occur. moreover, the development and maintenance of these measures requires continuous monitoring as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures evolve. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, cybersecurity threats and incidents, none of which has been material to us to date. however, a successful breach or attack could have a material, negative impact on our operations or business reputation and subject us to consequences such as litigation, regulatory enforcement proceedings and direct costs associated with incident response. the global nature of our business and the resolution of tax disputes create volatility in our effective tax rate. as a global business, our tax rate from period to period can be affected by many factors, including changes in tax legislation, our global mix of earnings, the tax characteristics of our income, the timing and recognition of goodwill impairments, acquisitions and dispositions, adjustments to our reserves related to uncertain tax positions, changes in valuation allowances and the portion of the income of foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the u.s. and that will be taxable. in addition, significant judgment is required in determining our effective tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions. we establish accruals for certain tax contingencies when, despite the belief that our tax return positions are appropriately supported, the positions are uncertain. the tax contingency accruals are adjusted in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of tax audits, case law and emerging legislation. our effective tax rate includes the impact of tax contingency accruals and changes to the accruals, including related interest and penalties, as considered appropriate by management. when particular matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. favorable resolution of such matters could be recognized as a reduction to our effective tax rate in the year of resolution. unfavorable resolution of any particular issue could increase the effective tax rate and may require the use of cash in the year of resolution. climate change may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. unseasonable or unusual weather or long-term climate changes may negatively impact the price or availability of spices, herbs and other raw materials. there is concern that greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. in the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity or practices, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products. in addition, such climate change may result in modifications to the eating preferences of the ultimate consumers of certain of our products, which may also unfavorably impact our sales and profitability. our intellectual property rights, and those of our customers, could be infringed, challenged or impaired, and reduce the value of our products and brands or our business with customers. we possess intellectual property rights that are important to our business, and we are provided access by certain customers to particular intellectual property rights belonging to such customers. these intellectual property rights include ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets which are important to our business and relate to some of our products, our packaging, the processes for their production, and the design and operation of equipment used in our businesses. we protect our intellectual property rights, and those of certain customers, globally through a variety of means, including trademarks, copyrights, patents and trade secrets, third-party assignments and nondisclosure agreements, and monitoring of third-party misuses of intellectual property. if we fail to obtain or adequately protect our intellectual property (and the intellectual property of customers to which we have been given access), the value of our products and brands could be reduced and there could be an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. litigation, legal or administrative proceedings could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and damage our reputation. we are party to a variety of legal claims and proceedings in the ordinary course of business. since litigation is inherently uncertain, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves against such claims or proceedings, or that management's assessment of the materiality or immateriality of these matters, including any reserves taken in connection with such matters, will be consistent with the ultimate outcome of such claims or proceedings. in the event that management's assessment of the materiality or immateriality of current claims and proceedings proves inaccurate, or litigation that is material arises in the future, there may be a material adverse effect on our financial condition. any adverse publicity resulting from allegations made in litigation claims or legal or administrative proceedings (even if untrue) may also adversely affect our reputation. these factors and others could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. streamlining actions to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness may have a negative effect on employee relations. during the last three years, we implemented changes to our organization structure to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness, and we expect to continue to evaluate such actions in the future. as a result of such fixed cost reductions and process simplifications or improvements, we may, from time to time, transfer production from one manufacturing facility to another or eliminate certain manufacturing, selling and administrative positions. these actions may result in a deterioration of employee relations at the impacted locations or elsewhere in mccormick. if we are unable to fully realize the benefits from our comprehensive continuous improvement (cci) program, our financial results could be negatively affected. our future success depends in part on our ability to be an efficient producer in a highly competitive industry. any failure by us to achieve our planned cost savings and efficiencies under our cci program, or other similar programs, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk this information is set forth in the market risk sensitivity section of management's discussion and analysis and in note 7 of the financial statements.risk factors the following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. these risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. before you buy our common stock or common stock non-voting, you should know that making such an investment involves risks, including the risks described below. additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or are currently deemed to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations in the future. if any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. in that case, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose part or all of your investment. damage to our reputation or brand name, loss of brand relevance, increase in use of private label or other competitive brands by customers or consumers, or product quality or safety concerns could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. we have many iconic brands with long-standing consumer recognition. our success depends on our ability to maintain our brand image for our existing products, extend our brands to new platforms, and expand our brand image with new product offerings. we continually make efforts to maintain and improve relationships with our customers and consumers and to increase awareness and relevance of our brands through effective marketing and other measures. from time to time, our customers evaluate their mix of product offerings, and consumers have the option to purchase private label or other competitive products instead of our branded products. if a significant portion of our branded business was switched to private label or competitive products, it could have a material negative impact on our consumer segment. our reputation for manufacturing high-quality products is widely recognized. in order to safeguard that reputation, we have adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure the safety of our products. a serious breach of our quality assurance or quality control procedures, deterioration of our quality image, impairment of our customer or consumer relationships or failure to adequately protect the relevance of our brands may lead to litigation, customers purchasing from our competitors or consumers purchasing other brands or private label items that may or may not be manufactured by us, any of which could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the food industry generally is subject to risks posed by food spoilage and contamination, product tampering, product recall, import alerts and consumer product liability claims. for instance, we may be required to recall certain of our products should they be mislabeled, contaminated or damaged, and certain of our raw materials could be blocked from entering the country if they were subject to import alerts. we also may become involved in lawsuits and legal proceedings if it is alleged that the consumption of any of our products could cause injury or illness, or that any of our products are mislabeled or fail to meet applicable legal requirements (even if the allegation is untrue). a product recall, import alert or an adverse result in any such litigation, or negative perceptions regarding food products and ingredients, could result in our having to pay fines or damages, incur additional costs or cause customers and consumers in our principal markets to lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain products or ingredients, any of which could have a negative effect on our business or financial results and, depending upon the significance of the affected product, that negative effect could be material to our business or financial results. negative publicity about these concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage customers and consumers from buying our products or cause disruptions in production or distribution of our products and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the rising popularity of social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination (whether or not accurate), and, as a result, negative, inaccurate, or misleading posts or comments on websites may generate adverse publicity that could damage our reputation or brands. customer consolidation, and competitive, economic and other pressures facing our customers, may put pressure on our operating margins and profitability. a number of our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years and consolidation could continue. such consolidation could present a challenge to margin growth and profitability in that it has produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories; resisting price increases; demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products; and shifting shelf space currently used for our products to private label and other competitive products. the economic and competitive landscape for our customers is constantly changing, such as the emergence of new sales channels like e-commerce, and our customers' responses to those changes could impact our business. our industrial segment may be impacted if the reputation or perception of the customers of our industrial segment declines. these factors and others could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the inability to maintain mutually beneficial relationships with large customers could adversely affect our business. we have a number of major customers, including two large customers that, in the aggregate, constituted approximately 22% of our consolidated sales in 2016 . the loss of either of these large customers or a material negative change in our relationship with these large customers or other major customers could have an adverse effect on our business. disruption of our supply chain and issues regarding procurement of raw materials may negatively impact us. our purchases of raw materials are subject to fluctuations in market price and availability caused by weather, growing and harvesting conditions, market conditions, governmental actions and other factors beyond our control. the most significant raw materials used by us in our business are pepper, dairy products, capsicums (red peppers and paprika), garlic, onion, rice, wheat flour and vanilla. while future price movements of raw material costs are uncertain, we seek to mitigate the market price risk in a number of ways, including strategic raw material purchases, purchases of raw material for future delivery, customer price adjustments and cost savings from our cci program. we generally have not used derivatives to manage the volatility related to this risk. to the extent that we have used derivatives for this purpose, it has not been material to our business. any actions we take in response to market price fluctuations may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to changes in raw material prices. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future raw material price fluctuations will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. in addition, we may have very little opportunity to mitigate the risk of availability of certain raw materials due to the effect of weather on crop yield, government actions, political unrest in producing countries, action or inaction by suppliers in response to laws and regulations, changes in agricultural programs and other factors beyond our control. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future raw material availability will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. political, socio-economic and cultural conditions, as well as disruptions caused by terrorist activities or otherwise, could also create additional risks for regulatory compliance. although we have adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure the safety of our imported products, we cannot provide assurance that such events will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. our profitability may suffer as a result of competition in our markets. the food industry is intensely competitive. competition in our product categories is based on price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing and promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. from time to time, we may need to reduce the prices for some of our products to respond to competitive and customer pressures, which may adversely affect our profitability. such pressures could reduce our ability to take appropriate remedial action to address commodity and other cost increases. laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. food products are extensively regulated in most of the countries in which we sell our products. we are subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the growing, sourcing, manufacturing, storage, labeling, marketing, advertising and distribution of food products, as well as laws and regulations relating to financial reporting requirements, the environment, competition, anti-corruption, privacy, relations with distributors and retailers, foreign supplier verification, the import and export of products and product ingredients, employment, health and safety, and trade practices. enforcement of existing laws and regulations, changes in legal requirements, and/or evolving interpretations of existing regulatory requirements may result in increased compliance costs and create other obligations, financial or otherwise, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. increased regulatory scrutiny of, and increased litigation involving, product claims and concerns regarding the attributes of food products and ingredients may increase compliance costs and create other obligations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. governments may also impose requirements and restrictions that impact our business, such as labeling disclosures pertaining to ingredients. for example, "proposition 65, the safe drinking water and toxic enforcement act of 1986," in california exposes all food companies to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products in that state. if we were required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in locations where our products are sold in order to comply with proposition 65, the sales of those products and other products of our company could suffer, not only in those locations but elsewhere. these factors and others could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations may be impaired as a result of disasters, business interruptions or similar events. we could have an interruption in our business, loss of inventory or data, or be rendered unable to accept and fulfill customer orders as a result of a natural disaster, catastrophic event, epidemic or computer system failure. natural disasters could include an earthquake, fire, flood, tornado or severe storm. a catastrophic event could include a terrorist attack. an epidemic could affect our operations, major facilities or employees' and consumers' health. in addition, some of our inventory and production facilities are located in areas that are susceptible to harsh weather; a major storm, heavy snowfall or other similar event could prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner. production of certain of our products is concentrated in a single manufacturing site. we cannot provide assurance that our disaster recovery plan will address all of the issues we may encounter in the event of a disaster or other unanticipated issue, and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur from any of the foregoing. in the event that a natural disaster, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event were to destroy any part of our facilities or interrupt our operations for any extended period of time, or if harsh weather or health conditions prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner, our business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. we may not be able to successfully consummate and manage ongoing acquisition, joint venture and divestiture activities which could have an impact on our results. from time to time, we may acquire other businesses and, based on an evaluation of our business portfolio, divest existing businesses. these acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures may present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, increased expenses and raw material costs, assumption of unknown liabilities and indemnities, and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. in addition, we may be required to incur asset impairment charges (including charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets) in connection with acquired businesses which may reduce our profitability. if we are unable to consummate such transactions, or successfully integrate and grow acquisitions and achieve contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, our financial results could be adversely affected. additionally, joint ventures inherently involve a lesser degree of control over business operations, thereby potentially increasing the financial, legal, operational, and/or compliance risks. our foreign and cross-border operations are subject to additional risks. we operate our business and market our products internationally. in fiscal year 2016 , 42% of our sales were generated in foreign countries. our foreign operations are subject to additional risks, including fluctuations in currency values, foreign currency exchange controls, discriminatory fiscal policies, compliance with u.s. and foreign laws, enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions and other economic or political uncertainties. several countries within the european union continue to experience sovereign debt and credit issues which causes more volatility in the economic environment throughout the european union and the united kingdom (u.k.). additionally, international sales, together with finished goods and raw materials imported into the u.s., are subject to risks related to fundamental changes to tax laws as well as the imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other similar restrictions. all of these risks could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, which could adversely affect our profitability. fluctuations in foreign currency markets may negatively impact us. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency in the following main areas: cash flows related to raw material purchases; the translation of foreign currency earnings to u.s. dollars; the effects of foreign currency on loans between subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates and on cash flows related to repatriation of earnings of unconsolidated affiliates. primary exposures include the u.s. dollar versus the euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, polish zloty, australian dollar, mexican peso, chinese renminbi, indian rupee and thai baht, as well as the euro versus the british pound sterling, australian dollar and swiss franc. we routinely enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to facilitate managing certain of these foreign currency risks. however, these contracts may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to a decline in operating results due to foreign currency exchange changes. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future exchange rate fluctuations will not have a negative impact on our business, financial position or operating results. the decision by british voters to exit the european union may negatively impact our operations. the june 2016 referendum by british voters to exit the european union ( brexit ) adversely impacted global markets and resulted in a sharp decline in the value of the british pound, as compared to the u.s. dollar and other currencies. as the u.k. negotiates its exit from the european union, volatility in exchange rates and in u.k. interest rates may continue. in the near term, a weaker british pound compared to the u.s. dollar during a reporting period causes local currency results of our u.k. operations to be translated into fewer u.s. dollars; a weaker british pound compared to other currencies increases the cost of goods imported into our u.k. operations and may decrease the profitability of our u.k. operations; and a higher u.k. interest rate may have a dampening effect on the u.k. economy. in the longer term, any impact from brexit on our u.k. operations will depend, in part, on the outcome of tariff, trade, regulatory and other negotiations. increases in interest rates may negatively impact us. we had total outstanding short-term borrowings of $390 million at an average interest rate of approximately 1.4% on november 30, 2016 . our policy is to manage our interest rate risk by entering into both fixed and variable rate debt arrangements. we also use interest rate swaps to minimize worldwide financing cost and to achieve a desired mix of fixed and variable rate debt. we utilize derivative financial instruments to enhance our ability to manage risk, including interest rate exposures that exist as part of our ongoing business operations. we do not enter into contracts for trading purposes, nor are we a party to any leveraged derivative instruments. our use of derivative financial instruments is monitored through regular communication with senior management and the utilization of written guidelines. however, our use of these instruments may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to changes in interest rates. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future interest rate changes will not have a material negative impact on our business, financial position or operating results. the deterioration of credit and capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding. we rely on our revolving credit facilities, or borrowings backed by these facilities, to fund a portion of our seasonal working capital needs and other general corporate purposes. if any of the banks in the syndicates backing these facilities were unable to perform on its commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could adversely affect funding of seasonal working capital requirements. we engage in regular communication with all of the banks participating in our revolving credit facilities. during these communications none of the banks have indicated that they may be unable to perform on their commitments. in addition, we periodically review our banking and financing relationships, considering the stability of the institutions, pricing we receive on services and other aspects of the relationships. based on these communications and our monitoring activities, we believe the likelihood of one of our banks not performing on its commitment is remote. in addition, global capital markets have experienced volatility in the past that has tightened access to capital markets and other sources of funding, and such volatility and tightened access could reoccur in the future. in the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time period. our inability to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time period could have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. we face risks associated with certain pension assets and obligations. we hold investments in equity and debt securities in our qualified defined benefit pension plans and in a rabbi trust for our u.s. non-qualified pension plan. deterioration in the value of plan assets resulting from a general financial downturn or otherwise, or an increase in the actuarial valuation of the plans' liability due to a low interest rate environment, could cause (or increase) an underfunded status of our defined benefit pension plans, thereby increasing our obligation to make contributions to the plans. an obligation to make contributions to pension plans could reduce the cash available for working capital and other corporate uses, and may have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. uncertain global economic conditions expose us to credit risks from customers and counterparties. consolidations in some of the industries in which our customers operate have created larger customers, some of which are highly leveraged. in addition, competition has increased with the growth in alternative channels through our customer base. these factors have caused some customers to be less profitable and increased our exposure to credit risk. current credit markets are volatile, and some of our customers and counterparties are highly leveraged. a significant adverse change in the financial and/or credit position of a customer or counterparty could require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer or counterparty and could limit our ability to collect receivables. this could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and liquidity. our operations and reputation may be impaired if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or if we are the subject of a data breach or cyber attack. our information technology systems are critically important to operating our business efficiently. we rely on our information technology systems to manage our business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment, and other business processes. the failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies and the loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. furthermore, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to security breaches beyond our control, including those involving cyber attacks using viruses, worms or other destructive software, process breakdowns, or other malicious activities, or any combination of the foregoing. such breaches could result in unauthorized access to information including customer, consumer or other company confidential data. we invest in security technology and design our business processes to mitigate the risk of such breaches. while we believe these measures are generally effective, there can be no assurance that security breaches will not occur. moreover, the development and maintenance of these measures requires continuous monitoring as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures evolve. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, cybersecurity threats and incidents, none of which has been material to us to date. however, a successful breach or attack could have a material, negative impact on our operations or business reputation and subject us to consequences such as litigation, regulatory enforcement proceedings and direct costs associated with incident response. the global nature of our business and the resolution of tax disputes create volatility in our effective tax rate. as a global business, our tax rate from period to period can be affected by many factors, including changes in tax legislation, our global mix of earnings, the tax characteristics of our income, the timing and recognition of goodwill impairments, acquisitions and dispositions, adjustments to our reserves related to uncertain tax positions, changes in valuation allowances and the portion of the income of foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the u.s. and that will be taxable. in addition, significant judgment is required in determining our effective tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions. we establish accruals for certain tax contingencies when, despite the belief that our tax return positions are appropriately supported, the positions are uncertain. the tax contingency accruals are adjusted in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of tax audits, case law and emerging legislation. our effective tax rate includes the impact of tax contingency accruals and changes to the accruals, including related interest and penalties, as considered appropriate by management. when particular matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. favorable resolution of such matters could be recognized as a reduction to our effective tax rate in the year of resolution. unfavorable resolution of any particular issue could increase the effective tax rate and may require the use of cash in the year of resolution. climate change may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. unseasonable or unusual weather or long-term climate changes may negatively impact the price or availability of spices, herbs and other raw materials. there is concern that greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. in the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity or practices, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products. in addition, such climate change may result in modifications to the eating preferences of the ultimate consumers of certain of our products, which may also unfavorably impact our sales and profitability. our intellectual property rights, and those of our customers, could be infringed, challenged or impaired, and reduce the value of our products and brands or our business with customers. we possess intellectual property rights that are important to our business, and we are provided access by certain customers to particular intellectual property rights belonging to such customers. these intellectual property rights include ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets which are important to our business and relate to some of our products, our packaging, the processes for their production, and the design and operation of equipment used in our businesses. we protect our intellectual property rights, and those of certain customers, globally through a variety of means, including trademarks, copyrights, patents and trade secrets, third-party assignments and nondisclosure agreements, and monitoring of third-party misuses of intellectual property. if we fail to obtain or adequately protect our intellectual property (and the intellectual property of customers to which we have been given access), the value of our products and brands could be reduced and there could be an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. litigation, legal or administrative proceedings could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and damage our reputation. we are party to a variety of legal claims and proceedings in the ordinary course of business. since litigation is inherently uncertain, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves against such claims or proceedings, or that management's assessment of the materiality or immateriality of these matters, including any reserves taken in connection with such matters, will be consistent with the ultimate outcome of such claims or proceedings. in the event that management's assessment of the materiality or immateriality of current claims and proceedings proves inaccurate, or litigation that is material arises in the future, there may be a material adverse effect on our financial condition. any adverse publicity resulting from allegations made in litigation claims or legal or administrative proceedings (even if untrue) may also adversely affect our reputation. these factors and others could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or damage our reputation. streamlining actions to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness may have a negative effect on employee relations. we regularly evaluate whether to implement changes to our organization structure to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness, and we expect to continue to evaluate such actions in the future. from time to time, those changes are of such significance that we may transfer production from one manufacturing facility to another, eliminate certain manufacturing, selling and administrative positions, and exit certain businesses or lines of business. these actions may result in a deterioration of employee relations at the impacted locations or elsewhere in mccormick. if we are unable to fully realize the benefits from our cci program, our financial results could be negatively affected. our future success depends in part on our ability to be an efficient producer in a highly competitive industry. any failure by us to achieve our planned cost savings and efficiencies under our cci program, or other similar programs, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk this information is set forth in the market risk sensitivity section of management's discussion and analysis and in note 7 of the financial statements.risk factors the following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. these risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. before you buy our common stock or common stock non-voting, you should know that making such an investment involves risks, including the risks described below. additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or are currently deemed to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations in the future. if any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. in that case, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose part or all of your investment. damage to our reputation or brand name, loss of brand relevance, increase in use of private label or other competitive brands by customers or consumers, or product quality or safety concerns could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. we have many iconic brands with long-standing consumer recognition. our success depends on our ability to maintain our brand image for our existing products, extend our brands to new platforms, and expand our brand image with new product offerings. we continually make efforts to maintain and improve relationships with our customers and consumers and to increase awareness and relevance of our brands through effective marketing and other measures. from time to time, our customers evaluate their mix of product offerings, and consumers have the option to purchase private label or other competitive products instead of our branded products. if a significant portion of our branded business was switched to private label or competitive products, it could have a material negative impact on our consumer segment. our reputation for manufacturing high-quality products is widely recognized. in order to safeguard that reputation, we have adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure the safety of our products. a serious breach of our quality assurance or quality control procedures, deterioration of our quality image, impairment of our customer or consumer relationships or failure to adequately protect the relevance of our brands may lead to litigation, customers purchasing from our competitors or consumers purchasing other brands or private label items that may or may not be manufactured by us, any of which could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the food industry generally is subject to risks posed by food spoilage and contamination, product tampering, product recall, import alerts and consumer product liability claims. for instance, we may be required to recall certain of our products should they be mislabeled, contaminated or damaged, and certain of our raw materials could be blocked from entering the country if they were subject to import alerts. we also may become involved in lawsuits and legal proceedings if it is alleged that the consumption of any of our products could cause injury or illness, or that any of our products are mislabeled or fail to meet applicable legal requirements (even if the allegation is untrue). a product recall, import alert or an adverse result in any such litigation, or negative perceptions regarding food products and ingredients, could result in our having to pay fines or damages, incur additional costs or cause customers and consumers in our principal markets to lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain products or ingredients, any of which could have a negative effect on our business or financial results and, depending upon the significance of the affected product, that negative effect could be material to our business or financial results. negative publicity about these concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage customers and consumers from buying our products or cause disruptions in production or distribution of our products and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the rising popularity of social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination (whether or not accurate), and, as a result, negative, inaccurate, or misleading posts or comments on websites may generate adverse publicity that could damage our reputation or brands. customer consolidation, and competitive, economic and other pressures facing our customers, may put pressure on our operating margins and profitability. a number of our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years and consolidation could continue. such consolidation could present a challenge to margin growth and profitability in that it has produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories; resisting price increases; demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products; and shifting shelf space currently used for our products to private label and other competitive products. the economic and competitive landscape for our customers is constantly changing, such as the emergence of new sales channels like e-commerce, and our customers' responses to those changes could impact our business. our industrial segment may be impacted if the reputation or perception of the customers of our industrial segment declines. these factors and others could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the inability to maintain mutually beneficial relationships with large customers could adversely affect our business. we have a number of major customers, including two large customers that, in the aggregate, constituted approximately 22% of our consolidated sales in 2017 . the loss of either of these large customers or a material negative change in our relationship with these large customers or other major customers could have an adverse effect on our business. disruption of our supply chain and issues regarding procurement of raw materials may negatively impact us. our purchases of raw materials are subject to fluctuations in market price and availability caused by weather, growing and harvesting conditions, market conditions, governmental actions and other factors beyond our control. the most significant raw materials used by us in our business are pepper, dairy products, garlic, vanilla, capsicums (red peppers and paprika), onion, wheat flour and rice. while future price movements of raw material costs are uncertain, we seek to mitigate the market price risk in a number of ways, including strategic raw material purchases, purchases of raw material for future delivery, customer price adjustments and cost savings from our cci program. we generally have not used derivatives to manage the volatility related to this risk. to the extent that we have used derivatives for this purpose, it has not been material to our business. any actions we take in response to market price fluctuations may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to changes in raw material prices. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future raw material price fluctuations will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. in addition, we may have very little opportunity to mitigate the risk of availability of certain raw materials due to the effect of weather on crop yield, government actions, political unrest in producing countries, action or inaction by suppliers in response to laws and regulations, changes in agricultural programs and other factors beyond our control. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future raw material availability will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. political, socio-economic and cultural conditions, as well as disruptions caused by terrorist activities or otherwise, could also create additional risks for regulatory compliance. although we have adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure the safety of our imported products, we cannot provide assurance that such events will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. our profitability may suffer as a result of competition in our markets. the food industry is intensely competitive. competition in our product categories is based on price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing and promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. from time to time, we may need to reduce the prices for some of our products to respond to competitive and customer pressures, which may adversely affect our profitability. such pressures could reduce our ability to take appropriate remedial action to address commodity and other cost increases. laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. food products are extensively regulated in most of the countries in which we sell our products. we are subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the growing, sourcing, manufacturing, storage, labeling, marketing, advertising and distribution of food products, as well as laws and regulations relating to financial reporting requirements, the environment, competition, anti-corruption, privacy, relations with distributors and retailers, foreign supplier verification, the import and export of products and product ingredients, employment, health and safety, and trade practices. enforcement of existing laws and regulations, changes in legal requirements, and/or evolving interpretations of existing regulatory requirements may result in increased compliance costs and create other obligations, financial or otherwise, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. increased regulatory scrutiny of, and increased litigation involving, product claims and concerns regarding the attributes of food products and ingredients may increase compliance costs and create other obligations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. governments may also impose requirements and restrictions that impact our business, such as labeling disclosures pertaining to ingredients. for example, "proposition 65, the safe drinking water and toxic enforcement act of 1986," in california exposes all food companies to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products in that state. if we were required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in locations where our products are sold in order to comply with proposition 65, the sales of those products and other products of our company could suffer, not only in those locations but elsewhere. these factors and others could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations may be impaired as a result of disasters, business interruptions or similar events. we could have an interruption in our business, loss of inventory or data, or be rendered unable to accept and fulfill customer orders as a result of a natural disaster, catastrophic event, epidemic or computer system failure. natural disasters could include an earthquake, fire, flood, tornado or severe storm. a catastrophic event could include a terrorist attack. an epidemic could affect our operations, major facilities or employees' and consumers' health. in addition, some of our inventory and production facilities are located in areas that are susceptible to harsh weather; a major storm, heavy snowfall or other similar event could prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner. production of certain of our products is concentrated in a single manufacturing site. we cannot provide assurance that our disaster recovery plan will address all of the issues we may encounter in the event of a disaster or other unanticipated issue, and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur from any of the foregoing. in the event that a natural disaster, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event were to destroy any part of our facilities or interrupt our operations for any extended period of time, or if harsh weather or health conditions prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner, our business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. we may not be able to successfully consummate and manage ongoing acquisition, joint venture and divestiture activities which could have an impact on our results. from time to time, we may acquire other businesses and, based on an evaluation of our business portfolio, divest existing businesses. these acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures may present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, increased expenses and raw material costs, assumption of unknown liabilities and indemnities, and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. in addition, we may be required to incur asset impairment charges (including charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets) in connection with acquired businesses which may reduce our profitability. if we are unable to consummate such transactions, or successfully integrate and grow acquisitions and achieve contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, our financial results could be adversely affected. additionally, joint ventures inherently involve a lesser degree of control over business operations, thereby potentially increasing the financial, legal, operational, and/or compliance risks. our foreign and cross-border operations are subject to additional risks. we operate our business and market our products internationally. in fiscal year 2017 , 41% of our sales were generated in foreign countries. our foreign operations are subject to additional risks, including fluctuations in currency values, foreign currency exchange controls, discriminatory fiscal policies, compliance with u.s. and foreign laws, enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions and other economic or political uncertainties. several countries within the european union continue to experience sovereign debt and credit issues which causes more volatility in the economic environment throughout the european union and the united kingdom (u.k.). additionally, international sales, together with finished goods and raw materials imported into the u.s., are subject to risks related to fundamental changes to tax laws as well as the imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other similar restrictions. all of these risks could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, which could adversely affect our profitability. fluctuations in foreign currency markets may negatively impact us. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency in the following main areas: cash flows related to raw material purchases; the translation of foreign currency earnings to u.s. dollars; the effects of foreign currency on loans between subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates and on cash flows related to repatriation of earnings of unconsolidated affiliates. primary exposures include the u.s. dollar versus the euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, polish zloty, australian dollar, mexican peso, chinese renminbi, indian rupee and thai baht, as well as the euro versus the british pound sterling, australian dollar and swiss franc. we routinely enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to facilitate managing certain of these foreign currency risks. however, these contracts may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to a decline in operating results due to foreign currency exchange changes. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future exchange rate fluctuations will not have a negative impact on our business, financial position or operating results. the decision by british voters to exit the european union may negatively impact our operations. the june 2016 referendum by british voters to exit the european union ( brexit ) adversely impacted global markets and resulted in a sharp decline in the value of the british pound, as compared to the u.s. dollar and other currencies. as the u.k. negotiates its exit from the european union, volatility in exchange rates and in u.k. interest rates may continue. in the near term, a weaker british pound compared to the u.s. dollar during a reporting period causes local currency results of our u.k. operations to be translated into fewer u.s. dollars; a weaker british pound compared to other currencies increases the cost of goods imported into our u.k. operations and may decrease the profitability of our u.k. operations; and a higher u.k. interest rate may have a dampening effect on the u.k. economy. in the longer term, any impact from brexit on our u.k. operations will depend, in part, on the outcome of tariff, trade, regulatory and other negotiations. increases in interest rates or changes in our credit ratings may negatively impact us. we had total outstanding short-term borrowings of $258 million at an average interest rate of approximately 2.3% on november 30, 2017 . we also had total outstanding variable rate long-term debt, including current maturities, of $1,243 million at an average interest rate of approximately 2.7% on november 30, 2017. the interest rates under our term loans and revolving credit facilities can vary based on our credit ratings. our policy is to manage our interest rate risk by entering into both fixed and variable rate debt arrangements. we also use interest rate swaps to minimize worldwide financing cost and to achieve a desired mix of fixed and variable rate debt. we utilize derivative financial instruments to enhance our ability to manage risk, including interest rate exposures that exist as part of our ongoing business operations. we do not enter into contracts for trading purposes, nor are we a party to any leveraged derivative instruments. our use of derivative financial instruments is monitored through regular communication with senior management and the utilization of written guidelines. however, our use of these instruments may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to changes in interest rates. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future credit rating or interest rate changes will not have a material negative impact on our business, financial position or operating results. our credit ratings impact the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, our cost of capital. our credit ratings reflect each rating organization's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations. our credit ratings were downgraded following our financing of the acquisition of rb foods in august 2017, and any reduction in our credit ratings may limit our ability to borrow at interest rates consistent with the interest rates that were available to us prior to that acquisition and the related financing transactions. if our credit ratings are further downgraded or put on watch for a potential downgrade, we may not be able to sell additional debt securities or borrow money in the amounts, at the times or interest rates or upon the more favorable terms and conditions that might be available if our current credit ratings were maintained. we have incurred additional indebtedness to finance the acquisition of rb foods and may not be able to meet our debt service requirements. after financing our acquisition of rb foods, we have a significant amount of indebtedness outstanding. as of november 30, 2017, the indebtedness of mccormick and its subsidiaries is approximately $5.0 billion. this substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences to our business, including, but not limited to: reducing the benefits that we expect to receive from the acquisition of rb foods; increasing our debt service obligations, making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds and increasing the cost of any such borrowing; increasing our exposure to negative fluctuations in interest rates; subjecting us to financial and other restrictive covenants, the non-compliance with which could result in an event of default; increasing our vulnerability to, and reducing our flexibility to respond to, general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; placing us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors, to the extent that they are not as highly leveraged; and restricting us from pursuing certain business opportunities, including other acquisitions. the deterioration of credit and capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding. we rely on our revolving credit facilities, or borrowings backed by these facilities, to fund a portion of our seasonal working capital needs and other general corporate purposes. if any of the banks in the syndicates backing these facilities were unable to perform on its commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could adversely affect funding of seasonal working capital requirements. we engage in regular communication with all of the banks participating in our revolving credit facilities. during these communications, none of the banks have indicated that they may be unable to perform on their commitments. in addition, we periodically review our banking and financing relationships, considering the stability of the institutions, pricing we receive on services and other aspects of the relationships. based on these communications and our monitoring activities, we believe the likelihood of one of our banks not performing on its commitment is remote. in addition, global capital markets have experienced volatility in the past that has tightened access to capital markets and other sources of funding, and such volatility and tightened access could reoccur in the future. in the event that we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time period. our inability to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time period could have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. we face risks associated with certain pension assets and obligations. we hold investments in equity and debt securities in our qualified defined benefit pension plans and in a rabbi trust for our u.s. non-qualified pension plan. deterioration in the value of plan assets resulting from a general financial downturn or otherwise, or an increase in the actuarial valuation of the plans' liability due to a low interest rate environment, could cause (or increase) an underfunded status of our defined benefit pension plans, thereby increasing our obligation to make contributions to the plans. an obligation to make contributions to pension plans could reduce the cash available for working capital and other corporate uses, and may have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. uncertain global economic conditions expose us to credit risks from customers and counterparties. consolidations in some of the industries in which our customers operate have created larger customers, some of which are highly leveraged. in addition, competition has increased with the growth in alternative channels through our customer base. these factors have caused some customers to be less profitable and increased our exposure to credit risk. current credit markets are volatile, and some of our customers and counterparties are highly leveraged. a significant adverse change in the financial and/or credit position of a customer or counterparty could require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer or counterparty and could limit our ability to collect receivables. this could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and liquidity. our operations and reputation may be impaired if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or if we are the subject of a data breach or cyber attack. our information technology systems are critically important to operating our business efficiently. we rely on our information technology systems to manage our business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment, and other business processes. the failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies and the loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. furthermore, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to security breaches beyond our control, including those involving cyber attacks using viruses, worms or other destructive software, process breakdowns, or other malicious activities, or any combination of the foregoing. such breaches could result in unauthorized access to information including customer, consumer or other company confidential data. we invest in security technology and design our business processes to mitigate the risk of such breaches. while we believe that these measures are generally effective, there can be no assurance that security breaches will not occur. moreover, the development and maintenance of these measures requires continuous monitoring as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures evolve. we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, cybersecurity threats and incidents, none of which has been material to us to date. however, a successful breach or attack could have a material, negative impact on our operations or business reputation and subject us to consequences such as litigation, regulatory enforcement proceedings and direct costs associated with incident response. the global nature of our business and the resolution of tax disputes create volatility in our effective tax rate. as a global business, our tax rate from period to period can be affected by many factors, including changes in tax legislation, our global mix of earnings, the tax characteristics of our income, the timing and recognition of goodwill impairments, acquisitions and dispositions, adjustments to our reserves related to uncertain tax positions, changes in valuation allowances and the portion of the income of foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the u.s. and that will be taxable. in addition, significant judgment is required in determining our effective tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions. we establish accruals for certain tax contingencies when, despite the belief that our tax return positions are appropriately supported, the positions are uncertain. the tax contingency accruals are adjusted in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of tax audits, case law and emerging legislation. our effective tax rate includes the impact of tax contingency accruals and changes to those accruals, including related interest and penalties, as considered appropriate by management. when particular matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. favorable resolution of such matters could be recognized as a reduction to our effective tax rate in the year of resolution. unfavorable resolution of any particular issue could increase the effective tax rate and may require the use of cash in the year of resolution. climate change may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. unseasonable or unusual weather or long-term climate changes may negatively impact the price or availability of spices, herbs and other raw materials. there is concern that greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. in the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity or practices, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products. in addition, such climate change may result in modifications to the eating preferences of the ultimate consumers of certain of our products, which may also unfavorably impact our sales and profitability. our intellectual property rights, and those of our customers, could be infringed, challenged or impaired, and reduce the value of our products and brands or our business with customers. we possess intellectual property rights that are important to our business, and we are provided access by certain customers to particular intellectual property rights belonging to such customers. these intellectual property rights include ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets which are important to our business and relate to some of our products, our packaging, the processes for their production, and the design and operation of equipment used in our businesses. we protect our intellectual property rights, and those of certain customers, globally through a variety of means, including trademarks, copyrights, patents and trade secrets, third-party assignments and nondisclosure agreements, and monitoring of third-party misuses of intellectual property. if we fail to obtain or adequately protect our intellectual property (and the intellectual property of customers to which we have been given access), the value of our products and brands could be reduced and there could be an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. litigation, legal or administrative proceedings could have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition or damage our reputation. we are party to a variety of legal claims and proceedings in the ordinary course of business. since litigation is inherently uncertain, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves against such claims or proceedings, or that management's assessment of the materiality or immateriality of these matters, including any reserves taken in connection with such matters, will be consistent with the ultimate outcome of such claims or proceedings. in the event that management's assessment of the materiality or immateriality of current claims and proceedings proves inaccurate, or litigation that is material arises in the future, there may be a material adverse effect on our financial condition. any adverse publicity resulting from allegations made in litigation claims or legal or administrative proceedings (even if untrue) may also adversely affect our reputation. these factors and others could have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition or damage our reputation. streamlining actions to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness may have a negative effect on employee relations. we regularly evaluate whether to implement changes to our organization structure to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness, and we expect to continue to evaluate such actions in the future. from time to time, those changes are of such significance that we may transfer production from one manufacturing facility to another; transfer certain selling and administrative functions from one location to another; eliminate certain manufacturing, selling and administrative positions; and exit certain businesses or lines of business. these actions may result in a deterioration of employee relations at the impacted locations or elsewhere in mccormick. if we are unable to fully realize the benefits from our cci program, our financial results could be negatively affected. our future success depends in part on our ability to be an efficient producer in a highly competitive industry. any failure by us to achieve our planned cost savings and efficiencies under our cci program, or other similar programs, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. we have incurred significant transaction and integration expenses in connection with the acquisition of rb foods that could adversely affect our results of operations. we have incurred significant transaction expenses in connection with the rb foods acquisition, including payment of certain fees and expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition and related financing transactions. we have also incurred significant integration expenses, and expect to continue to incur such expenses in 2018. additional unanticipated expenses may be incurred in the integration process. these could adversely affect our results of operations in the period in which such expenses are recorded or our cash flow in the period in which any related costs are actually paid. rb foods may underperform relative to our expectations. we may not be able to maintain the growth rate, levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that we and rb foods have achieved prior to the completion of that acquisition or might have achieved separately. the business and financial performance of rb foods are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. the underperformance of rb foods relative to our expectations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits that we envisioned at the time of our acquisition of rb foods or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. we may also encounter significant difficulties in integrating rb foods. our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of rb foods will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate rb foods into the rest of our business, which is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. the nature of a carve-out acquisition, such as rb foods, makes it inherently more difficult to assume operations upon closing of the acquisition and to integrate activities, as certain systems, processes and employees may not all be transferred with rb foods to support such activities. as a result, we will be required to continue to devote significant management attention and resources to integrate the business practices and operations of mccormick and rb foods. future integration efforts may disrupt our business and, if implemented ineffectively, could restrict the realization of the full expected benefits. the failure to meet the challenges involved in the integration process and to realize the anticipated benefits of the rb foods acquisition could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, our operations and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the further integration of rb foods may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customers and other business relationships, and diversion of management's attention. additional integration challenges include: difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from the acquisition of rb foods; difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; difficulties in conforming standards, controls, procedures and accounting and other policies, business cultures and compensation structures; difficulties in the assimilation of employees; managing the potential impact of competing or duplicative products; difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company; challenges in obtaining new customers; challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel; and the impact of potential liabilities we may be inheriting from rb foods. many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and result in us becoming subject to litigation. in addition, even if rb foods is integrated successfully, the full anticipated benefits of its acquisition may not be realized, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that are anticipated. these benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. further, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration process. each of these factors could cause reductions in our earnings per share, decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the acquisition and negatively impact the price of shares of our common stock. as a result, it cannot be assured that the acquisition of rb foods will result in the realization of the full anticipated benefits. we expect that, for a period of time following our acquisition of rb foods on august 17, 2017, we will have significantly less cash on hand than prior to that date. we expect to have, for a period of time following the august 17, 2017 acquisition of rb foods, significantly less cash and cash equivalents on hand than the cash and cash equivalents that we had on hand prior to that date. although we believe that we will have access to cash sufficient to meet our business objectives and capital needs, the lessened availability of cash and cash equivalents for a period of time following the acquisition of rb foods could constrain our ability to grow our business. our more leveraged financial position following the acquisition of rb foods could also make us vulnerable to general economic downturns and industry conditions, and place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors that have more cash at their disposal. in the event that we do not have adequate capital to maintain or develop our business, additional capital may not be available to us on a timely basis, on favorable terms, or at all. the acquisition of rb foods has significantly increased our goodwill and other intangible assets. we have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our consolidated financial statements that are subject to impairment based upon future adverse changes in our business or prospects. the impairment of any goodwill and other intangible assets may have a negative impact on our consolidated results of operations. curtailment of our share repurchase program may not enhance shareholder value. we have curtailed the repurchases of our shares under our share repurchase program. upon the acquisition of rb foods, we announced our intention to reduce our leverage ratio by curtailing our share repurchase program, but there can be no assurance that curtailment of the program will result in the reduction of our leverage ratio. our board of directors reserves the right to expand or terminate the share repurchase program at any time. curtailment of the share repurchase program may not have the intended effects and may have a negative impact on our stock price. the declaration, payment and amount of dividends is made at the discretion of our board of directors and depends on a number of factors. the declaration, payment and amount of any dividends is made pursuant to our dividend policy and is subject to final determination each quarter by our board of directors in its discretion based on a number of factors that it deems relevant, including our financial position, results of operations, available cash resources, cash requirements and alternative uses of cash that our board of directors may conclude would be in the best interest of the company and our shareholders. our dividend payments are subject to solvency conditions established by the maryland general corporation law. accordingly, there can be no assurance that any future dividends will be equal or similar in amount to any dividends previously paid or that our board of directors will not decide to reduce, suspend or discontinue the payment of dividends at any time in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk this information is set forth in the market risk sensitivity section of management's discussion and analysis and in note 7 of the financial statements.risk factors the following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. these risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. before you buy our common stock or common stock non-voting, you should know that making such an investment involves risks, including the risks described below. additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or are currently deemed to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations in the future. if any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. in that case, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose part or all of your investment. damage to our reputation or brand name, loss of brand relevance, increase in use of private label or other competitive brands by customers or consumers, or product quality or safety concerns could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. we have many iconic brands with long-standing consumer recognition. our success depends on our ability to maintain our brand image for our existing products, extend our brands to new platforms, and expand our brand image with new product offerings. we continually make efforts to maintain and improve relationships with our customers and consumers and to increase awareness and relevance of our brands through effective marketing and other measures. from time to time, our customers evaluate their mix of product offerings, and consumers have the option to purchase private label or other competitive products instead of our branded products. if a significant portion of our branded business was switched to private label or competitive products, it could have a material negative impact on our consumer segment. our reputation for manufacturing high-quality products is widely recognized. in order to safeguard that reputation, we have adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure the safety of our products. a serious breach of our quality assurance or quality control procedures, deterioration of our quality image, impairment of our customer or consumer relationships or failure to adequately protect the relevance of our brands may lead to litigation, customers purchasing from our competitors or consumers purchasing other brands or private label items that may or may not be manufactured by us, any of which could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the food industry generally is subject to risks posed by food spoilage and contamination, product tampering, product recall, import alerts and consumer product liability claims. for instance, we may be required to recall certain of our products should they be mislabeled, contaminated or damaged, and certain of our raw materials could be blocked from entering the country if they were subject to government-imposed actions. we also may become involved in lawsuits and legal proceedings if it is alleged that the consumption of any of our products could cause injury or illness, or that any of our products are mislabeled or fail to meet applicable legal requirements (even if the allegation is untrue). a product recall, import alert or an adverse result in any such litigation, or negative perceptions regarding food products and ingredients, could result in our having to pay fines or damages, incur additional costs or cause customers and consumers in our principal markets to lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain products or ingredients, any of which could have a negative effect on our business or financial results and, depending upon the significance of the affected product, that negative effect could be material to our business or financial results. negative publicity about these concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage customers and consumers from buying our products or cause disruptions in production or distribution of our products and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the rising popularity of social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination (whether or not accurate), and, as a result, negative, inaccurate, or misleading posts or comments on websites may generate adverse publicity that could damage our reputation or brands. customer consolidation, and competitive, economic and other pressures facing our customers, may put pressure on our operating margins and profitability. a number of our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years and consolidation could continue. such consolidation could present a challenge to margin growth and profitability in that it has produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories; resisting price increases; demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products; and shifting shelf space currently used for our products to private label and other competitive products. the economic and competitive landscape for our customers is constantly changing, such as the emergence of new sales channels like e-commerce, and our customers' responses to those changes could impact our business. our flavor solutions segment may be impacted if the reputation or perception of the customers of our flavor solutions segment declines. these factors and others could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the inability to maintain mutually beneficial relationships with large customers could adversely affect our business. we have a number of major customers, including two large customers that, in the aggregate, constituted approximately 21% of our consolidated sales in 2018 . the loss of either of these large customers or a material negative change in our relationship with these large customers or other major customers could have an adverse effect on our business. disruption of our supply chain and issues regarding procurement of raw materials may negatively impact us. our purchases of raw materials are subject to fluctuations in market price and availability caused by weather, growing and harvesting conditions, market conditions, governmental actions and other factors beyond our control. the most significant raw materials used by us in our business are dairy products, pepper, vanilla, garlic, capsicums (red peppers and paprika), onion, rice and wheat flour. while future price movements of raw material costs are uncertain, we seek to mitigate the market price risk in a number of ways, including strategic raw material purchases, purchases of raw material for future delivery, customer price adjustments and cost savings from our cci program. we generally have not used derivatives to manage the volatility related to this risk. to the extent that we have used derivatives for this purpose, it has not been material to our business. any actions we take in response to market price fluctuations may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to changes in raw material prices. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future raw material price fluctuations will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. in addition, we may have very little opportunity to mitigate the risk of availability of certain raw materials due to the effect of weather on crop yield, government actions, political unrest in producing countries, action or inaction by suppliers in response to laws and regulations, changes in agricultural programs and other factors beyond our control. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future raw material availability will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. political, socio-economic and cultural conditions, as well as disruptions caused by terrorist activities or otherwise, could also create additional risks for regulatory compliance. although we have adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure the safety of our imported products, we cannot provide assurance that such events will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. our profitability may suffer as a result of competition in our markets. the food industry is intensely competitive. competition in our product categories is based on price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing and promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. from time to time, we may need to reduce the prices for some of our products to respond to competitive and customer pressures, which may adversely affect our profitability. such pressures could reduce our ability to take appropriate remedial action to address commodity and other cost increases. laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. food products are extensively regulated in most of the countries in which we sell our products. we are subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the growing, sourcing, manufacturing, storage, labeling, marketing, advertising and distribution of food products, as well as laws and regulations relating to financial reporting requirements, the environment, consumer protection, competition, anti-corruption, privacy, relations with distributors and retailers, foreign supplier verification, customs and trade laws, including the import and export of products and product ingredients, employment, and health and safety. enforcement of existing laws and regulations, changes in legal requirements, and/or evolving interpretations of existing regulatory requirements may result in increased compliance costs and create other obligations, financial or otherwise, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. increased regulatory scrutiny of, and increased litigation involving, product claims and concerns regarding the attributes of food products and ingredients may increase compliance costs and create other obligations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. governments may also impose requirements and restrictions that impact our business, such as labeling disclosures pertaining to ingredients. for example, "proposition 65, the safe drinking water and toxic enforcement act of 1986," in california exposes all food companies to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products in that state. if we were required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in locations where our products are sold in order to comply with proposition 65, the sales of those products and other products of our company could suffer, not only in those locations but elsewhere. in addition, the european union's general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which came into effect in may 2018, creates a range of new compliance obligations for companies that process personal data of european union residents, and increases financial penalties for non-compliance. as a company that processes personal data of european union residents, we bear the costs of compliance with the gdpr and are subject to the potential for fines and penalties in the event of a breach of the gdpr. these factors and others could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations may be impaired as a result of disasters, business interruptions or similar events. we could have an interruption in our business, loss of inventory or data, or be rendered unable to accept and fulfill customer orders as a result of a natural disaster, catastrophic event, epidemic or computer system failure. natural disasters could include an earthquake, fire, flood, tornado or severe storm. a catastrophic event could include a terrorist attack. an epidemic could affect our operations, major facilities or employees' and consumers' health. in addition, some of our inventory and production facilities are located in areas that are susceptible to harsh weather; a major storm, heavy snowfall or other similar event could prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner. production of certain of our products is concentrated in a single manufacturing site. we cannot provide assurance that our disaster recovery plan will address all of the issues we may encounter in the event of a disaster or other unanticipated issue, and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur from any of the foregoing. in the event that a natural disaster, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event were to destroy any part of our facilities or interrupt our operations for any extended period of time, or if harsh weather or health conditions prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner, our business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. we may not be able to successfully consummate and manage ongoing acquisition, joint venture and divestiture activities which could have an impact on our results. from time to time, we may acquire other businesses and, based on an evaluation of our business portfolio, divest existing businesses. these acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures may present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, increased expenses and raw material costs, assumption of unknown liabilities and indemnities, and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. in addition, we may be required to incur asset impairment charges (including charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets) in connection with acquired businesses which may reduce our profitability. if we are unable to consummate such transactions, or successfully integrate and grow acquisitions and achieve contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, our financial results could be adversely affected. additionally, joint ventures inherently involve a lesser degree of control over business operations, thereby potentially increasing the financial, legal, operational, and/or compliance risks. rb foods may underperform relative to our expectations. we may not be able to maintain the growth rate, levels of revenue, earnings or operating efficiency that we and rb foods have achieved prior to the completion of that acquisition or might have achieved separately. the business and financial performance of rb foods are subject to certain risks and uncertainties. the underperformance of rb foods relative to our expectations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits that we envisioned at the time of our acquisition of rb foods or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of rb foods will depend on many factors including, but not limited to the following: difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from the acquisition of rb foods; managing the potential impact of competing or duplicative products; difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company; and challenges in obtaining new customers. the full anticipated benefits of its acquisition may not be realized, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that are anticipated. these benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. each of these factors could cause reductions in our earnings per share, decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the acquisition and negatively impact the price of shares of our common stock. as a result, it cannot be assured that the acquisition of rb foods will result in the realization of the full anticipated benefits. our foreign and cross-border operations are subject to additional risks. we operate our business and market our products internationally. in fiscal year 2018, approximately 40% of our sales were generated in foreign countries. our foreign operations are subject to additional risks, including fluctuations in currency values, foreign currency exchange controls, discriminatory fiscal policies, compliance with u.s. and foreign laws, enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions and other economic or political uncertainties. several countries within the european union continue to experience sovereign debt and credit issues which causes more volatility in the economic environment throughout the european union and the united kingdom ("u.k.") additionally, international sales, together with finished goods and raw materials imported into the u.s., are subject to risks related to fundamental changes to tax laws as well as the imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other similar restrictions. all of these risks could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, which could adversely affect our profitability. fluctuations in foreign currency markets may negatively impact us. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency in the following main areas: cash flows related to raw material purchases; the translation of foreign currency earnings to u.s. dollars; the effects of foreign currency on loans between subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates and on cash flows related to repatriation of earnings of unconsolidated affiliates. primary exposures include the u.s. dollar versus the euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, polish zloty, australian dollar, mexican peso, chinese renminbi, indian rupee and thai baht, as well as the euro versus the british pound sterling, australian dollar and swiss franc. we routinely enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to facilitate managing certain of these foreign currency risks. however, these contracts may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to a decline in operating results due to foreign currency exchange changes. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future exchange rate fluctuations will not have a negative impact on our business, financial position or operating results. the decision by british voters to exit the european union may negatively impact our operations. the u.k. is currently negotiating the terms of its exit from the european union ( brexit ) scheduled for march 29, 2019. in november 2018, the u.k. and the european union agreed upon a draft withdrawal agreement that sets out the terms of the u.k.'s departure, including commitments on citizen rights after brexit, a financial settlement from the u.k., and a transition period from march 29, 2019 through december 31, 2020 to allow time for a future trade deal to be agreed. on january 15, 2019, the draft withdrawal agreement was rejected by the u.k. parliament creating significant uncertainty about the terms (and timing) under which the u.k. will leave the european union. if the u.k. leaves the european union with no agreement ( hard brexit ), it will likely have an adverse impact on labor and trade in addition to creating further short-term uncertainty and currency volatility. in the absence of a future trade deal, the u.k.'s trade with the european union and the rest of the world would be subject to tariffs and duties set by the world trade organization. additionally, the movement of goods between the u.k. and the remaining member states of the european union will be subject to additional inspections and documentation checks, leading to possible delays at ports of entry and departure. these changes to the trading relationship between the u.k and european union would likely result in increased cost of goods imported into and exported from the u.k. and may decrease the profitability of our u.k. and other operations. additional currency volatility could drive a weaker british pound, which increases the cost of goods imported into our u.k. operations and may decrease the profitability of our u.k. operations. a weaker british pound versus the u.s. dollar also causes local currency results of our u.k. operations to be translated into fewer u.s. dollars during a reporting period. with a range of outcomes still possible, the impact from brexit remains uncertain and will depend, in part, on the final outcome of tariff, trade, regulatory and other negotiations. increases in interest rates or changes in our credit ratings may negatively impact us. we had total outstanding short-term borrowings of $560 million at a weighted-average interest rate of approximately 2.9% on november 30, 2018. we also had total outstanding variable rate long-term debt, including current maturities, of approximately $1,284 million at a weighted-average interest rate of approximately 3.3% on november 30, 2018. certain of our variable rate debt, including our revolving credit facility, currently uses libor as a benchmark for establishing the interest rate. libor is the subject of recent proposals for reform. these reforms and other pressures may cause libor to disappear entirely or to perform differently than in the past. the consequences of these developments with respect to libor cannot be entirely predicted but could result in an increase in the cost of our variable rate debt. the interest rates under our term loans and revolving credit facilities can vary based on our credit ratings. our policy is to manage our interest rate risk by entering into both fixed and variable rate debt arrangements. we also use interest rate swaps to minimize worldwide financing cost and to achieve a desired mix of fixed and variable rate debt. we utilize derivative financial instruments to enhance our ability to manage risk, including interest rate exposures that exist as part of our ongoing business operations. we do not enter into contracts for trading purposes, nor are we a party to any leveraged derivative instruments. our use of derivative financial instruments is monitored through regular communication with senior management and the utilization of written guidelines. however, our use of these instruments may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to changes in interest rates. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future credit rating or interest rate changes will not have a material negative impact on our business, financial position or operating results. our credit ratings impact the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, our cost of capital. our credit ratings reflect each rating organization's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations. our credit ratings were downgraded following our financing of the acquisition of rb foods in august 2017, and any reduction in our credit ratings may limit our ability to borrow at interest rates consistent with the interest rates that were available to us prior to that acquisition and the related financing transactions. if our credit ratings are further downgraded or put on watch for a potential downgrade, we may not be able to sell additional debt securities or borrow money in the amounts, at the times or interest rates or upon the more favorable terms and conditions that might be available if our current credit ratings were maintained. we have incurred additional indebtedness to finance the acquisition of rb foods and may not be able to meet our debt service requirements. after financing our acquisition of rb foods, we have a significant amount of indebtedness outstanding. as of november 30, 2018, the indebtedness of mccormick and its subsidiaries is approximately $4.7 billion. this substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences to our business, including, but not limited to: reducing the benefits that we expect to receive from the acquisition of rb foods; increasing our debt service obligations, making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds and increasing the cost of any such borrowing; increasing our exposure to negative fluctuations in interest rates; subjecting us to financial and other restrictive covenants, the non-compliance with which could result in an event of default; increasing our vulnerability to, and reducing our flexibility to respond to, general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; placing us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors, to the extent that they are not as highly leveraged; and restricting us from pursuing certain business opportunities, including other acquisitions. the deterioration of credit and capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding. we rely on our revolving credit facilities, or borrowings backed by these facilities, to fund a portion of our seasonal working capital needs and other general corporate purposes. if any of the banks in the syndicates backing these facilities were unable to perform on its commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could adversely affect funding of seasonal working capital requirements. we engage in regular communication with all of the banks participating in our revolving credit facilities. during these communications, none of the banks have indicated that they may be unable to perform on their commitments. in addition, we periodically review our banking and financing relationships, considering the stability of the institutions, pricing we receive on services and other aspects of the relationships. based on these communications and our monitoring activities, we believe the likelihood of one of our banks not performing on its commitment is remote. in addition, global capital markets have experienced volatility in the past that has tightened access to capital markets and other sources of funding, and such volatility and tightened access could reoccur in the future. in the event that we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time period. our inability to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time period could have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. we face risks associated with certain pension assets and obligations. we hold investments in equity and debt securities in our qualified defined benefit pension plans and in a rabbi trust for our u.s. non-qualified pension plan. deterioration in the value of plan assets resulting from a general financial downturn or otherwise, or an increase in the actuarial valuation of the plans' liability due to a low interest rate environment, could cause (or increase) an underfunded status of our defined benefit pension plans, thereby increasing our obligation to make contributions to the plans. an obligation to make contributions to pension plans could reduce the cash available for working capital and other corporate uses, and may have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. uncertain global economic conditions expose us to credit risks from customers and counterparties. consolidations in some of the industries in which our customers operate have created larger customers, some of which are highly leveraged. in addition, competition has increased with the growth in alternative channels through our customer base. these factors have caused some customers to be less profitable and increased our exposure to credit risk. current credit markets are volatile, and some of our customers and counterparties are highly leveraged. a significant adverse change in the financial and/or credit position of a customer or counterparty could require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer or counterparty and could limit our ability to collect receivables. this could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and liquidity. our operations and reputation may be impaired if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or if we are the subject of a data breach or cyber-attack. our information technology systems are critically important to operating our business. we rely on our information technology systems, some of which are or may be managed or hosted by or out-sourced to third party service providers, to manage our business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment, and other business processes. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build, sustain, and protect appropriate information technology systems and infrastructure, or we do not effectively implement system upgrades or oversee third party service providers, our business or financial results could be negatively impacted. the failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction or reporting errors, processing inefficiencies and the loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. furthermore, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks or other security incidents, service disruptions, or other system or process failures. such incidents could result in unauthorized access to information including customer, consumer or other company confidential data as well as disruptions to operations. we have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience, cybersecurity threats and incidents although to date none has been material. to address the risks to our information technology systems and data, we maintain an information security program that includes updating technology, developing security policies and procedures, implementing and assessing the effectiveness of controls, conducting risk assessments of third party service providers and designing business processes to mitigate the risk of such breaches. there can be no assurance that these measures will prevent or limit the impact of a future incident. moreover, the development and maintenance of these measures requires continuous monitoring as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures evolve. if we are unable to prevent or adequately respond to and resolve an incident, it may have a material, negative impact on our operations or business reputation, and we may experience other adverse consequences such as loss of assets, remediation costs, litigation, regulatory investigations, and the failure by us to retain or attract customers following such an event. additionally, we rely on services provided by third-party vendors for certain information technology processes and functions, which makes our operations vulnerable to a failure by any one of these vendors to perform adequately or maintain effective internal controls. the global nature of our business and the resolution of tax disputes create volatility in our effective tax rate. as a global business, our tax rate from period to period can be affected by many factors, including changes in tax legislation, our global mix of earnings, the tax characteristics of our income, the timing and recognition of goodwill impairments, acquisitions and dispositions, adjustments to our reserves related to uncertain tax positions, changes in valuation allowances and the portion of the income of foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the u.s. and that will be taxable. in addition, significant judgment is required in determining our effective tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions. we establish accruals for certain tax contingencies when, despite the belief that our tax return positions are appropriately supported, the positions are uncertain. the tax contingency accruals are adjusted in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of tax audits, case law and emerging legislation. our effective tax rate includes the impact of tax contingency accruals and changes to those accruals, including related interest and penalties, as considered appropriate by management. when particular matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. favorable resolution of such matters could be recognized as a reduction to our effective tax rate in the year of resolution. unfavorable resolution of any particular issue could increase the effective tax rate and may require the use of cash in the year of resolution. climate change may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. unseasonable or unusual weather or long-term climate changes may negatively impact the price or availability of spices, herbs and other raw materials. there is concern that greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. in the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity or practices, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products. in addition, such climate change may result in modifications to the eating preferences of the ultimate consumers of certain of our products, which may also unfavorably impact our sales and profitability. our intellectual property rights, and those of our customers, could be infringed, challenged or impaired, and reduce the value of our products and brands or our business with customers. we possess intellectual property rights that are important to our business, and we are provided access by certain customers to particular intellectual property rights belonging to such customers. these intellectual property rights include ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets which are important to our business and relate to some of our products, our packaging, the processes for their production, and the design and operation of equipment used in our businesses. we protect our intellectual property rights, and those of certain customers, globally through a variety of means, including trademarks, copyrights, patents and trade secrets, third-party assignments and nondisclosure agreements, and monitoring of third-party misuses of intellectual property. if we fail to obtain or adequately protect our intellectual property (and the intellectual property of customers to which we have been given access), the value of our products and brands could be reduced and there could be an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. litigation, legal or administrative proceedings could have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition or damage our reputation. we are party to a variety of legal claims and proceedings in the ordinary course of business. since litigation is inherently uncertain, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves against such claims or proceedings, or that management's assessment of the materiality or immateriality of these matters, including any reserves taken in connection with such matters, will be consistent with the ultimate outcome of such claims or proceedings. in the event that management's assessment of the materiality or immateriality of current claims and proceedings proves inaccurate, or litigation that is material arises in the future, there may be a material adverse effect on our financial condition. any adverse publicity resulting from allegations made in litigation claims or legal or administrative proceedings (even if untrue) may also adversely affect our reputation. these factors and others could have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition or damage our reputation. streamlining actions to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness may have a negative effect on employee relations. we regularly evaluate whether to implement changes to our organization structure to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness, and we expect to continue to evaluate such actions in the future. from time to time, those changes are of such significance that we may transfer production from one manufacturing facility to another; transfer certain selling and administrative functions from one location to another; eliminate certain manufacturing, selling and administrative positions; and exit certain businesses or lines of business. these actions may result in a deterioration of employee relations at the impacted locations or elsewhere in mccormick. if we are unable to fully realize the benefits from our cci program, our financial results could be negatively affected. our future success depends in part on our ability to be an efficient producer in a highly competitive industry. any failure by us to achieve our planned cost savings and efficiencies under our cci program, or other similar programs, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. the acquisition of rb foods has significantly increased our goodwill and other intangible assets. we have a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets on our consolidated financial statements that are subject to impairment based upon future adverse changes in our business or prospects. the impairment of any goodwill and other intangible assets may have a negative impact on our consolidated results of operations. curtailment of our share repurchase program may not enhance shareholder value. we have curtailed the repurchases of our shares under our share repurchase program. upon the acquisition of rb foods, we announced our intention to reduce our leverage ratio by curtailing our share repurchase program, but there can be no assurance that curtailment of the program will result in the reduction of our leverage ratio. our board of directors reserves the right to expand or terminate the share repurchase program at any time. curtailment of the share repurchase program may not have the intended effects and may have a negative impact on our stock price. the declaration, payment and amount of dividends is made at the discretion of our board of directors and depends on a number of factors. the declaration, payment and amount of any dividends is made pursuant to our dividend policy and is subject to final determination each quarter by our board of directors in its discretion based on a number of factors that it deems relevant, including our financial position, results of operations, available cash resources, cash requirements and alternative uses of cash that our board of directors may conclude would be in the best interest of the company and our shareholders. our dividend payments are subject to solvency conditions established by the maryland general corporation law. accordingly, there can be no assurance that any future dividends will be equal or similar in amount to any dividends previously paid or that our board of directors will not decide to reduce, suspend or discontinue the payment of dividends at any time in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk this information is set forth in the market risk sensitivity section of management's discussion and analysis and in note 7 of the accompanying financial statements.risk factors the following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. these risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. before you buy our common stock or common stock non-voting, you should know that making such an investment involves risks, including the risks described below. additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or are currently deemed to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations in the future. if any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. in that case, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose part or all of your investment. damage to our reputation or brand name, loss of brand relevance, increase in use of private label or other competitive brands by customers or consumers, or product quality or safety concerns could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. we have many iconic brands with long-standing consumer recognition. our success depends on our ability to maintain our brand image for our existing products, extend our brands to new platforms, and expand our brand image with new product offerings. we continually make efforts to maintain and improve relationships with our customers and consumers and to increase awareness and relevance of our brands through effective marketing and other measures. from time to time, our customers evaluate their mix of product offerings, and consumers have the option to purchase private label or other competitive products instead of our branded products. if a significant portion of our branded business was switched to private label or competitive products, it could have a material negative impact on our consumer segment. our reputation for manufacturing high-quality products is widely recognized. in order to safeguard that reputation, we have adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure the safety of our products. a serious breach of our quality assurance or quality control procedures, deterioration of our quality image, impairment of our customer or consumer relationships or failure to adequately protect the relevance of our brands may lead to litigation, customers purchasing from our competitors or consumers purchasing other brands or private label items that may or may not be manufactured by us, any of which could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the food industry generally is subject to risks posed by food spoilage and contamination, product tampering, product recall, import alerts and consumer product liability claims. for instance, we may be required to recall certain of our products should they be mislabeled, contaminated or damaged, and certain of our raw materials could be blocked from entering the country if they were subject to government-imposed actions. we also may become involved in lawsuits and legal proceedings if it is alleged that the consumption of any of our products could cause injury or illness, or that any of our products are mislabeled or fail to meet applicable legal requirements (even if the allegation is untrue). a product recall, import alert or an adverse result in any such litigation, or negative perceptions regarding food products and ingredients, could result in our having to pay fines or damages, incur additional costs or cause customers and consumers in our principal markets to lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain products or ingredients, any of which could have a negative effect on our business or financial results and, depending upon the significance of the affected product, that negative effect could be material to our business or financial results. negative publicity about these concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage customers and consumers from buying our products or cause disruptions in production or distribution of our products and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the rising popularity of social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination (whether or not accurate), and, as a result, negative, inaccurate, or misleading posts or comments on websites may generate adverse publicity that could damage our reputation or brands. 6 customer consolidation, and competitive, economic and other pressures facing our customers, may put pressure on our operating margins and profitability. a number of our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years and consolidation could continue. such consolidation could present a challenge to margin growth and profitability in that it has produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories; resisting price increases; demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products; and shifting shelf space currently used for our products to private label and other competitive products. the economic and competitive landscape for our customers is constantly changing, such as the emergence of new sales channels like e-commerce, and our customers' responses to those changes could impact our business. our flavor solutions segment may be impacted if the reputation or perception of the customers of our flavor solutions segment declines. these factors and others could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the inability to maintain mutually beneficial relationships with large customers could adversely affect our business. we have a number of major customers, including two large customers that, in the aggregate, constituted approximately 21% of our consolidated sales in 2019 . the loss of either of these large customers or a material negative change in our relationship with these large customers or other major customers could have an adverse effect on our business. disruption of our supply chain and issues regarding procurement of raw materials may negatively impact us. our purchases of raw materials are subject to fluctuations in market price and availability caused by weather, growing and harvesting conditions, market conditions, governmental actions and other factors beyond our control. the most significant raw materials used by us in our business are dairy products, vanilla, pepper, capsicums (red peppers and paprika), garlic, onion, rice and wheat flour . while future price movements of raw material costs are uncertain, we seek to mitigate the market price risk in a number of ways, including strategic raw material purchases, purchases of raw material for future delivery, customer price adjustments and cost savings from our cci program. we generally have not used derivatives to manage the volatility related to this risk. to the extent that we have used derivatives for this purpose, it has not been material to our business. any actions we take in response to market price fluctuations may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to changes in raw material prices. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future raw material price fluctuations will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. in addition, we may have very little opportunity to mitigate the risk of availability of certain raw materials due to the effect of weather on crop yield, government actions, political unrest in producing countries, action or inaction by suppliers in response to laws and regulations, changes in agricultural programs and other factors beyond our control. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future raw material availability will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. political, socio-economic and cultural conditions, as well as disruptions caused by terrorist activities or otherwise, could also create additional risks for regulatory compliance. although we have adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure the safety of our imported products, we cannot provide assurance that such events will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. our profitability may suffer as a result of competition in our markets. the food industry is intensely competitive. competition in our product categories is based on price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing and promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. from time to time, we may need to reduce the prices for some of our products to respond to competitive and customer pressures, which may adversely affect our profitability. such pressures could reduce our ability to take appropriate remedial action to address commodity and other cost increases. laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. food products are extensively regulated in most of the countries in which we sell our products. we are subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the growing, sourcing, manufacturing, storage, labeling, marketing, advertising and distribution of food products, as well as laws and regulations relating to financial reporting requirements, the environment, consumer protection, competition, anti-corruption, privacy, relations with distributors 7 and retailers, foreign supplier verification, customs and trade laws, including the import and export of products and product ingredients, employment, and health and safety. enforcement of existing laws and regulations, changes in legal requirements, and/or evolving interpretations of existing regulatory requirements may result in increased compliance costs and create other obligations, financial or otherwise, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. increased regulatory scrutiny of, and increased litigation involving, product claims and concerns regarding the attributes of food products and ingredients may increase compliance costs and create other obligations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. governments may also impose requirements and restrictions that impact our business, such as labeling disclosures pertaining to ingredients. for example, "proposition 65, the safe drinking water and toxic enforcement act of 1986," in california exposes all food companies to the possibility of having to provide warnings on their products in that state. if we were required to add warning labels to any of our products or place warnings in locations where our products are sold in order to comply with proposition 65, the sales of those products and other products of our company could suffer, not only in those locations but elsewhere. in addition, there are various compliance obligations for companies that process personal data of certain individuals, including such obligations required by the european union's general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which came into effect in may 2018, and the california consumer privacy act ( ccpa ), which came into effect in january 2020. these types of data privacy laws create a range of new compliance obligations for companies that process personal data of certain individuals, and increases financial penalties for non-compliance. for example, the ccpa imposes requirements on companies that do business in california and collect personal information from customers, including notice, consent and service provider requirements. the ccpa also provides for civil penalties for companies that fail to comply with these requirements, as well as a private right of action for data breaches. regulations to implement portions of the ccpa have not been finalized and could significantly impact ccpa compliance measures. as a company that is subject to data privacy laws, we bear the costs of compliance with them, including the gdpr and ccpa, and are subject to the potential for fines and penalties in the event of a breach of these laws, which continue to evolve. these factors and others could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations may be impaired as a result of disasters, business interruptions or similar events. we could have an interruption in our business, loss of inventory or data, or be rendered unable to accept and fulfill customer orders as a result of a natural disaster, catastrophic event, epidemic or computer system failure. natural disasters could include an earthquake, fire, flood, tornado or severe storm. a catastrophic event could include a terrorist attack. an epidemic could affect our operations, major facilities or employees' and consumers' health. in addition, some of our inventory and production facilities are located in areas that are susceptible to harsh weather; a major storm, heavy snowfall or other similar event could prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner. production of certain of our products is concentrated in a single manufacturing site. we cannot provide assurance that our disaster recovery plan will address all of the issues we may encounter in the event of a disaster or other unanticipated issue, and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur from any of the foregoing. in the event that a natural disaster, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event were to destroy any part of our facilities or interrupt our operations for any extended period of time, or if harsh weather or health conditions prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner, our business, financial condition or operating results could be adversely affected. we may not be able to successfully consummate and manage ongoing acquisition, joint venture and divestiture activities which could have an impact on our results. from time to time, we may acquire other businesses and, based on an evaluation of our business portfolio, divest existing businesses. these acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures may present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, increased expenses and raw material costs, assumption of unknown liabilities and indemnities, and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. in addition, we may be required to incur asset impairment charges (including charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets) in connection with acquired businesses which may reduce our profitability. if we are unable to consummate such transactions, or successfully integrate and grow acquisitions and achieve contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, our financial results could be adversely affected. additionally, joint ventures inherently involve a lesser degree of control over business operations, thereby potentially increasing the financial, legal, operational, and/or compliance risks. 8 an impairment of the carrying value of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets could adversely affect our results. as of november 30, 2019, we had approximately $4.5 billion of goodwill and approximately $2.6 billion of other indefinite-lived intangible assets. goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are initially recorded at fair value and not amortized but are tested for impairment at least annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. we test goodwill at the reporting unit level by comparing the carrying value of the net assets of the reporting unit, including goodwill, to the unit's fair value. similarly, we test indefinite-lived intangible assets by comparing the fair value of the assets to their carrying values. if the carrying values of the reporting unit or indefinite-lived intangible assets exceed their fair value, the goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets are considered impaired and reduced to their implied fair value or fair value, respectively. factors that could result in an impairment include a change in revenue growth rates, operating margins, weighted average cost of capital, future economic and market conditions or assumed royalty rates. the impairment of our goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets may have a negative impact on our consolidated results of operations. because indefinite-lived intangible assets are recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition of the related business, indefinite-lived intangible assets associated with recent business acquisitions, particularly those acquired in recent low interest rate environments, such as rb foods, are more susceptible to impairment in periods of rising interest rates than indefinite-lived intangible assets related to businesses acquired in periods of higher interest rates. our foreign and cross-border operations are subject to additional risks. we operate our business and market our products internationally. in fiscal year 2019, approximately 40% of our sales were generated in foreign countries. our foreign operations are subject to additional risks, including fluctuations in currency values, foreign currency exchange controls, discriminatory fiscal policies, compliance with u.s. and foreign laws, enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions and other economic or political uncertainties. several countries within the european union continue to experience sovereign debt and credit issues which causes more volatility in the economic environment throughout the european union and the united kingdom ("u.k.") additionally, international sales, together with finished goods and raw materials imported into the u.s., are subject to risks related to fundamental changes to tax laws as well as the imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other similar restrictions. all of these risks could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, which could adversely affect our profitability. fluctuations in foreign currency markets may negatively impact us. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency in the following main areas: cash flows related to raw material purchases; the translation of foreign currency earnings to u.s. dollars; the effects of foreign currency on loans between subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates and on cash flows related to repatriation of earnings of unconsolidated affiliates. primary exposures include the u.s. dollar versus the euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, polish zloty, australian dollar, mexican peso, chinese renminbi, indian rupee and thai baht, as well as the euro versus the british pound sterling, australian dollar and swiss franc. we routinely enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to facilitate managing certain of these foreign currency risks. however, these contracts may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to a decline in operating results due to foreign currency exchange changes. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future exchange rate fluctuations will not have a negative impact on our business, financial position or operating results. the decision by british voters to exit the european union may negatively impact our operations. the u.k. is currently negotiating the terms of its exit from the european union ( brexit ). in november 2018, the u.k. and the european union agreed upon a draft withdrawal agreement that sets out the terms of the u.k.'s departure, including commitments on citizen rights after brexit, a financial settlement from the u.k., and a transition period to allow time for a future trade deal to be agreed. after the u.k. parliament failed to approve the withdrawal agreement in october 2019, european union leaders granted the u.k. a three-month flexible brexit extension, avoiding a no-deal exit on the previous deadline of october 31, 2019. on january 23, 2020, the withdrawal act, after clearing all stages in the u.k. parliament, received royal assent from the queen. assuming approval by the european parliament, the u.k. is expected to officially leave the european union on january 31, 2020. following its departure, the u.k. will enter a transition period until december 31, 2020 during which period of time the u.k.'s trading relationship with the european union will remain largely the same while the two parties negotiate a free trade agreement as well as other aspects of the u.k.'s relationship with the european union. the withdrawal 9 agreement allows the u.k./european union joint committee to extend the transition period by up to two years, meaning that the terms and eventual date of the u.k.'s withdrawal remain highly uncertain. if the u.k. leaves the european union with no agreement ( hard brexit ), it will likely have an adverse impact on labor and trade in addition to creating further short-term uncertainty and currency volatility. in the absence of a future trade deal, the u.k.'s trade with the european union and the rest of the world would be subject to tariffs and duties set by the world trade organization. current volatility and tariffs and duties on trade may also occur under any trade agreement negotiated between the u.k. and the european union, depending on the agreement's terms. additionally, under a hard brexit or a negotiated trade agreement, the movement of goods between the u.k. and the remaining member states of the european union may be subject to additional inspections and documentation checks, leading to possible delays at ports of entry and departure. these changes to the trading relationship between the u.k and european union would likely result in increased cost of goods imported into and exported from the u.k. and may decrease the profitability of our u.k. and other operations. additional currency volatility could drive a weaker british pound, which increases the cost of goods imported into our u.k. operations and may decrease the profitability of our u.k. operations. a weaker british pound versus the u.s. dollar also causes local currency results of our u.k. operations to be translated into fewer u.s. dollars during a reporting period. with a range of outcomes still possible, the impact from brexit remains uncertain and will depend, in part, on the final outcome of tariff, trade, regulatory and other negotiations. increases in interest rates or changes in our credit ratings may negatively impact us. on november 30, 2019, we had total outstanding variable rate debt of approximately $882 million , including $601 million of short-term borrowings, at a weighted-average interest rate of approximately 2.6%. the interest rates under our term loans and revolving credit facilities can vary based on our credit ratings. our policy is to manage our interest rate risk by entering into both fixed and variable rate debt arrangements. we also use interest rate swaps to minimize worldwide financing cost and to achieve a desired mix of fixed and variable rate debt. we utilize derivative financial instruments to enhance our ability to manage risk, including interest rate exposures that exist as part of our ongoing business operations. we do not enter into contracts for trading purposes, nor are we a party to any leveraged derivative instruments. our use of derivative financial instruments is monitored through regular communication with senior management and the utilization of written guidelines. however, our use of these instruments may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to changes in interest rates. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future credit rating or interest rate changes will not have a material negative impact on our business, financial position or operating results. our credit ratings impact the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, our cost of capital. our credit ratings reflect each rating organization's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations. our credit ratings were downgraded following our financing of the acquisition of rb foods in august 2017, and any reduction in our credit ratings may limit our ability to borrow at interest rates consistent with the interest rates that were available to us prior to that acquisition and the related financing transactions. if our credit ratings are further downgraded or put on watch for a potential downgrade, we may not be able to sell additional debt securities or borrow money in the amounts, at the times or interest rates or upon the more favorable terms and conditions that might be available if our current credit ratings were maintained. we have incurred additional indebtedness to finance the acquisition of rb foods and may not be able to meet our debt service requirements. after financing our acquisition of rb foods, we have a significant amount of indebtedness outstanding. as of november 30, 2019, the indebtedness of mccormick and its subsidiaries is approximately $4.3 billion. this substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences to our business, including, but not limited to: increasing our debt service obligations, making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations; limiting our ability to borrow additional funds and increasing the cost of any such borrowing; increasing our exposure to negative fluctuations in interest rates; subjecting us to financial and other restrictive covenants, the non-compliance with which could result in an event of default; increasing our vulnerability to, and reducing our flexibility to respond to, general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors, to the extent that they are not as highly leveraged. 10 the deterioration of credit and capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding. we rely on our revolving credit facilities, or borrowings backed by these facilities, to fund a portion of our seasonal working capital needs and other general corporate purposes. if any of the banks in the syndicates backing these facilities were unable to perform on its commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could adversely affect funding of seasonal working capital requirements. we engage in regular communication with all of the banks participating in our revolving credit facilities. during these communications, none of the banks have indicated that they may be unable to perform on their commitments. in addition, we periodically review our banking and financing relationships, considering the stability of the institutions, pricing we receive on services and other aspects of the relationships. based on these communications and our monitoring activities, we believe the likelihood of one of our banks not performing on its commitment is remote. in addition, global capital markets have experienced volatility in the past that has tightened access to capital markets and other sources of funding, and such volatility and tightened access could reoccur in the future. in the event that we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time period. our inability to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time period could have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. the uncertainty regarding the potential phase-out of libor may negatively impact our operating results. libor, the interest rate benchmark used as a reference rate on our variable rate debt, including our revolving credit facility, interest rate swaps, and cross currency interest rate swaps is expected to be phased out after 2021, when private-sector banks are no longer required to report the information used to set the rate. without this data, libor may no longer be published, or the lack of quality and quantity of data may cause the rate to no longer be representative of the market. at this time, no consensus exists as to what rate or rates will become accepted alternatives to libor, although the u.s. federal reserve, in connection with the alternative reference rates committee, a steering committee comprised of large u.s. financial institutions, is considering replacing u.s. dollar libor with the secured overnight financing rate ( sofr ). sofr is a more generic measure than libor and considers the cost of borrowing cash overnight, collateralized by u.s. treasury securities. given the inherent differences between libor and sofr or any other alternative benchmark rate that may be established, there are many uncertainties regarding a transition from libor, including but not limited to the need to amend all contracts with libor as the referenced rate and how this will impact the company's cost of variable rate debt and certain derivative financial instruments. the company will also need to consider new contracts and if they should reference an alternative benchmark rate or include suggested fallback language, as published by the alternative reference rates committee. the consequences of these developments with respect to libor cannot be entirely predicted and span multiple future periods but could result in an increase in the cost of our variable rate debt or derivative financial instruments which may be detrimental to our financial position or operating results. we face risks associated with certain pension assets and obligations. we hold investments in equity and debt securities in our qualified defined benefit pension plans and in a rabbi trust for our u.s. non-qualified pension plan. deterioration in the value of plan assets resulting from a general financial downturn or otherwise, or an increase in the actuarial valuation of the plans' liability due to a low interest rate environment, could cause (or increase) an underfunded status of our defined benefit pension plans, thereby increasing our obligation to make contributions to the plans. an obligation to make contributions to pension plans could reduce the cash available for working capital and other corporate uses, and may have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. uncertain global economic conditions expose us to credit risks from customers and counterparties. consolidations in some of the industries in which our customers operate have created larger customers, some of which are highly leveraged. in addition, competition has increased with the growth in alternative channels through our customer base. these factors have caused some customers to be less profitable and increased our exposure to credit risk. current credit markets are volatile, and some of our customers and counterparties are highly leveraged. a significant adverse change in the financial and/or credit position of a customer or counterparty could require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer or counterparty and could limit our ability to collect receivables. this could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and liquidity. our operations and reputation may be impaired if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or if we are the subject of a data breach or cyber-attack. 11 our information technology systems are critically important to operating our business. we rely on our information technology systems, some of which are or may be managed or hosted by or out-sourced to third party service providers, to manage our business data, communications, supply chain, order entry and fulfillment, and other business processes. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build, sustain, and protect appropriate information technology systems and infrastructure, or we do not effectively implement system upgrades or oversee third party service providers, our business or financial results could be negatively impacted. the failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and could result in transaction or reporting errors, processing inefficiencies and the loss of sales and customers, causing our business and results of operations to suffer. furthermore, our information technology systems are subject to cyber-attacks or other security incidents, service disruptions, or other system or process failures. such incidents could result in unauthorized access to information including customer, consumer or other company confidential data as well as disruptions to operations. we have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience, cybersecurity threats and incidents, although to date none has been material. to address the risks to our information technology systems and data, we maintain an information security program that includes updating technology, developing security policies and procedures, implementing and assessing the effectiveness of controls, conducting risk assessments of third party service providers and designing business processes to mitigate the risk of such breaches. there can be no assurance that these measures will prevent or limit the impact of a future incident. moreover, the development and maintenance of these measures requires continuous monitoring as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures evolve. if we are unable to prevent or adequately respond to and resolve an incident, it may have a material, negative impact on our operations or business reputation, and we may experience other adverse consequences such as loss of assets, remediation costs, litigation, regulatory investigations, and the failure by us to retain or attract customers following such an event. additionally, we rely on services provided by third-party vendors for certain information technology processes and functions, which makes our operations vulnerable to a failure by any one of these vendors to perform adequately or maintain effective internal controls. if we are not able to successfully implement our business transformation initiative or utilize information technology systems and networks effectively, our ability to conduct our business may be negatively impacted. we continue to implement our multi-year business transformation initiative to execute significant change to our global processes, capabilities and operating model, including in our global enablement (ge) organization, in order to provide a scalable platform for future growth, while reducing costs. as technology provides the backbone for greater process alignment, information sharing and scalability, we are also making investments in our information systems, including the multi-year program to replace our enterprise resource planning (erp) system currently underway, which includes the transformation of our financial processing systems to enterprise-wide systems solutions. these systems implementations are part of our ongoing business transformation initiative, and we plan to implement these systems throughout all parts of our businesses. if we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper information technology infrastructure, or if we fail to achieve the expected benefits from this initiative, it may impact our ability to process transactions accurately and efficiently and remain in step with the changing needs of our business, which could result in the loss of customers and revenue. in addition, failure to either deliver the applications on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption and loss of customers and revenue. in connection with these implementations and resulting business process changes, we continue to enhance the design and documentation of business processes and controls, including our internal control over financial reporting processes, to maintain effective controls over our financial reporting. we utilize cloud-based services and systems and networks managed by third-party vendors to process, transmit and store information and to conduct certain of our business activities and transactions with employees, customers, vendors and other third parties. our utilization of these cloud-based services and systems will increase as we implement our business transformation initiatives. if any of these third-party service providers or vendors do not perform effectively, or if we fail to adequately monitor their performance (including compliance with service-level agreements or regulatory or legal requirements), we may not be able to achieve expected cost savings, we may have to incur additional costs to correct errors made by such service providers, our reputation could be harmed or we could be subject to litigation, claims, legal or regulatory proceedings, inquiries or investigations. depending on the function involved, such errors may also lead to business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property or sensitive data through security breaches or otherwise, incorrect or adverse effects on financial reporting, litigation or remediation costs, or damage to our reputation, which could have a 12 negative impact on employee morale. in addition, the management of multiple third-party service providers increases operational complexity and decreases our control. the global nature of our business, changes in tax legislation and the resolution of tax uncertainties create volatility in our effective tax rate. as a global business, our tax rate from period to period can be affected by many factors, including changes in tax legislation, our global mix of earnings, the tax characteristics of our income, the timing and recognition of goodwill impairments, acquisitions and dispositions, adjustments to our reserves related to uncertain tax positions, changes in valuation allowances and the portion of the income of foreign subsidiaries that we expect to remit to the u.s. and that will be taxable. in addition, significant judgment is required in determining our effective tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions. we establish accruals for certain tax contingencies when, despite the belief that our tax return positions are appropriately supported, the positions are uncertain. the tax contingency accruals are adjusted in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of tax audits, case law and emerging legislation. our effective tax rate includes the impact of tax contingency accruals and changes to those accruals, including related interest and penalties, as considered appropriate by management. when particular matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters are audited and finally resolved. favorable resolution of such matters could be recognized as a reduction to our effective tax rate in the year of resolution. unfavorable resolution of any particular issue could increase the effective tax rate and may require the use of cash in the year of resolution. climate change may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. unseasonable or unusual weather or long-term climate changes may negatively impact the price or availability of spices, herbs and other raw materials. there is concern that greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. in the event that such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity or practices, we may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products. in addition, such climate change may result in modifications to the eating preferences of the ultimate consumers of certain of our products, which may also unfavorably impact our sales and profitability. our intellectual property rights, and those of our customers, could be infringed, challenged or impaired, and reduce the value of our products and brands or our business with customers. we possess intellectual property rights that are important to our business, and we are provided access by certain customers to particular intellectual property rights belonging to such customers. these intellectual property rights include ingredient formulas, trademarks, copyrights, patents, business processes and other trade secrets which are important to our business and relate to some of our products, our packaging, the processes for their production, and the design and operation of equipment used in our businesses. we protect our intellectual property rights, and those of certain customers, globally through a variety of means, including trademarks, copyrights, patents and trade secrets, third-party assignments and nondisclosure agreements, and monitoring of third-party misuses of intellectual property. if we fail to obtain or adequately protect our intellectual property (and the intellectual property of customers to which we have been given access), the value of our products and brands could be reduced and there could be an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. litigation, legal or administrative proceedings could have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition or damage our reputation. we are party to a variety of legal claims and proceedings in the ordinary course of business. since litigation is inherently uncertain, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves against such claims or proceedings, or that management's assessment of the materiality or immateriality of these matters, including any reserves taken in connection with such matters, will be consistent with the ultimate outcome of such claims or proceedings. in the event that management's assessment of the materiality or immateriality of current claims and proceedings proves inaccurate, or litigation that is material arises in the future, there may be a material adverse effect on our financial condition. any adverse publicity resulting from allegations made in litigation claims or legal or administrative proceedings (even if untrue) may also adversely affect our reputation. these factors and others could have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition or damage our reputation. 13 streamlining actions to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness may have a negative effect on employee relations. we regularly evaluate whether to implement changes to our organization structure to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness, and we expect to continue to evaluate such actions in the future. from time to time, those changes are of such significance that we may transfer production from one manufacturing facility to another; transfer certain selling and administrative functions from one location to another; eliminate certain manufacturing, selling and administrative positions; and exit certain businesses or lines of business. these actions may result in a deterioration of employee relations at the impacted locations or elsewhere in mccormick. if we are unable to fully realize the benefits from our cci program, our financial results could be negatively affected. our future success depends in part on our ability to be an efficient producer in a highly competitive industry. any failure by us to achieve our planned cost savings and efficiencies under our cci program, an ongoing initiative to improve productivity and reduce costs throughout the organization, or other similar programs, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. the declaration, payment and amount of dividends is made at the discretion of our board of directors and depends on a number of factors. the declaration, payment and amount of any dividends is made pursuant to our dividend policy and is subject to final determination each quarter by our board of directors in its discretion based on a number of factors that it deems relevant, including our financial position, results of operations, available cash resources, cash requirements and alternative uses of cash that our board of directors may conclude would be in the best interest of the company and our shareholders. our dividend payments are subject to solvency conditions established by the maryland general corporation law. accordingly, there can be no assurance that any future dividends will be equal or similar in amount to any dividends previously paid or that our board of directors will not decide to reduce, suspend or discontinue the payment of dividends at any time in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk this information is set forth in the market risk sensitivity section of management's discussion and analysis and in note 7 of the accompanying financial statements. 44risk factors the following are certain risk factors that could affect the registrant business, financial condition and results of operations. these risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. before you buy the registrant common stock, you should know that making such an investment involves some risks, including the risks described below. the risks that have been highlighted here are not the only ones that the registrant faces. if any of the risks actually occur, the registrant business, financial condition or results of operations could be negatively affected. in that case, the trading price of the registrant securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. damage to the registrant reputation or brand name could negatively impact the registrant. the registrant reputation for manufacturing high quality products is widely recognized. in order to safeguard that reputation, the registrant has adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure conformity to specification and compliance with law. the registrant also continually makes efforts to increase its brand awareness and relevance, and to maintain and improve relationships with its customers and consumers. a serious breach of the registrant quality assurance or quality control procedures, or deterioration of its quality image, or impairment of its customer or consumer relationships, could have a material negative impact on its financial condition and results of operations. issues regarding procurement of raw materials may negatively impact the registrant. the registrant purchases of raw materials are subject to fluctuations in market price and availability caused by weather, growing and harvesting conditions, market conditions, governmental actions and other factors beyond the registrant control. the most significant raw materials are cheese, pepper, soybean oil, wheat, sweeteners, capsicums, garlic and onion. while future movements of raw material costs are uncertain, the registrant seeks to mitigate the market price risk in a number of ways, including strategic raw material purchases, purchases of raw material for future delivery and customer price adjustments. the registrant has not used derivatives to manage the volatility related to this risk. any actions taken in response to market price fluctuations may not effectively limit or eliminate the registrant exposure to changes in raw material prices. therefore, the registrant cannot provide assurance that future raw material price fluctuations will not have a negative impact on its business, financial condition or operating results. in addition, the registrant may have very little opportunity to mitigate the availability risk of certain raw materials due to the effect of weather on crop yield, political unrest in the producing countries, changes in governmental agricultural programs and other factors beyond the registrant control. therefore, the registrant cannot provide assurance that future raw material availability will not have a negative impact on its business, financial condition or operating results. 5 further, political, socio-economic, and cultural conditions, as well as disruptions caused by terrorist activities, in developing countries create risks for food safety. although the registrant has adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure the safety of its imported products, the registrant cannot provide assurance that such events will not have a negative impact on its business, financial condition or operating results. the registrant profitability may suffer as a result of competition in its markets. the food industry is intensely competitive. competition in the registrant product categories is based on price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing and promotional activity and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. from time to time, the registrant may need to reduce the prices for some of its products to respond to competitive and customer pressures. such pressures also may impair the registrant ability to take appropriate remedial action to address commodity and other cost increases. the registrant operations may be impaired as a result of disasters, business interruptions or similar events. a natural disaster such as an earthquake, fire, flood, or severe storm, or a catastrophic event such as a terrorist attack, an epidemic affecting the registrant operating activities, major facilities, or employees and customers health, or a computer system failure, could cause an interruption or delay in the registrant business and loss of inventory and/or data or render the registrant unable to accept and fulfill customer orders in a timely manner, or at all. in addition, some of the registrant inventory and production facilities are located in areas that are susceptible to harsh weather; a major storm, heavy snowfall or other similar event could prevent the registrant from delivering products in a timely manner. the registrant cannot provide assurance that its disaster recovery plan will address all of the issues it may encounter in the event of a disaster or other unanticipated issue, and the registrant business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate it for losses that may occur from any of the foregoing. in the event that an earthquake, natural disaster, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event were to destroy any part of the registrant facilities or interrupt its operations for any extended period of time, or if harsh weather or health conditions prevent the registrant from delivering products in a timely manner, the registrant business, financial condition and operating results could be seriously harmed. the registrant may not be able to successfully consummate proposed acquisitions or divestitures or integrate acquired businesses. from time to time, the registrant may acquire other businesses and, based on an evaluation of its business portfolio, divest existing businesses. these potential acquisitions and divestitures may present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, increased expenses, assumption of unknown liabilities, and indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. in addition, the registrant may be required to incur asset impairment charges (including charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets) in connection with acquired businesses which may reduce its profitability. if the registrant is unable to consummate these transactions, or successfully integrate and grow acquisitions and achieve contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, its financial results could be adversely affected. 6 the registrant foreign operations are subject to additional risks. the registrant operates its business and markets its products internationally. in 2007, 40 % of the registrant sales were generated in foreign countries. the registrant foreign operations are subject to the risks described in this section, as well as risks related to fluctuations in currency values, foreign currency exchange controls, discriminatory fiscal policies, compliance with foreign laws, enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions and other economic or political uncertainties. in particular, the registrant subsidiaries conduct their businesses in local currency and, for purposes of financial reporting, their results are translated into u.s. dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period. during times of a strengthening u.s. dollar, the registrant reported net revenues and operating income will be reduced because the local currency will translate into fewer u.s. dollars. additionally, international sales are subject to risks related to imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other similar restrictions. all of these risks could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, either of which could adversely affect the registrant profitability. the consolidation of customers may put pressures on the registrant operating margins and profitability. the registrant customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years and consolidation is expected to continue throughout the u.s., the european union and other major markets. such consolidation could present a challenge to margin growth and profitability in that it has produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, resisting price increases, and demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products. these factors and others could have an adverse impact on the registrant future sales growth and profitability. fluctuations in foreign currency markets may negatively impact the registrant. the registrant is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency cash flows primarily related to raw material purchases. most of this exposure is due to foreign operations needing to purchase raw materials in u.s. dollars. the registrant also is exposed to fluctuations in the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. additionally, the registrant is exposed to volatility in the translation of foreign currency earnings to u.s. dollars. primary exposures include the u.s. dollar versus the euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, australian dollar, mexican peso, chinese renminbi and thai baht. on occasion, the registrant may enter into forward and option contracts to manage these foreign currency risks. however, these contracts may not effectively limit or eliminate the registrant exposure to a decline in operating results due to foreign currency exchange changes. therefore, the registrant cannot provide assurance that future exchange rate fluctuations will not have a negative impact on its business, financial position or operating results. increases in interest rates may negatively impact the registrant. the registrant had total outstanding short-term borrowings of approximately $ 149.2 million at an average interest rate of approximately 5.28 % on november 30, 2007. the registrant policy is to manage its interest costs using a mix of fixed and variable rate debt. the registrant also uses interest rate swaps to achieve a desired proportion of fixed and variable rate debt. the registrant utilizes derivative financial instruments to enhance its ability to manage risk, including interest rate exposures that exist as part of its ongoing business operations. the registrant does not enter into contracts for trading purposes, nor is it a party to any leveraged derivative instrument. the registrant use of 7 derivative financial instruments is monitored through regular communication with senior management and the utilization of written guidelines. however, the registrant use of these instruments may not effectively limit or eliminate its exposure to changes in interest rates. therefore, the registrant cannot provide assurance that future interest rate increases will not have a material negative impact on its business, financial position or operating results. the pending acquisition of the assets of lawry may pose risks to the registrant business. the registrant has entered into an asset purchase agreement with conopco, inc. under which the registrant agreed to purchase specified assets used in connection with the manufacturing, marketing, distributing and selling of food products under the lawry and adolph brands, including the lawry and adolph trade names, trademarks, and service marks, and all associated goodwill. there may be risks or costs resulting from the lawry acquisition that are not presently known to the registrant. various factors, including regulatory approval, may delay or prevent us from completing the acquisition and increase the costs associated with the acquisition. for example, the registrant has agreed with conopco to divest its season-all business if the divesture becomes necessary to obtain clearance under the hart-scott-rodino act ( hsr ). the registrant has agreed to pay conopco a $30 million termination fee, subject to certain limited conditions, in the event that hsr clearance is not obtained. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk this information is set forth in the market risk sensitivity section of management discussion and analysis on pages 28 through 30 of the registrant annual report to stockholders for 2007, which pages are incorporated by reference, and in note 7 financial instruments on pages 49 and 50 of the registrant annual report to stockholders for 2007, which pages are incorporated by reference.risk factors the following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. these risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. before you buy our common stock or non-voting common stock, you should know that making such an investment involves some risks, including the risks described below. the risks that have been highlighted here are not the only ones that we face. if any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be negatively affected. in that case, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. damage to our reputation or brand name or loss of brand relevance due to increased private label use by consumers could negatively impact us. our reputation for manufacturing high-quality products is widely recognized. in order to safeguard that reputation, we have adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure conformity to specification and compliance with law. we also continually make efforts to maintain and improve relationships with our customers and consumers and to increase awareness and relevance of our brand through effective marketing and other measures. a serious breach of our quality assurance or quality control procedures, deterioration of our quality image, impairment of our customer or consumer relationships, or failure to adequately protect the relevance of our brand, which may lead to customers or consumers purchasing other brands or private label brands that may or may not be manufactured by us, could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. issues regarding procurement of raw materials may negatively impact us. our purchases of raw materials are subject to fluctuations in market price and availability caused by weather, growing and harvesting conditions, market conditions, governmental actions and other factors beyond our control. the most significant raw materials used by us in our business are cheese, pepper, soybean oil, wheat, capsicums, onion, and garlic. while future movements of raw material costs are uncertain, we seek to mitigate the market price risk in a number of ways, including strategic raw material purchases, purchases of raw material for future delivery, and customer price adjustments. we have not used derivatives to manage the volatility related to this risk. any actions taken in response to market price fluctuations may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to changes in raw material prices. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future raw material price fluctuations will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. in addition, we may have very little opportunity to mitigate the availability risk of certain raw materials due to the effect of weather on crop yield, political unrest in the producing countries, changes in governmental agricultural programs, and other factors beyond our control. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future raw material availability will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, or operating results. further, political, socio-economic, and cultural conditions, as well as disruptions caused by terrorist activities, in developing countries create risks for food safety. although we have adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure the safety of our imported products, we cannot provide assurance that such events will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. - 5 - our profitability may suffer as a result of competition in our markets. the food industry is intensely competitive. competition in our product categories is based on price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing and promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. from time to time, we may need to reduce the prices for some of our products to respond to competitive and customer pressures. such pressures also may impair our ability to take appropriate remedial action to address commodity and other cost increases. our operations may be impaired as a result of disasters, business interruptions or similar events. a natural disaster such as an earthquake, fire, flood, or severe storm, or a catastrophic event such as a terrorist attack, an epidemic affecting our operating activities, major facilities, or employees and customers health, or a computer system failure, could cause an interruption or delay in our business and loss of inventory and/or data or render us unable to accept and fulfill customer orders in a timely manner, or at all. in addition, some of our inventory and production facilities are located in areas that are susceptible to harsh weather; a major storm, heavy snowfall or other similar event could prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner. we cannot provide assurance that our disaster recovery plan will address all of the issues we may encounter in the event of a disaster or other unanticipated issue, and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur from any of the foregoing. in the event that an earthquake, natural disaster, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event were to destroy any part of our facilities or interrupt our operations for any extended period of time, or if harsh weather or health conditions prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be seriously harmed. we may not be able to successfully consummate proposed acquisitions or divestitures or integrate acquired businesses. from time to time, we may acquire other businesses and, based on an evaluation of our business portfolio, divest existing businesses. these potential acquisitions and divestitures may present financial, managerial, and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, increased expenses, assumption of unknown liabilities and indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. in addition, we may be required to incur asset impairment charges (including charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets) in connection with acquired businesses which may reduce its profitability. for example, as reported on the form 8-k filed by us on november 25, 2008, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge representing a reduction in the value of our silvo brand, which was acquired by us in 2004. if we are unable to consummate such transactions, or successfully integrate and grow acquisitions and achieve contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, our financial results could be adversely affected. - 6 - our failure to successfully integrate the recently purchased assets of the lawry business into our existing operations could adversely affect our financial results. on july 31, 2008, we completed our previously announced purchase from conopco, inc., an indirect subsidiary of unilever n.v., of specified assets used in connection with the manufacture, marketing, distribution, and sale of food products under the lawry and adolph &reg; brands. as previously announced, the terms of the order from the federal trade commission for the acquisition required the sale of our season-all business, and in accordance with these terms, on july 31, 2008, we completed the sale of our season-all business to morton international inc. there may be risks or costs resulting from the lawry acquisition that are not presently known to us. various factors may be necessary for us to achieve our objectives with respect to the acquisition and/or avoid increases in the costs associated with the acquisition, including continued customer acceptance of the lawry and adolph product lines, the successful integration of the lawry business into our business, and the completion of transition services agreements with conopco, inc., for the lawry business, and with morton international inc., for the season-all business. our foreign operations are subject to additional risks. we operate our business and market our products internationally. in fiscal year 2008, 42% of our sales were generated in foreign countries. our foreign operations are subject to additional risks, including fluctuations in currency values, foreign currency exchange controls, discriminatory fiscal policies, compliance with foreign laws, enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions, and other economic or political uncertainties. additionally, international sales are subject to risks related to imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other similar restrictions. all of these risks could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, either of which could adversely affect our profitability. fluctuations in foreign currency markets may negatively impact us. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency in the following main areas: cash flows related to raw material purchases; the translation of foreign currency earnings to u.s. dollars; the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. primary exposures include the u.s. dollar versus the euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, australian dollar, mexican peso, chinese renminbi, and thai baht. we routinely enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to facilitate managing foreign currency risks. however, these contracts may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to a decline in operating results due to foreign currency exchange changes. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future exchange rate fluctuations will not have a negative impact on our business, financial position, or operating results. - 7 - the consolidation of customers may put pressures on our operating margins and profitability. our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs, and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years and consolidation is expected to continue throughout the u.s., the european union, and other major markets. such consolidation could present a challenge to margin growth and profitability in that it has produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, resisting price increases, demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products, and shifting shelf space currently used for our products to private label products. these factors and others could have an adverse impact on our future sales growth and profitability. increases in interest rates may negatively impact us. we had total outstanding short-term borrowings of approximately $303.1 million at an average interest rate of approximately 2.1% on november 30, 2008. our policy is to manage our interest rate risk by entering into both fixed and variable rate debt arrangements. we also use interest rate swaps to minimize worldwide financing cost and to achieve a desired mix of fixed and variable rate debt. we utilize derivative financial instruments to enhance our ability to manage risk, including interest rate exposures that exist as part of our ongoing business operations. we do not enter into contracts for trading purposes, nor are we a party to any leveraged derivative instruments. our use of derivative financial instruments is monitored through regular communication with senior management and the utilization of written guidelines. however, our use of these instruments may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to changes in interest rates. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future interest rate increases will not have a material negative impact on our business, financial position, or operating results. the deterioration of credit and capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding. we rely on our revolving credit facilities, or borrowings backed by these facilities, to fund a portion of our seasonal working capital needs and other general corporate purposes. if any of the banks in the syndicates backing these facilities were unable to perform on its commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could adversely affect funding of seasonal working capital requirements. in addition, global capital markets have experienced volatility that has tightened access to capital markets and other sources of funding. in the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time, if at all. our inability to obtain financing on terms and within a time acceptable to us could have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition, and liquidity. - 8 - we face risks associated with certain pension obligations. we hold investments in equity and debt securities in our qualified defined benefit pension plans. a deterioration in the value of plan assets, driven by a decrease in the value of plan assets resulting from general financial downturn or otherwise, could cause (or increase) an underfunded status of our primary defined benefit pension plan, thereby increasing our obligation to make contributions to the plan. for example, from november 2007 to november 2008, our primary u.s. defined benefit pension plan moved from an overfunded to underfunded status driven by decreased plan asset values resulting from the global financial turndown. an obligation to make contributions to pension plans could reduce the cash available for working capital and other corporate uses, and may have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. the global financial downturn exposes us to credit risks from customers and counterparties. consolidations in some of the industries in which our customers operate have created larger customers, some of which are highly leveraged. in addition, competition has increased with the growth in alternative channels through our customer base. these factors have caused some customers to be less profitable and increased our exposure to credit risk. current credit markets are highly volatile, and some of our customers and counterparties are highly leveraged. a significant adverse change in the financial and/or credit position of a customer or counterparty could require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer or counterparty and could limit our ability to collect receivables. this could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and liquidity. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk this information is set forth in the market risk sensitivity section of management discussion and analysis on pages 32 through 34 of our annual report to stockholders for 2008, and in note 8 financial instruments on pages 52 through 54 of our annual report to stockholders for 2008.risk factors the following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. these risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. before you buy our common stock or common stock non-voting, you should know that making such an investment involves some risks, including the risks described below. the risks that have been highlighted here are not the only ones that we face. if any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be negatively affected. in that case, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. damage to our reputation or brand name, loss of brand relevance or increase in private label use by customers or consumers could negatively impact us. our reputation for manufacturing high-quality products is widely recognized. in order to safeguard that reputation, we have adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure conformity to specification and compliance with law. we also continually make efforts to maintain and improve relationships with our customers and consumers and to increase awareness and relevance of our brand through effective marketing and other measures. a serious breach of our quality assurance or quality control procedures, deterioration of our quality image, impairment of our customer or consumer relationships, or failure to adequately protect the relevance of our brand, which may lead to customers or consumers purchasing other brands or private label brands that may or may not be manufactured by us, could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, our customers evaluate their mix of branded and private label product offerings. if a significant portion of our branded business was switched to private label, it could have a significant impact on our consumer business. the consolidation of customers may put pressures on our operating margins and profitability. our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs, and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years and consolidation is expected to continue throughout the u.s., the european union, and other major markets. such consolidation could present a challenge to margin growth and profitability in that it has produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, resisting price increases, demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products, and shifting shelf space currently used for our products to private label products. these factors and others could have an adverse impact on our future sales growth and profitability. 5 issues regarding procurement of raw materials may negatively impact us. our purchases of raw materials are subject to fluctuations in market price and availability caused by weather, growing and harvesting conditions, market conditions, governmental actions and other factors beyond our control. the most significant raw materials used by us in our business are dairy products, pepper, wheat, onion, capsicums, soybean oil, and garlic. while future price movements of raw material costs are uncertain, we seek to mitigate the market price risk in a number of ways, including strategic raw material purchases, purchases of raw material for future delivery, and customer price adjustments. we have not used derivatives to manage the volatility related to this risk. any actions taken in response to market price fluctuations may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to changes in raw material prices. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future raw material price fluctuations will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. in addition, we may have very little opportunity to mitigate the availability risk of certain raw materials due to the effect of weather on crop yield, political unrest in the producing countries, changes in governmental agricultural programs, and other factors beyond our control. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future raw material availability will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, or operating results. further, political, socio-economic, and cultural conditions, as well as disruptions caused by terrorist activities, in developing countries create risks for food safety. although we have adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure the safety of our imported products, we cannot provide assurance that such events will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. our profitability may suffer as a result of competition in our markets. the food industry is intensely competitive. competition in our product categories is based on price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing and promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. from time to time, we may need to reduce the prices for some of our products to respond to competitive and customer pressures. such pressures also may impair our ability to take appropriate remedial action to address commodity and other cost increases. our operations may be impaired as a result of disasters, business interruptions or similar events. a natural disaster such as an earthquake, fire, flood, or severe storm, or a catastrophic event such as a terrorist attack, an epidemic affecting our operating activities, major facilities, or employees and customers health, or a computer system failure, could cause an interruption or delay in our business and loss of inventory and/or data or render us unable to accept and fulfill customer orders in a timely manner, or at all. in addition, some of our inventory and production facilities are located in areas that are susceptible to harsh weather; a major storm, heavy snowfall or other similar event could prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner. 6 we cannot provide assurance that our disaster recovery plan will address all of the issues we may encounter in the event of a disaster or other unanticipated issue, and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur from any of the foregoing. in the event that an earthquake, natural disaster, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event were to destroy any part of our facilities or interrupt our operations for any extended period of time, or if harsh weather or health conditions prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be seriously harmed. we may not be able to successfully consummate proposed acquisitions or divestitures or integrate acquired businesses. from time to time, we may acquire other businesses and, based on an evaluation of our business portfolio, divest existing businesses. these potential acquisitions and divestitures may present financial, managerial, and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, increased expenses, assumption of unknown liabilities and indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. in addition, we may be required to incur asset impairment charges (including charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets) in connection with acquired businesses which may reduce our profitability. if we are unable to consummate such transactions, or successfully integrate and grow acquisitions and achieve contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, our financial results could be adversely affected. our foreign operations are subject to additional risks. we operate our business and market our products internationally. in fiscal year 2009, 38% of our sales were generated in foreign countries. our foreign operations are subject to additional risks, including fluctuations in currency values, foreign currency exchange controls, discriminatory fiscal policies, compliance with u.s. and foreign laws, enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions, and other economic or political uncertainties. additionally, international sales are subject to risks related to imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other similar restrictions. all of these risks could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, either of which could adversely affect our profitability. fluctuations in foreign currency markets may negatively impact us. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency in the following main areas: cash flows related to raw material purchases; the translation of foreign currency earnings to u.s. dollars; the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. primary exposures include the british pound sterling versus the euro, and the u.s. dollar versus the euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, australian dollar, mexican peso, chinese renminbi, and thai baht. we routinely enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to facilitate managing certain of these foreign currency risks. however, these contracts may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to a decline in operating results due to foreign currency exchange changes. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future exchange rate fluctuations will not have a negative impact on our business, financial position, or operating results. 7 increases in interest rates may negatively impact us. we had total outstanding short-term borrowings of approximately $101.2 million at an average interest rate of approximately 0.4% on november 30, 2009. our policy is to manage our interest rate risk by entering into both fixed and variable rate debt arrangements. we also use interest rate swaps to minimize worldwide financing cost and to achieve a desired mix of fixed and variable rate debt. we utilize derivative financial instruments to enhance our ability to manage risk, including interest rate exposures that exist as part of our ongoing business operations. we do not enter into contracts for trading purposes, nor are we a party to any leveraged derivative instruments. our use of derivative financial instruments is monitored through regular communication with senior management and the utilization of written guidelines. however, our use of these instruments may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to changes in interest rates. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future interest rate increases will not have a material negative impact on our business, financial position, or operating results. the deterioration of credit and capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding. we rely on our revolving credit facilities, or borrowings backed by these facilities, to fund a portion of our seasonal working capital needs and other general corporate purposes. if any of the banks in the syndicates backing these facilities were unable to perform on its commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could adversely affect funding of seasonal working capital requirements. the company engages in regular communication with all of the banks participating in our revolving credit facilities. during these communications none of the banks have indicated that they may be unable to perform on their commitments. in addition, management periodically reviews our banking and financing relationships, considering the stability of the institutions, pricing we receive on services, and other aspects of the relationships. based on these communications and our monitoring activities, management believes the likelihood of one of our banks not performing on its commitment is remote. in addition, global capital markets have experienced volatility that has tightened access to capital markets and other sources of funding. in the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time, if at all. our inability to obtain financing on terms and within a time acceptable to us could have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition, and liquidity. we face risks associated with certain pension assets and obligations. we hold investments in equity and debt securities in our qualified defined benefit pension plans and in a rabbi trust for our u.s. non-qualified pension plan. deterioration in the value of plan assets resulting from a general financial downturn or otherwise, could cause (or increase) an 8 underfunded status of our defined benefit pension plans, thereby increasing our obligation to make contributions to the plans. an obligation to make contributions to pension plans could reduce the cash available for working capital and other corporate uses, and may have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. the global financial downturn exposes us to credit risks from customers and counterparties. consolidations in some of the industries in which our customers operate have created larger customers, some of which are highly leveraged. in addition, competition has increased with the growth in alternative channels through our customer base. these factors have caused some customers to be less profitable and increased our exposure to credit risk. current credit markets are volatile, and some of our customers and counterparties are highly leveraged. a significant adverse change in the financial and/or credit position of a customer or counterparty could require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer or counterparty and could limit our ability to collect receivables. this could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and liquidity. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk this information is set forth in the market risk sensitivity section of management discussion and analysis on pages 31 through 33 of our annual report to stockholders for 2009, and in note 7 financial instruments on pages 49 through 52 of our annual report to stockholders for 2009. 11risk factors the following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. these risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. before you buy our common stock or common stock non-voting, you should know that making such an investment involves some risks, including the risks described below. the risks that have been highlighted here are not the only ones that we face. if any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be negatively affected. in that case, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. damage to our reputation or brand name, loss of brand relevance, increase in private label use by customers or consumers, or product quality or safety concerns could negatively impact us. our reputation for manufacturing high-quality products is widely recognized. in order to safeguard that reputation, we have adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure conformity to specification and compliance with law. we also continually make efforts to maintain and improve relationships with our customers and consumers and to increase awareness and relevance of our brand through effective marketing and other measures. a serious breach of our quality assurance or quality control procedures, deterioration of our quality image, impairment of our customer or consumer relationships, or failure to adequately protect the relevance of our brand, which may lead to customers or consumers purchasing other brands or private label brands that may or may not be manufactured by us, could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, our customers evaluate their mix of branded and private label product offerings. if a significant portion of our branded business was switched to private label, it could have a significant impact on our consumer business. the food industry generally is subject to risks posed by food spoilage and contamination, product tampering, product recall, and consumer product liability claims. for instance, we may be required to recall certain of our products should they be mislabeled, contaminated or damaged. we also may become involved in lawsuits and legal proceedings if it is alleged that the consumption of any of our products causes injury or illness. a product recall or an adverse result in any such litigation could cause consumers in our principal markets to lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain products or ingredients, and otherwise have a negative effect on our business and financial results. negative publicity about these concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause disruptions in production or distribution of our products and adversely affect our reputation or brands. the consolidation of customers may put pressures on our operating margins and profitability. our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs, and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years and consolidation is expected to continue throughout the u.s., the european union, and other major markets. such consolidation could present a challenge to margin growth and profitability in that it has produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying 3 power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, resisting price increases, demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products, and shifting shelf space currently used for our products to private label products. these factors and others could have an adverse impact on our future sales growth and profitability. issues regarding procurement of raw materials may negatively impact us. our purchases of raw materials are subject to fluctuations in market price and availability caused by weather, growing and harvesting conditions, market conditions, governmental actions and other factors beyond our control. the most significant raw materials used by us in our business are dairy products, pepper, capsicums, onion, wheat, soybean oil, and garlic. while future price movements of raw material costs are uncertain, we seek to mitigate the market price risk in a number of ways, including strategic raw material purchases, purchases of raw material for future delivery, and customer price adjustments. we have not used derivatives to manage the volatility related to this risk. any actions taken in response to market price fluctuations may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to changes in raw material prices. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future raw material price fluctuations will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. in addition, we may have very little opportunity to mitigate the availability risk of certain raw materials due to the effect of weather on crop yield, political unrest in the producing countries, changes in governmental agricultural programs, and other factors beyond our control. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future raw material availability will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, or operating results. further, political, socio-economic, and cultural conditions, as well as disruptions caused by terrorist activities, in developing countries create risks for food safety. although we have adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure the safety of our imported products, we cannot provide assurance that such events will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. our profitability may suffer as a result of competition in our markets. the food industry is intensely competitive. competition in our product categories is based on price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing and promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. from time to time, we may need to reduce the prices for some of our products to respond to competitive and customer pressures. such pressures also may impair our ability to take appropriate remedial action to address commodity and other cost increases. laws and regulations could adversely affect our business food products are extensively regulated in many of the countries in which we sell our products. the company is subject to numerous food safety and other laws and regulations relating to the manufacture, storage, marketing, advertising, and distribution of food products, including laws and regulations relating to financial reporting requirements, the environment, relations with distributors and retailers, employment, health and safety, and trade practices. enforcement of existing laws and regulations, changes in legal requirements, and/or evolving interpretations of existing regulatory requirements, may result in increased compliance costs and create other obligations, financial or otherwise, that could adversely affect the company business and/or financial results. our operations may be impaired as a result of disasters, business interruptions or similar events. a natural disaster such as an earthquake, fire, flood, or severe storm, or a catastrophic event such as a terrorist attack, an epidemic affecting our operating activities, major facilities, or employees and customers health, or a computer system failure, could cause an interruption or delay in our business and loss of inventory and/or data or render us unable to accept and fulfill customer orders in a timely manner, or at all. in addition, some of our inventory and production facilities are located in areas that are susceptible to harsh weather; a major storm, heavy snowfall or other similar event could prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner. we cannot provide assurance that our disaster recovery plan will address all of the issues we may encounter in the event of a disaster or other unanticipated issue, and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur from any of the foregoing. in the event that an earthquake, natural disaster, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event were to destroy any part of our facilities or interrupt our operations for any extended period of time, or if harsh weather or health conditions prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner, our business, financial condition, and operating results could be seriously harmed. we may not be able to successfully consummate proposed acquisitions or divestitures or integrate acquired businesses. from time to time, we may acquire other businesses and, based on an evaluation of our business portfolio, divest existing businesses. these potential acquisitions and divestitures may present financial, managerial, and operational challenges, including 4 diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, increased expenses, assumption of unknown liabilities and indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. in addition, we may be required to incur asset impairment charges (including charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets) in connection with acquired businesses which may reduce our profitability. if we are unable to consummate such transactions, or successfully integrate and grow acquisitions and achieve contemplated revenue synergies and cost savings, our financial results could be adversely affected. our foreign operations are subject to additional risks. we operate our business and market our products internationally. in fiscal year 2010, 39% of our sales were generated in foreign countries. our foreign operations are subject to additional risks, including fluctuations in currency values, foreign currency exchange controls, discriminatory fiscal policies, compliance with u.s. and foreign laws, enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions, and other economic or political uncertainties. additionally, international sales are subject to risks related to imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other similar restrictions. all of these risks could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, either of which could adversely affect our profitability. fluctuations in foreign currency markets may negatively impact us. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency in the following main areas: cash flows related to raw material purchases; the translation of foreign currency earnings to u.s. dollars; the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. primary exposures include the british pound sterling versus the euro, and the u.s. dollar versus the euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, australian dollar, mexican peso, chinese renminbi, and thai baht. we routinely enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to facilitate managing certain of these foreign currency risks. however, these contracts may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to a decline in operating results due to foreign currency exchange changes. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future exchange rate fluctuations will not have a negative impact on our business, financial position, or operating results. increases in interest rates may negatively impact us. we had total outstanding short-term borrowings of approximately $0.2 million at an average interest rate of approximately 8.8% on november 30, 2010. our policy is to manage our interest rate risk by entering into both fixed and variable rate debt arrangements. we also use interest rate swaps to minimize worldwide financing cost and to achieve a desired mix of fixed and variable rate debt. we utilize derivative financial instruments to enhance our ability to manage risk, including interest rate exposures that exist as part of our ongoing business operations. we do not enter into contracts for trading purposes, nor are we a party to any leveraged derivative instruments. our use of derivative financial instruments is monitored through regular communication with senior management and the utilization of written guidelines. however, our use of these instruments may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to changes in interest rates. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future interest rate increases will not have a material negative impact on our business, financial position, or operating results. the deterioration of credit and capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding. we rely on our revolving credit facilities, or borrowings backed by these facilities, to fund a portion of our seasonal working capital needs and other general corporate purposes. if any of the banks in the syndicates backing these facilities were unable to perform on its commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could adversely affect funding of seasonal working capital requirements. the company engages in regular communication with all of the banks participating in our revolving credit facilities. during these communications none of the banks have indicated that they may be unable to perform on their commitments. in addition, management periodically reviews our banking and financing relationships, considering the stability of the institutions, pricing we receive on services, and other aspects of the relationships. based on these communications and our monitoring activities, management believes the likelihood of one of our banks not performing on its commitment is remote. in addition, global capital markets have experienced volatility that has tightened access to capital markets and other sources of funding. in the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time, if at all. our inability to obtain financing on terms and within a time acceptable to us could have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition, and liquidity. we face risks associated with certain pension assets and obligations. we hold investments in equity and debt securities in our qualified defined benefit pension plans and in a rabbi trust for our u.s. non-qualified pension plan. deterioration in the value of plan assets resulting from a general financial downturn or otherwise, could cause (or increase) an underfunded status of our defined benefit pension plans, thereby increasing our obligation to make contributions to the plans. an obligation to make contributions to pension plans could reduce the cash available for working capital and other 5 corporate uses, and may have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. the global financial downturn exposes us to credit risks from customers and counterparties. consolidations in some of the industries in which our customers operate have created larger customers, some of which are highly leveraged. in addition, competition has increased with the growth in alternative channels through our customer base. these factors have caused some customers to be less profitable and increased our exposure to credit risk. current credit markets are volatile, and some of our customers and counterparties are highly leveraged. a significant adverse change in the financial and/or credit position of a customer or counterparty could require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer or counterparty and could limit our ability to collect receivables. this could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and liquidity. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk this information is set forth in the market risk sensitivity section of management discussion and analysis on pages 27 through 29 of our annual report to stockholders for 2010, and in note 7 financial instruments on pages 44 through 46 of our annual report to stockholders for 2010.risk factors the following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. these risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k because these factors could cause the actual results and conditions to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. before you buy our common stock or common stock non-voting, you should know that making such an investment involves some risks, including the risks described below. if any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be negatively affected. in that case, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. damage to our reputation or brand name, loss of brand relevance, increase in private label use by customers or consumers, or product quality or safety concerns could negatively impact us. our reputation for manufacturing high-quality products is widely recognized. in order to safeguard that reputation, we have adopted rigorous quality assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure conformity to specification and compliance with law. we also continually make efforts to maintain and improve relationships with our customers and consumers and to increase awareness and relevance of our brands 4 through effective marketing and other measures. a serious breach of our quality assurance or quality control procedures, deterioration of our quality image, impairment of our customer or consumer relationships, or failure to adequately protect the relevance of our brands, which may lead to customers or consumers purchasing other brands or private label brands that may or may not be manufactured by us, could have a material negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, our customers evaluate their mix of branded and private label product offerings. if a significant portion of our branded business was switched to private label, it could have a significant impact on our consumer business. the food industry generally is subject to risks posed by food spoilage and contamination, product tampering, product recall and consumer product liability claims. for instance, we may be required to recall certain of our products should they be mislabeled, contaminated or damaged. we also may become involved in lawsuits and legal proceedings if it is alleged that the consumption of any of our products causes injury or illness. a product recall or an adverse result in any such litigation could cause consumers in our principal markets to lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain products or ingredients, and otherwise have a negative effect on our business and financial results. negative publicity about these concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause disruptions in production or distribution of our products and adversely affect our reputation or brands. the consolidation of customers may put pressure on our operating margins and profitability. our customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs, and food distributors, have consolidated in recent years and consolidation could continue throughout the u.s., the european union and other major markets. such consolidation could present a challenge to margin growth and profitability in that it has produced large, sophisticated customers with increased buying power who are more capable of operating with reduced inventories, resisting price increases, demanding lower pricing, increased promotional programs and specifically tailored products, and shifting shelf space currently used for our products to private label products. these factors and others could have an adverse impact on our future sales growth and profitability. issues regarding procurement of raw materials may negatively impact us. our purchases of raw materials are subject to fluctuations in market price and availability caused by weather, growing and harvesting conditions, market conditions, governmental actions and other factors beyond our control. the most significant raw materials used by us in our business are dairy products, pepper, garlic, onion, capsicums (red pepper and paprika), soybean oil and wheat. while future price movements of raw material costs are uncertain, we seek to mitigate the market price risk in a number of ways, including strategic raw material purchases, purchases of raw material for future delivery and customer price adjustments. we generally have not used derivatives to manage the volatility related to this risk. to the extent that we have used derivatives for this purpose, it has not been material to our business. any actions we take in response to market price fluctuations may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to changes in raw material prices. therefore we cannot provide assurance that future raw material price fluctuations will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. in addition, we may have very little opportunity to mitigate the risk of availability of certain raw materials due to the effect of weather on crop yield, government actions, political unrest in producing countries, changes in agricultural programs and other factors beyond our control. therefore we cannot provide assurance that future raw material availability will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, or operating results. political, socio-economic and cultural conditions, as well as disruptions caused by terrorist activities, could also create additional risks for food safety. although we have adopted rigorous quality 5 assurance and quality control procedures which are designed to ensure the safety of our imported products, we cannot provide assurance that such events will not have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. our profitability may suffer as a result of competition in our markets. the food industry is intensely competitive. competition in our product categories is based on price, product innovation, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing and promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. from time to time, we may need to reduce the prices for some of our products to respond to competitive and customer pressures, which may adversely affect our profitability. such pressures also may impair our ability to take appropriate remedial action to address commodity and other cost increases. laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. food products are extensively regulated in many of the countries in which we sell our products. we are subject to numerous food safety and other laws and regulations relating to the sourcing, manufacture, storage, marketing, advertising, and distribution of food products, including laws and regulations relating to financial reporting requirements, the environment, relations with distributors and retailers, employment, health and safety and trade practices. enforcement of existing laws and regulations, changes in legal requirements, and/or evolving interpretations of existing regulatory requirements, may result in increased compliance costs and create other obligations, financial or otherwise, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. our operations may be impaired as a result of disasters, business interruptions or similar events. we could have an interruption in our business, loss of inventory or data, be rendered unable to accept and fulfill customer orders as a result of a natural disaster, catastrophic event, epidemic or computer system failure. natural disasters could include an earthquake, fire, flood, tornado or severe storm. a catastrophic event could include a terrorist attack. an epidemic could affect our operating activities, major facilities or employees and customers health. in addition, some of our inventory and production facilities are located in areas that are susceptible to harsh weather; a major storm, heavy snowfall or other similar event could prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner. production of certain of our products is concentrated in a single manufacturing site. we cannot provide assurance that our disaster recovery plan will address all of the issues we may encounter in the event of a disaster or other unanticipated issue, and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur from any of the foregoing. in the event that a natural disaster, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event were to destroy any part of our facilities or interrupt our operations for any extended period of time, or if harsh weather or health conditions prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. we may not be able to successfully consummate proposed acquisitions or divestitures or integrate acquired businesses. from time to time, we may acquire other businesses and, based on an evaluation of our business portfolio, divest existing businesses. these potential acquisitions and divestitures may present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, increased expenses, assumption of unknown liabilities and indemnities and potential disputes with the buyers or sellers. in addition, we may be required to incur asset impairment charges (including charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets) in connection with acquired businesses which may reduce our profitability. if we are unable to consummate such transactions, or successfully integrate and grow acquisitions and achieve contemplated 6 revenue synergies and cost savings, our financial results could be adversely affected. our foreign operations are subject to additional risks. we operate our business and market our products internationally. in fiscal year 2011, 40% of our sales were generated in foreign countries. our foreign operations are subject to additional risks, including fluctuations in currency values, foreign currency exchange controls, discriminatory fiscal policies, compliance with u.s. and foreign laws, enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions and other economic or political uncertainties. beginning in 2011, several countries within the european union experienced sovereign debt and credit issues. this has caused more volatility in the economic environment throughout the european union. additionally, international sales are subject to risks related to imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other similar restrictions. all of these risks could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, which could adversely affect our profitability. fluctuations in foreign currency markets may negatively impact us. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency in the following main areas: cash flows related to raw material purchases; the translation of foreign currency earnings to u.s. dollars; the value of foreign currency investments in subsidiaries and unconsolidated affiliates and cash flows related to repatriation of these investments. primary exposures include the british pound sterling versus the euro, and the u.s. dollar versus the euro, british pound sterling, canadian dollar, polish zloty, australian dollar, mexican peso, chinese renminbi, indian rupee and thai baht. we routinely enter into foreign currency exchange contracts to facilitate managing certain of these foreign currency risks. however, these contracts may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to a decline in operating results due to foreign currency exchange changes. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future exchange rate fluctuations will not have a negative impact on our business, financial position or operating results. increases in interest rates may negatively impact us. we had total outstanding short-term borrowings of $217 million at an average interest rate of approximately 0.2% on november 30, 2011. our policy is to manage our interest rate risk by entering into both fixed and variable rate debt arrangements. we also use interest rate swaps to minimize worldwide financing cost and to achieve a desired mix of fixed and variable rate debt. we utilize derivative financial instruments to enhance our ability to manage risk, including interest rate exposures that exist as part of our ongoing business operations. we do not enter into contracts for trading purposes, nor are we a party to any leveraged derivative instruments. our use of derivative financial instruments is monitored through regular communication with senior management and the utilization of written guidelines. however, our use of these instruments may not effectively limit or eliminate our exposure to changes in interest rates. therefore, we cannot provide assurance that future interest rate increases will not have a material negative impact on our business, financial position, or operating results. the deterioration of credit and capital markets may adversely affect our access to sources of funding. we rely on our revolving credit facilities, or borrowings backed by these facilities, to fund a portion of our seasonal working capital needs and other general corporate purposes. if any of the banks in the syndicates backing these facilities were unable to perform on its commitments, our liquidity could be impacted, which could adversely affect funding of seasonal working capital requirements. our syndicate of banks include certain european banks that could be affected by the current volatile credit market in the european union. we engage in regular communication with all of the banks participating in our revolving credit facilities. during these communications none of the banks have indicated that they may be unable to perform on their commitments. in addition, we periodically review our banking and financing relationships, considering the stability of the institutions, pricing we receive on services, and other aspects of the 7 relationships. based on these communications and our monitoring activities, we believe the likelihood of one of our banks not performing on its commitment is remote. in addition, global capital markets have experienced volatility that has tightened access to capital markets and other sources of funding. in the event we need to access the capital markets or other sources of financing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time. our inability to obtain financing on acceptable terms or within an acceptable time period could have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. we face risks associated with certain pension assets and obligations. we hold investments in equity and debt securities in our qualified defined benefit pension plans and in a rabbi trust for our u.s. non-qualified pension plan. deterioration in the value of plan assets resulting from a general financial downturn or otherwise, could cause (or increase) an underfunded status of our defined benefit pension plans, thereby increasing our obligation to make contributions to the plans. an obligation to make contributions to pension plans could reduce the cash available for working capital and other corporate uses, and may have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. the global financial downturn exposes us to credit risks from customers and counterparties. consolidations in some of the industries in which our customers operate have created larger customers, some of which are highly leveraged. in addition, competition has increased with the growth in alternative channels through our customer base. these factors have caused some customers to be less profitable and increased our exposure to credit risk. current credit markets are volatile, and some of our customers and counterparties are highly leveraged. a significant adverse change in the financial and/or credit position of a customer or counterparty could require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer or counterparty and could limit our ability to collect receivables. this could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and liquidity. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk this information is set forth in the market risk sensitivity section of management discussion and analysis and in note 6 of the financial statements. 28