risk factors 34 risk factors economic environment and capital markets-related risks if difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally persist, they may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations our business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally. stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in financial asset classes or various markets, including global capital markets, can have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and our insurance liabilities are sensitive to changing market factors. global market factors, including interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, deflation and inflation can all affect our financial condition, as well as the volume, profitability and results of our business operations, either directly or by virtue of their impact on the business and economic environment generally and on general levels of economic activity, employment and customer behavior specifically. disruptions in one market or asset class can also spread to other markets or asset classes. upheavals in the financial markets can also affect our financial condition (including our liquidity and capital levels) as a result of mismatched impacts on the value of our assets and our liabilities. while our diversified business mix and geographically diverse business operations partially mitigate these risks, correlation across regions, countries and global market factors may reduce the benefits of diversification. at times throughout the past few years, volatile conditions have characterized financial markets. significant market volatility, and government actions taken in response, may exacerbate some of the risks we face. concerns about economic conditions, capital markets and the solvency of certain eu member states, their banking systems and the financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by these countries or significant exposure to their banking systems, have caused elevated levels of market volatility. this market volatility has affected the performance of various asset classes at various times, and it could continue until there is an ultimate resolution of these sovereign debt and banking system-related concerns. concerns about sovereign debt sustainability have also expanded to other eu member states, which resulted in credit ratings downgrades or adverse credit ratings outlook changes for certain eu member states and the eu itself. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment. the financial markets have also been affected by concerns over u.s. fiscal and monetary policy. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends financial and economic environment. any of these concerns could have significant adverse effects on the economic and financial markets generally. 34 table of contents to the extent these uncertain financial market conditions persist, our revenues and net investment income are likely to remain under pressure. similarly, sustained periods of low interest rates could cause our profit margins to erode. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends impact of a sustained low interest rate environment. also, in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the recent global credit crisis, we could incur significant capital and/or operating losses due to, among other reasons, losses incurred in our general account and as a result of the impact on us of guarantees and/or collateral requirements associated with our captive reinsurers and other similar arrangements. even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. we are a significant writer of variable insurance products and certain other products issued through separate accounts. the account values of these products decrease as a result of declining equity markets. lower interest rates generally increase account values in the near term, but may result in lower returns in fixed income options in the future. decreases in account values reduce fees generated by these products, cause the amortization of dac to accelerate, could increase the level of insurance liabilities we must carry to support such products issued with any associated guarantees and could require us to provide additional funding to our captive reinsurers. in an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. group insurance, in particular, is affected by higher unemployment rates. in addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. furthermore, our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. such adverse changes in the economy could negatively affect our earnings and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the recent financial crisis has precipitated, and may continue to raise the possibility of, legislative, judicial, regulatory and other governmental actions. see regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth, and risks related to our business competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability below. adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, our access to capital and our cost of capital the capital and credit markets may be subject to periods of extreme volatility and disruption, which could cause our liquidity and credit capacity to be limited. we need liquidity to pay claims and other operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock, provide our subsidiaries with cash or collateral, maintain our securities lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities. without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail our operations, and our business and financial results may suffer. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources. in the event market or other conditions have an adverse impact on our capital and liquidity, or our stress-testing indicates that such conditions could have such an impact beyond expectations and our current resources do not satisfy our needs or regulatory requirements, we may have to seek additional financing. the availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as the then current market conditions, regulatory considerations, availability of credit to us and the financial services industry generally, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and the perception of our customers and lenders regarding our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large operating or investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to a market downturn. similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient and, in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. our liquidity requirements may change if, among other things, we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral on short notice under securities lending agreements. see investments-related risks should the need arise, we may have difficulty selling certain holdings in our investment portfolio or in our securities lending program in a timely manner and realizing full value given their illiquid nature and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments securities lending. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital needed to operate our business, most significantly in our insurance operations. such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy regulatory capital requirements; and access the capital necessary to grow our business. as a result, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue different types of securities than we would have otherwise, less effectively deploy such capital, issue shorter tenor securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. 35 table of contents we are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risks which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and may cause our net investment income to vary from period to period we are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risks, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, market volatility, global economic performance in general, the performance of specific obligors, including governments, included in our investment portfolio and other factors outside our control. interest rate risk some of our products, principally traditional whole life insurance, fixed annuities and guaranteed interest contracts, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our investment margin or spread, or the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts in our general account and the rate of return we earn on general account investments intended to support obligations under such contracts. our spread is a key component of our net income. in a low interest rate environment, we may be forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, which will reduce our investment margin. moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the fixed income securities and commercial or agricultural mortgage loans in our investment portfolio with greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates, thereby exacerbating this risk. although lowering interest crediting rates can help offset decreases in spreads on some products, our ability to lower these rates could be limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. as a result, our spread could decrease or potentially become negative. see risks related to our business guarantees within certain of our products may decrease our earnings, increase the volatility of our results, result in higher risk management costs and expose us to increased counterparty risk. our expectation for future spreads is an important component in the amortization of dac and voba. significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period. in addition, during periods of declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be relatively more attractive investments to consumers. this could result in increased premium payments on products with flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans and increased persistency, or a higher percentage of insurance policies remaining in-force from year to year, during a period when our new investments carry lower returns. a decline in market interest rates could also reduce our return on investments that do not support particular policy obligations. during periods of sustained lower interest rates, policy liabilities may not be sufficient to meet future policy obligations and may need to be strengthened. accordingly, declining and sustained lower interest rates may materially affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows and significantly reduce our profitability. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends impact of a sustained low interest rate environment. as a global insurance company, we are also affected by the monetary policies of the federal reserve board and of central banks around the world. the federal reserve board has taken a number of actions in recent years to spur economic activity by keeping interest rates low, and, more recently, through its asset purchase programs; and may take further action to influence rates in the future. such actions may have an impact on the pricing levels of risk-bearing investments, and may adversely impact the level of product sales. central banks in other parts of the world have also taken action to lower interest rates. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment. for a discussion of the impact of the low interest rate environment on us, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends impact of a sustained low interest rate environment. 36 table of contents increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect our profitability. in periods of rapidly increasing interest rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, the investments in our general account with higher yielding investments needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep interest sensitive products competitive. we therefore may have to accept a lower spread and, thus, lower profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of existing contracts and related assets. in addition, policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals may tend to increase as policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns as interest rates rise. this process may result in cash outflows requiring that we sell investments at a time when the prices of those investments are adversely affected by the increase in market interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses. unanticipated withdrawals and terminations may cause us to accelerate the amortization of dac and voba, which reduces net income and may also cause us to accelerate negative voba, which increases net income. an increase in market interest rates could also have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the estimated fair values of the fixed income securities that comprise a substantial portion of our investment portfolio. finally, an increase in interest rates could result in decreased fee income associated with a decline in the value of variable annuity account balances invested in fixed income funds. however, this increase in interest rates would typically cause any guaranteed living benefits to decline in value. we cannot predict how market interest rates will respond to the reduction, or tapering, of the pace of the federal reserve board's federal open market committee asset purchases. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends impact of a sustained low interest rate environment. we manage interest rate risk as part of our asset and liability management strategies, which include maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration that is approximately equal to the duration of our estimated liability cash flow profile. we also use derivatives to mitigate interest rate risk. although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our fixed income investments relative to our liabilities. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. credit spreads our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price volatility and cash flow variability associated with changes in such spreads. market volatility can make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent. in such case, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period-to-period changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if there is a resumption of significant volatility in the markets, it could cause changes in credit spreads and defaults and a lack of pricing transparency which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. see also management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments investment risks. equity risk our primary exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with certain of our businesses where fee income is earned based upon the estimated fair value of the assets under management. downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a material adverse effect on the revenues and investment returns from our savings and investment products and services. the retail variable annuity business in particular is highly sensitive to equity markets, and a sustained weakness in the equity markets could decrease revenues and earnings with respect to those products. furthermore, certain of our variable annuity products offer guaranteed benefits which increase our potential benefit exposure should equity markets decline. we use derivatives and reinsurance to mitigate the impact of such increased potential benefit exposures. we are also exposed to interest rate and equity risk based upon the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return assumptions associated with our pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. sustained declines in long-term interest rates or equity returns likely would have a negative effect on the funded status of these plans. in addition, we invest a portion of our investments in leveraged buy-out funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds. the amount and timing of net investment income from such funds tends to be uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying investments. the timing of distributions from such funds, which depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds' schedules for making distributions and their needs for cash, can be difficult to predict. as a result, the amount of net investment income from these investments can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. significant volatility could adversely impact returns and net investment income on these alternative investment classes. in addition, the estimated fair value of such investments may be impacted by downturns or volatility in equity markets. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 37 table of contents real estate risk our primary exposure to real estate risk relates to commercial, agricultural and residential real estate. our exposure to these risks stems from various factors, including the supply and demand of leasable commercial space, creditworthiness of tenants and partners, capital markets volatility and interest rate fluctuations. although we manage credit risk and market valuation risk for our commercial, agricultural and residential real estate assets through geographic, property type and product type diversification, and asset allocation, general economic conditions and the recovery rate in the commercial, agricultural and residential real estate sectors will continue to influence the performance of these investments. these factors, which are beyond our control, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. obligor-related risks our investment portfolio contains investments in government bonds issued by certain eu member states, including portugal, ireland, italy, greece, spain and cyprus, and of financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by these countries. recently, the eu member states have experienced above average public debt and unemployment and lower than targeted inflation. a number of member states are significantly impacted by the economies of their more influential neighbors, such as germany, and financial troubles of one nation can lead to troubles in others. in particular, a number of large european banks hold significant amounts of sovereign and/or financial institution debt of other european nations and could experience difficulties as a result of defaults or declines in the value of such debt. concerns regarding these difficulties could disrupt the functioning of the financial markets. our investment portfolio also contains investments, primarily in revenue bonds issued under the auspices of u.s. states and municipalities, and a limited amount of general obligation bonds of u.s. states and municipalities (collectively, state and political subdivision securities ). recently, certain u.s. states and municipalities have faced budget deficits and financial difficulties. the financial difficulties of such u.s. states and municipalities could have an adverse impact on our state and political subdivision securities. foreign currency exchange rate risks our primary foreign currency exchange rate risks are described under risks related to our business fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our profitability. changes in foreign currency exchange rates can significantly affect our net investment income in any period, and such changes can be substantial. this risk will increase if a country withdraws from the euro zone. in such case, the national currency to which such a country may revert will likely be devalued and contracts using the euro will need to be renegotiated. any such devaluation and its related consequences for our contracts and investments in any such country could be significant and materially adversely affect our operations and earnings in that country. any operations we may have in any such withdrawing country could also be materially adversely affected by legal or governmental actions related to conversion from the euro to a national currency. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. summary significant volatility in the markets could cause changes in interest rates, declines in equity prices, and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses, impairments, increased valuation allowances and changes in unrealized gain or loss positions. regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth our insurance operations and brokerage businesses are subject to a wide variety of insurance and other laws and regulations. see business u.s. regulation and business international regulation, as supplemented by discussions of regulatory developments in our subsequently filed quarterly reports on form 10-q under the caption management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends regulatory developments, and as further supplemented below. 38 table of contents insurance regulation u.s. state insurance regulators and the naic regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, that are made for the benefit of the consumer sometimes lead to additional expense for the insurer and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. recently, the naic and state insurance regulators have been scrutinizing insurance companies' use of affiliated captive reinsurers or off-shore entities, and the department of financial services in june 2013 issued a highly critical report setting forth its findings to date relating to its inquiry into the life insurance industry's use of captive insurance companies. in its report, the department of financial services recommended that (i) the naic develop enhanced disclosure requirements for reserve financing transactions involving captive insurers, (ii) the fio, the ofr, the naic and state insurance commissioners conduct inquiries similar to the department of financial services inquiry, and (iii) state insurance commissioners consider an immediate national moratorium on new reserve financing transactions involving captive insurers until these inquiries are complete. like many life insurance companies, we utilize captive reinsurers to satisfy reserve and capital requirements related to universal life and term life insurance policies. we also cede variable annuity risks to a captive reinsurer, which allows us to consolidate hedging and other risk management programs. if the department of financial services or other state insurance regulators restrict the use of such captive reinsurers or if we otherwise are unable to continue to use captive reinsurers in the future, our ability to write certain products or to hedge the associated risks efficiently and/or our rbc ratios and ability to deploy excess capital, could be adversely affected, or we may need to increase prices on those products, which could adversely impact our competitive position and our results of operations. see business u.s. regulation holding company regulation insurance regulatory examinations and note 16 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. for more information on our use of captive reinsurers, see also management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company capital affiliated captive reinsurance transactions. the naic is also reviewing life insurers' use of non-variable separate accounts that are insulated from general account claims, which might lead to a recommendation against the allowance of insulation for certain of our separate account products. if state insurance regulators change applicable laws or regulations in accordance with such recommendation, our use of insulation for certain products could be impaired and our ability to compete effectively or do business in certain markets may be adversely affected. in addition, our financial results may also be adversely affected. see business u.s. regulation holding company regulation insurance regulatory examinations. u.s. federal regulation affecting insurance currently, the u.s. federal government does not directly regulate the business of insurance. however, dodd-frank established the fio within the department of the treasury, which has the authority to participate in the negotiations of international insurance agreements with foreign regulators for the u.s., as well as to collect information about the insurance industry and recommend prudential standards. on december 12, 2013, the fio issued a report, mandated by dodd-frank, setting forth recommendations with respect to modernization of insurance regulation in the united states. the report raised the possibility of a greater role for the federal government if states do not achieve greater uniformity in their laws and regulations. we cannot predict whether any such legislation or regulatory changes will be adopted, or what impact they will have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see business u.s. regulation holding company regulation federal initiatives. federal legislation and administrative policies can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies, including policies regarding financial services regulation, securities regulation, derivatives regulation, pension regulation, health care regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. in addition, various forms of direct and indirect federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time, including proposals for the establishment of an optional federal charter for insurance companies. other aspects of our insurance operations could also be affected by dodd-frank. for example, under the so-called volcker rule, dodd-frank authorizes the federal reserve board to impose additional capital requirements and quantitative limits on certain trading and activities by a non-bank sifi. metlife, inc. could be subject to such requirements and limits were it to be designated as a non-bank sifi. see business u.s. regulation potential regulation as a non-bank sifi. non-bank sifis and certain other large financial companies can be assessed under dodd-frank for any uncovered costs arising in connection with the resolution of a systemically important financial company and to cover the expenses of the ofr, an agency established by dodd-frank to improve the quality of financial data available to policymakers and facilitate more robust and sophisticated analysis of the financial system. 39 table of contents federal regulatory agencies dodd-frank established the cfpb, which supervises and regulates institutions providing certain financial products and services to consumers. although the consumer financial services to which this legislation applies exclude insurance business of the kind in which we engage, the cfpb has authority to regulate non-insurance consumer services provided by metlife. see business u.s. regulation consumer protection laws. metlife, inc.'s subsidiary, mlhl, which merged with metlife, inc.'s former subsidiary metlife bank, is regulated by the cfpb. while metlife, inc. has de-registered as a bank holding company, it may, in the future, be designated by the fsoc as a non-bank sifi, as more fully discussed below, and could once again be subject to regulation by the federal reserve board and subject to enhanced supervision and prudential standards. see business u.s. regulation potential regulation as a non-bank sifi enhanced prudential standards for non-bank sifis. the fsoc follows a three-stage process to assess whether a non-bank financial company should be subject to enhanced supervision by the federal reserve board as a non-bank sifi. on july 16, 2013, metlife was notified by the fsoc that it had reached stage 3 in the process to determine whether metlife, inc. would be named a non-bank sifi. we have been providing information to the fsoc to assist it in its evaluation of metlife, inc. regulation of metlife, inc. as a non-bank sifi could materially and adversely affect our business. in december 2011, the federal reserve board proposed regulation yy that would apply a set of prudential standards to non-bank sifis, including enhanced rbc requirements, leverage limits, liquidity requirements, single counterparty exposure limits, governance requirements for risk management, stress test requirements, special debt-to-equity limits for certain companies, early remediation procedures, and recovery and resolution planning. the federal reserve board's proposal contemplates that these standards would be subject to the authority of the federal reserve board to determine, on its own or in response to a recommendation by the fsoc, to tailor the application of the enhanced standards to different companies on an individual basis or by category, taking into consideration their capital structure, riskiness, complexity, financial activities, size, and any other risk-related factors that the federal reserve board deems appropriate. on february 18, 2014, the federal reserve board adopted amendments to regulation yy to implement certain of the enhanced prudential standards for bank holding companies and foreign banking organizations with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more. while regulation yy, as originally proposed, would have applied to non-bank sifis, the final rule does not, but the federal reserve board has indicated that it plans to apply enhanced prudential standards to non-bank sifis by rule or order. see business u.s. regulation potential regulation as a non-bank sifi enhanced prudential standards for non-bank sifis. accordingly, the manner in which these proposed standards might apply to metlife, inc. remains unclear. the federal reserve board has stated that it believes other provisions of dodd-frank, known as the collins amendment, constrain its ability to tailor capital standards for non-bank sifis. in the wake of the recent financial crisis, other national and international authorities have also proposed measures intended to increase the intensity of regulation of large financial institutions, requiring greater coordination among regulators and efforts to harmonize regulatory regimes. for example, the iais is participating in the fsb's initiative to identify global systemically important financial institutions and has devised and published a methodology to assess the systemic relevance of global insurers and has published a framework of policy measures to be applied to g-siis. in july 2013, the fsb published its initial list of nine g-siis, based on the iais' assessment methodology, which includes metlife, inc. the fsb has directed the iais to develop g-sii bcr, as the basis for the calculation of additional capital by the end of 2014; the iais has indicated that it expects the bcr to apply to g-siis in 2015 or shortly thereafter. in addition, the iais has confirmed that it will develop a risk-based global insurance capital standard by 2016 which will apply to all internationally active insurance groups, including g-siis, with implementation to begin in 2019 after two years of testing and refinement. the iais policy measures would need to be implemented by legislation or regulation in each applicable jurisdiction, and the impact on metlife, inc. and other designated g-siis in the u.s., is uncertain. see business international regulation global systemically important insurers. if such measures were adopted, including as a result of our potential designation as a non-bank sifi, they could materially adversely affect our ability to conduct business, our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends, repurchase common stock or other securities or engage in other transactions that could affect our capital. enhanced capital requirements could adversely affect our ability to compete with other insurers that are not subject to those requirements, and our ability to issue guarantees could be constrained. we could have to raise the price of the products we offer, reduce the amount of risk we take on, or stop offering certain products altogether. further, counterparty exposure limits could affect our ability to engage in hedging activities. the federal reserve board could also have the right to require that any of our insurance companies, or insurance company affiliates, take prompt action to correct any financial weaknesses. in the event that metlife is designated as a non-bank sifi, we may elect to contest such designation using all available remedies under dodd-frank or otherwise. if ultimately designated as a non-bank sifi, we will consider such structural and other business alternatives that may be available to us in response to such a designation, and we cannot predict the impact that any such alternatives, if implemented, may have on the company or its security holders. 40 table of contents mortgage and foreclosure-related exposures state and federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities have initiated various inquiries, investigations and examinations of alleged irregularities in the foreclosure practices of the residential mortgage servicing industry, mortgage origination and mortgage servicing practices. while we have reached settlements with some regulators relating to our mortgage servicing activities, it is possible that pending or additional inquiries, investigations or examinations may result in further monetary payments or other measures against us. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends mortgage and foreclosure-related exposures. regulation of brokers and dealers dodd-frank also authorizes the sec to establish a standard of conduct applicable to brokers and dealers when providing personalized investment advice to retail and other customers. this standard of conduct would be to act in the best interest of the customer without regard to the financial or other interest of the broker or dealer providing the advice. see business u.s. regulation securities, broker-dealer and investment adviser regulation. erisa considerations we provide products and services to certain employee benefit plans that are subject to erisa or the code. consequently, our activities are likewise subject to the restrictions imposed by erisa and the code, including the requirement that fiduciaries must perform their duties solely in the interests of erisa plan participants and beneficiaries, and the requirement under erisa and the code that fiduciaries may not cause a plan to engage in prohibited transactions with persons who have certain relationships with respect to those plans. the prohibited transaction rules generally restrict the provision of investment advice to erisa plans and participants and iras if the investment recommendation results in fees paid to the individual advisor, his or her firm or their affiliates that vary according to the investment recommendation chosen. regulations adopted in october 2011 in this area provide some relief from these investment advice restrictions. if additional relief is not provided, the ability of our affiliated broker-dealers and their registered representatives to provide investment advice to erisa plans and participants and iras would likely be significantly restricted. other proposed regulations in this area may negatively impact the current business model of our broker-dealers, including proposed changes to broaden the definition of fiduciary, thereby increasing the regulation of persons providing investment advice to erisa plans and iras. these proposed regulations are expected in 2014. see business u.s. regulation employee retirement income security act of 1974 ( erisa ) considerations. international regulation our international insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. a significant portion of our revenue is generated through operations in foreign jurisdictions, including many countries in early stages of economic and political development. our international operations may be materially adversely affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and regulators, such as through nationalization or expropriation of assets, the imposition of limits on foreign ownership of local companies, changes in laws (including tax laws and regulations), their application or interpretation, political instability, dividend limitations, price controls, changes in applicable currency, currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold to u.s. dollars or other currencies. this may also impact many of our customers and independent sales intermediaries. changes in the laws and regulations that affect these customers and independent sales intermediaries also may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or distribute our products. accordingly, these changes and actions may negatively affect our business in these jurisdictions. we expect the scope and extent of regulation outside of the u.s., as well as general regulatory oversight, to continue to increase. the authority of our international operations to conduct business is subject to licensing requirements, permits and approvals, and these authorizations are subject to modification and revocation. the regulatory environment in the countries in which we operate and changes in laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. see business international regulation and risks related to our business our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability. 41 table of contents we are also subject to the evolving solvency ii insurance regulatory directive established by the european parliament in 2009 for our insurance business throughout the european economic area, and may be subject to similar solvency regulations in other regions, such as mexico and chile. see business international regulation solvency ii. as requirements are finalized by the regulators, capital requirements might be impacted in a number of jurisdictions. in addition, our legal entity structure throughout europe may impact our capital requirements, risk management infrastructure and reporting by country. general from time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations or audits of metlife, inc.'s regulated subsidiaries that could, if determined adversely, have a material impact on us. in addition, the interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements. we are also subject to other regulations and may in the future become subject to additional regulations. compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the dodd-frank provisions compelling the liquidation of certain types of financial institutions could materially and adversely affect metlife, inc., as a potential non-bank sifi and an investor in other financial institutions, and our investors under provisions of dodd-frank, if metlife, inc. is designated a non-bank sifi and it were to become insolvent or were in danger of defaulting on its obligations, it could be compelled to undergo liquidation with the fdic as receiver. for this new regime to be applicable, a number of determinations would have to be made, including that a default by metlife, inc. would have serious adverse effects on financial stability in the united states. if the fdic were appointed as the receiver for metlife, inc., liquidation would occur under the provisions of the new liquidation authority, and not under the bankruptcy code, which ordinarily governs liquidations. in an fdic-managed liquidation, holders of a company's debt could be treated differently than under the bankruptcy code and similarly-situated creditors could be treated differently. in particular, unsecured creditors and shareholders are intended to bear the losses of the company being liquidated. these provisions could also apply to financial institutions whose debt securities we hold in our investment portfolio and could adversely affect our position as a creditor and the value of our holdings. dodd-frank also provides for the assessment of charges against certain financial institutions, including non-bank sifis and bank holding companies of a certain size, to cover the costs of liquidating any financial company subject to the new liquidation authority. if metlife, inc. is designated as a non-bank sifi, we could be assessed for a portion of the costs of the liquidation of a financial company that is liquidated under this authority. the liquidation authority could increase the funding costs of large bank holding companies or financial companies that might be viewed as systemically significant, such as metlife, inc. see business u.s. regulation potential regulation as a non-bank sifi orderly liquidation authority. legislative and regulatory activity in health care and other employee benefits could affect our profitability as a provider of life insurance, annuities, and non-medical health insurance benefit products the patient protection and affordable care act, signed into law on march 23, 2010, and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010, signed into law on march 30, 2010 (together, the health care act ), may lead to fundamental changes in the way that employers, including us, provide health care benefits, other benefits, and other forms of compensation to their employees and former employees. the health care act also imposes requirements on us as a provider of non-medical health insurance benefit and other products and on the purchasers of certain of these products. in 2014 we are subject to a new excise tax called the health insurer fee, the cost of which will primarily be passed on to group purchasers of certain of our dental and vision insurance products. additionally, with respect to dental and vision insurance products sold to groups with fifty or fewer employees, we have changed certain of our product offerings. the cost of these product changes will also be reflected in our pricing of such products. the health care act or any other related regulations or regulatory actions could adversely affect our ability to offer certain of these products in the same manner as we do today. they could also result in increased or unpredictable costs to provide certain products, and could harm our competitive position if the health care act has a disparate impact on our products compared to products offered by our competitors. in addition, we employ a substantial number of employees, including sales agents, in the united states to whom we offer employment-related benefits. we also currently provide benefits to certain of our retirees. these benefits are provided under complex plans that are subject to a variety of regulatory requirements. the health care act or related regulations or regulatory actions could adversely affect our ability to attract, retain and motivate our associates. they could also result in increased or unpredictable costs to provide employee benefits, and could harm our competitive position if we are subject to fees, penalties, tax provisions or other limitations in the health care act and our competitors are not. 42 table of contents the preservation of access to care for medicare beneficiaries and pension relief act of 2010 also includes certain provisions for defined benefit pension plan funding relief. these provisions may impact the likelihood and/or timing of corporate plan sponsors terminating their plans and/or engaging in transactions to partially or fully transfer pension obligations to an insurance company. as part of our corporate benefit funding segment, we offer general account and separate account group annuity products that enable a plan sponsor to transfer these risks, often in connection with the termination of defined benefit pension plans. consequently, this legislation could indirectly affect the mix of our business, with fewer closeouts and more non-guaranteed funding products, and adversely impact our results of operations. changes in u.s. federal and state securities laws and regulations, and state insurance regulations regarding suitability of annuity product sales, may affect our operations and our profitability federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to insurance products that are also securities, including variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies. as a result, some of metlife, inc.'s subsidiaries and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance contracts and policies are subject to extensive regulation under these securities laws. federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily intended to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect investors in the securities markets, and to protect investment advisory or brokerage clients. these laws and regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with the securities laws and regulations. a number of changes have recently been suggested to the laws and regulations that govern the conduct of our variable insurance products business and our distributors that could change the way we conduct our business and the products we sell. this may adversely affect our operations and profitability, including increasing the regulatory and compliance burden upon us, resulting in increased costs. see business u.s. regulation securities, broker-dealer and investment advisor regulation. we also may be subject to similar laws and regulations in the foreign countries in which we offer products or conduct other activities similar to those described above. see business international regulation. changes in tax laws or interpretations of such laws could reduce our earnings and materially impact our operations by increasing our corporate taxes and making some of our products less attractive to consumers changes in domestic or foreign tax laws or interpretations of such laws could increase our corporate taxes and reduce our earnings. additionally, global budget deficits make it likely that governments' need for additional revenue will result in future tax proposals that will increase our effective tax rate. however, it remains difficult to predict the timing and effect that future tax law changes could have on our earnings both in the u.s. and in foreign jurisdictions. additionally, u.s. tax laws currently afford certain benefits to life insurance and annuity products. the obama administration and some members of congress have proposed certain changes to rules applicable to certain of these products and to individual income tax rates in general. changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to consumers. a shift away from life insurance and annuity contracts and other tax-deferred products by our customers would reduce our income from sales of these products, as well as the asset base upon which we earn investment income and fees, thereby reducing our earnings and potentially affecting the value of our deferred tax assets. litigation and regulatory investigations are increasingly common in our businesses and may result in significant financial losses and/or harm to our reputation we face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. our pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings specific to us and others generally applicable to business practices in the industries in which we operate. in connection with our insurance operations, plaintiffs' lawyers may bring or are bringing class actions and individual suits alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product design, disclosure, administration, denial or delay of benefits and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers. plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages. due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular points in time may normally be difficult to ascertain. uncertainties can include how fact finders will evaluate documentary evidence and the credibility and effectiveness of witness testimony, and how trial and appellate courts will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal. disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the relevant evidence and applicable law. material pending litigation and regulatory matters affecting us and risks to our business presented by these proceedings are discussed in note 21 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. updates are provided in the notes to our interim condensed consolidated financial statements included in our subsequently filed quarterly reports on form 10-q, as well as in part ii, item 1 ( legal proceedings ) of those quarterly reports. 43 table of contents we are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as information requests, subpoenas and books and record examinations, from state and federal regulators and other authorities. a substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against us, as well as regulatory inquiries or investigations could harm our reputation, result in material fines or penalties, result in significant legal costs and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation, regulatory action or investigation, our ability to attract new customers, retain our current customers and recruit and retain employees could be materially and adversely impacted. regulatory inquiries and litigation may also cause volatility in the price of stocks of companies in our industry. current claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and other proceedings against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. it is also possible that related or unrelated claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and proceedings may be commenced in the future, and we could become subject to further investigations and have lawsuits filed or enforcement actions initiated against us. we currently have a market presence in nearly 50 countries and may be subject to additional investigations and lawsuits in these jurisdictions. increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings in any of the countries where we operate could result in new legal actions and precedents and industry-wide regulations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. investments-related risks should the need arise, we may have difficulty selling certain holdings in our investment portfolio or in our securities lending program in a timely manner and realizing full value given their illiquid nature there may be a limited market for certain investments we hold in our investment portfolio, making them relatively illiquid. these include privately-placed fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, policy loans, leveraged leases, equity real estate, such as real estate joint ventures and funds, and other limited partnership interests. in recent years, even some of our very high quality investments experienced reduced liquidity during periods of market volatility or disruption. if we were forced to sell certain of our investments during periods of market volatility or disruption, market prices may be lower than our carrying value in such investments. this could result in realized losses which could have a material adverse effect on our net income and financial position. similarly, we loan blocks of our securities to third parties (primarily brokerage firms and commercial banks) through our securities lending program, including fixed maturity and equity securities, short-term investments and cash equivalents. under this program, we obtain collateral, usually cash, at the inception of a loan and typically purchase securities with the cash collateral. upon the return to us of these loaned securities, we must return to the third party the cash collateral we received. if the cash collateral has been invested in securities, we need to sell the securities. however, in some cases, the maturity of those securities may exceed the term of the related securities on loan and the estimated fair value of the securities we need to sell may fall below the amount of cash received. if we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral under our securities lending program or otherwise need significant amounts of cash on short notice and we are forced to sell securities, we may have difficulty selling such collateral that is invested in securities in a timely manner, be forced to sell securities in a volatile or illiquid market for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize under normal market conditions, or both. in the event of a forced sale, accounting guidance requires the recognition of a loss for securities in an unrealized loss position and may require the impairment of other securities based on our ability to hold those securities, which would negatively impact our financial condition. in addition, under stressful capital market and economic conditions, liquidity broadly deteriorates, which may further restrict our ability to sell securities. furthermore, if we decrease the amount of our securities lending activities over time, the amount of net investment income generated by these activities will also likely decline. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital uses securities lending. 44 table of contents our requirements to pledge collateral or make payments related to declines in estimated fair value of derivatives transactions or specified assets in connection with otc-cleared and otc-bilateral transactions may adversely affect our liquidity, expose us to central clearinghouse and counterparty credit risk, and increase our costs of hedging substantially all of our derivatives transactions require us to pledge collateral related to any decline in the net estimated fair value of such derivatives transactions executed through a specific broker at a clearinghouse or entered into with a specific counterparty on a bilateral basis. certain derivatives financing transactions require us to pledge collateral or make payments related to declines in the estimated fair value of the specified assets under certain circumstances to central clearinghouses or our counterparties. the amount of collateral we may be required to pledge and the payments we may be required to make under our derivatives transactions may increase under certain circumstances and will likely increase under dodd-frank as a result of the requirement to pledge initial margin for otc-cleared transactions entered into after june 10, 2013 and for otc-bilateral transactions entered into after the phase-in period, which would be applicable to us in 2019 if the u.s. commodity futures trading commission and the sec adopt the final margin requirements for non-centrally cleared derivatives published by the bank of international settlements and international organization of securities commissions in september 2013. each of these items could also adversely affect our liquidity. central clearinghouses and counterparties may also restrict or eliminate certain types of previously eligible collateral, which could also adversely affect our liquidity or charge us to pledge such collateral which would increase our costs. see business u.s. regulation holding company regulation regulation of over-the-counter derivatives, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital uses pledged collateral and note 9 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities and defaults, downgrades or other events may result in future impairments to the carrying value of such securities, resulting in a reduction in our net income fixed maturity securities represented 71% of our total cash and invested assets at december 31, 2013. fixed maturity and equity securities classified as available-for-sale ( afs ) securities are reported at their estimated fair value. unrealized gains or losses on afs securities are recognized as a component of other comprehensive income (loss) and are, therefore, excluded from net income. in recent periods, as a result of low interest rates, the unrealized gains on our fixed maturity securities have far exceeded the unrealized losses. however, if interest rates rise, our unrealized gains would decrease and our unrealized losses would increase, perhaps substantially. the accumulated change in estimated fair value of these afs securities is recognized in net income when the gain or loss is realized upon the sale of the security or in the event that the decline in estimated fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary and an impairment charge to earnings is taken. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments fixed maturity and equity securities available-for-sale. the occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening risk spreads, or other events that adversely affect the issuers or guarantors of securities or the underlying collateral of structured securities could cause the estimated fair value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio and corresponding earnings to decline and cause the default rate of the fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio to increase. a ratings downgrade affecting issuers or guarantors of particular securities, or similar trends that could worsen the credit quality of issuers, such as the corporate issuers of securities in our investment portfolio, could also have a similar effect. with economic uncertainty, credit quality of issuers or guarantors could be adversely affected. similarly, a ratings downgrade affecting a security we hold could indicate the credit quality of that security has deteriorated and could increase the capital we must hold to support that security to maintain our rbc levels. levels of writedowns or impairments are impacted by intent to sell, or our assessment of the likelihood that we will be required to sell, fixed maturity securities, as well as our intent and ability to hold equity securities which have declined in value until recovery. realized losses or impairments on these securities may have a material adverse effect on our net income in a particular quarterly or annual period. 45 table of contents our valuation of securities and investments and the determination of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on our investments are subjective and include methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations and market conditions and, if changed, could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition fixed maturity, equity, fair value option and trading securities, as well as short-term investments that are reported at estimated fair value represent the majority of our total cash and investments. we define fair value generally as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability. considerable judgment is often required in interpreting market data to develop estimates of fair value, and the use of different assumptions or valuation methodologies may have a material effect of the estimated fair value amounts. during periods of market disruption including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. in addition, in times of financial market disruption, certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data may become illiquid. in those cases, the valuation process includes inputs that are less observable and require more subjectivity and management judgment. valuations may result in estimated fair values which vary significantly from the amount at which the investments may ultimately be sold. further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in estimated fair value could vary significantly. decreases in the fair value of securities we hold may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments and notes 1 and 10 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. the determination of the amount of allowances and impairments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. we reflect any changes in allowances and impairments in earnings as such evaluations are revised. however, historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances. in addition, any such future impairments or allowances could have a materially adverse effect on our earnings and financial position. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates investment impairments and note 8 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. defaults on our mortgage loans and volatility in performance may adversely affect our profitability our mortgage loans face default risk and are principally collateralized by commercial, agricultural and residential properties. we establish valuation allowances for estimated impairments, which are based on loan risk characteristics, historical default rates and loss severities, real estate market fundamentals and outlooks, as well as other relevant factors. in addition, substantially all of our mortgage loans held-for-investment have balloon payment maturities. an increase in the default rate of our mortgage loan investments or fluctuations in their performance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. further, any geographic or sector concentration of our mortgage loans may have adverse effects on our investment portfolios and consequently on our results of operations or financial condition. while we seek to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated. moreover, our ability to sell assets relating to such particular groups of related assets may be limited if other market participants are seeking to sell at the same time. in addition, legislative proposals that would allow or require modifications to the terms of mortgage loans could be enacted. we cannot predict whether these proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business or investments. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments mortgage loans. 46 table of contents the defaults or deteriorating credit of other financial institutions could adversely affect us we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, central clearinghouses, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge funds and investment funds and other financial institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. in addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. we also have exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments, non-redeemable and redeemable preferred securities, derivatives, joint venture, hedge fund and equity investments. further, potential action by governments and regulatory bodies in response to the financial crisis affecting the global banking system and financial markets, such as investment, nationalization, conservatorship, receivership and other intervention, whether under existing legal authority or any new authority that may be created, or lack of action by governments and central banks, as well as deterioration in the banks' credit standing, could negatively impact these instruments, securities, transactions and investments or limit our ability to trade with them. any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these investments or other changes may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. risks related to our business our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability our international operations face political, legal, financial, operational and other risks. these operations may be materially adversely affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and regulators, such as through nationalization or expropriation of assets, the imposition of limits on foreign ownership of local companies, changes in laws (including tax laws and regulations), their application or interpretation, political instability, dividend limitations, price controls, changes in applicable currency, currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold into u.s. dollars or other currencies, as well as other adverse actions by foreign governmental authorities and regulators, such as the retroactive application of new requirements on our current and prior activities or operations and the imposition of regulations limiting our ability to distribute our products. such actions may negatively affect our business in these jurisdictions and could indirectly affect our business in other jurisdictions as well. some of our foreign insurance operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where these risks are heightened. see business international regulation and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, as well as regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. for example, the operating environment in argentina has been very challenging. we were formerly principally engaged in the pension business there, but in december 2008, the argentine government nationalized the social security system and moved pension fund assets into the government-run system, effectively eliminating the private pension companies in argentina. this substantially reduced our presence in argentina. accordingly, we have experienced and will continue to experience reductions in the operation's revenues and cash flows. more recent governmental actions have significantly limited our ability to independently operate our argentine operation, which could further reduce this operation's revenues and increase its compliance costs and other expenses. in addition, new legislation in poland became effective on february 1, 2014, enacting significant changes to the country's pension system, including redemption of polish government bonds held by pension funds. this legislation will have a negative impact on our pension business in poland, but will not have a material impact on our overall pension business. see business international regulation. we also have operations in the middle east where the legal and political systems and regulatory frameworks are subject to instability and disruptions. instability has increased in many parts of the middle east as a result of the arab spring movement. lack of legal certainty and stability in the region exposes our operations to increased risk of disruption and to adverse or unpredictable actions by regulators and may make it more difficult for us to enforce our contracts, which may negatively impact our business in this region. 47 table of contents we have market presence in nearly 50 different countries and increased exposure to risks posed by local and regional economic conditions. europe has recently experienced a recession and overall sluggish economic performance, with concerns over low inflation becoming more pronounced. unfavorable economic conditions in europe could adversely impact the demand for our products, negatively impact earnings, adversely affect the performance of our investments or result in impairments, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. see economic environment and capital markets-related risks if difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally persist, they may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. countries in europe's perimeter region, as well as cyprus, have been particularly affected by the recession, resulting in increased national debts and depressed economic activity. we have significant operations and investments in these countries which could be adversely affected by economic developments such as higher taxes, growing inflation, deflation, decreasing government spending, rising unemployment and currency instability. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment. in addition, we face substantial exposure to the japanese economy given our operations there. despite a broad recovery in gdp growth and rising inflation over the last year, structural weaknesses and debt sustainability have yet to be addressed effectively. this leaves the economy vulnerable to further disruption, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. see risks related to our business fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our profitability, and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends financial and economic environment. furthermore, we rely on local sales forces in these countries and may encounter labor problems resulting from workers' associations and trade unions in some countries. in several countries, including china and india, we operate with local business partners and managing these partner relationships poses risks to our business objectives. if our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training the sales force in that country. lastly, we are continuing to expand our international operations in certain markets where we operate and in selected new markets. this may require considerable management time, as well as start-up expenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. operations in new foreign markets may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in existing markets may be affected by local political, economic and market conditions. therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not achieve expected operating margins and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our profitability we are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar resulting from our holdings of non-u.s. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries and net income from foreign operations and issuance of non-u.s. dollar denominated instruments, including guaranteed interest contracts and funding agreements. in general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the u.s. dollar will adversely affect the estimated fair value of our non-u.s. dollar denominated investments, our investments in foreign subsidiaries, and our net income from foreign operations. in addition, from time to time, various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies. our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk is exacerbated by our investments in these emerging markets. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in addition, certain of our life and annuity products are exposed to foreign exchange rate risk. payments under these contracts, depending on the circumstances, may be required to be made in different currencies and may not be the legal tender in the country whose law governs the particular product. changes in exchange rate movements and the imposition of capital controls may also directly impact the liability valuation that may not be entirely hedged. if the currency upon which expected future payments are made strengthens, the liability valuation may increase, which may result in a reduction of net income. historically, we have matched substantially all of our foreign currency liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with investments denominated in their respective foreign currency, which limits the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuation on local operating results; however, fluctuations in such rates affect the translation of these results into our u.s. dollar basis consolidated financial statements. although we take certain actions to address this risk, including entering into foreign currency derivatives, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation could materially adversely affect our reported results due to unhedged positions or the failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 48 table of contents we face substantial exposure to risks associated with fluctuations in the yen/u.s. dollar exchange rate because we have substantial operations in japan and a significant portion of our premiums and investment income in japan are received in yen. most claims and expenses associated with our operations in japan are also paid in yen and we primarily purchase yen-denominated assets to support yen-denominated policy liabilities. these and other yen-denominated financial statement items are, however, translated into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. accordingly, fluctuations in the yen/u.s. dollar exchange rate can have a significant effect on our reported financial position and results of operations. our japan operation does assume some currency exposure by backing a portion of surplus and yen-denominated liabilities with u.s. dollar assets. although this represents risk to our japan operation, this activity reduces yen exposure at the enterprise level. due to our significant international operations, during periods when any foreign currency in which we derive our revenues weakens (strengthens), translating amounts expressed in that currency into u.s. dollars causes fewer (more) u.s. dollars to be reported. any unrealized foreign currency translation adjustments are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). the weakening of a foreign currency relative to the u.s. dollar will generally adversely affect the value of investments in u.s. dollar terms and reduce the level of reserves denominated in that currency. an inability to access our credit facilities could result in a reduction in our liquidity and lead to downgrades in our credit and financial strength ratings we rely on our credit facilities as a potential source of liquidity. the availability of these facilities could be critical to our credit and financial strength ratings and our ability to meet our obligations as they come due in a market when alternative sources of credit are tight. these credit facilities contain certain administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants, including a requirement to maintain a specified minimum consolidated net worth. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital sources credit and committed facilities and note 12 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. our right to borrow funds under these facilities is subject to the fulfillment of certain important conditions, including our compliance with all covenants, and our ability to borrow under these facilities is also subject to the continued willingness and ability of the lenders that are parties to the facilities to provide funds. our failure to comply with the covenants in the credit facilities or fulfill the conditions to borrowings, or the failure of lenders to fund their lending commitments (whether due to insolvency, illiquidity or other reasons) in the amounts provided for under the terms of the facilities, would restrict our ability to access these credit facilities when needed and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may need to fund deficiencies in our closed block; assets allocated to the closed block benefit only the holders of closed block policies mlic's plan of reorganization, as amended, established in connection with its demutualization, required that we establish and operate an accounting mechanism, known as a closed block, to ensure that the reasonable dividend expectations of policyholders who own individual participating whole life insurance policies of mlic in force at the time of the demutualization are met. the assets and liabilities designated to the closed block were $41.7 billion and $45.2 billion, respectively, at december 31, 2013. see note 7 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. we allocated assets to the closed block in an amount that will produce cash flows which, together with anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block, are reasonably expected to be sufficient to support obligations and liabilities relating to these policies, including, but not limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain expenses and tax, and to provide for the continuation of the policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999, if the experience underlying such scales continues, and for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience changes. the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block may not be sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies. if they are not, we must fund the shortfall. even if they are sufficient, we may choose, for competitive reasons, to support policyholder dividend payments with our general account funds. the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenues from the policies in the closed block will benefit only the holders of the policies in the closed block. in addition, to the extent that these amounts are greater than the amounts estimated at the time the closed block was funded, dividends payable in respect of the policies included in the closed block may be greater than they would be in the absence of a closed block. any excess earnings will be available for distribution over time only to closed block policyholders. 49 table of contents a downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could result in a loss of business and materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations financial strength ratings are published by various nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ( nrsro ) and similar entities not formally recognized as nrsros. they indicate the nrsros' opinion regarding an insurance company's ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations, and are important to maintaining public confidence in our products and our competitive position. see business company ratings for additional information regarding our financial strength ratings. downgrades in our financial strength ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including: reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other investment products; adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and independent sales intermediaries; materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders; requiring us to post additional collateral under certain of our financing and derivative transactions; requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and services to remain competitive; and adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices or at all. in addition to the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries, various nrsros also publish credit ratings for metlife, inc. and several of its subsidiaries. credit ratings indicate the nrsros' opinion regarding a debt issuer's ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner and are important factors in our overall funding profile and ability to access certain types of liquidity. downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including limiting our access to capital markets, potentially increasing the cost of debt, and requiring us to post collateral. see note 9 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding the impact of a one-notch downgrade with respect to derivative transactions with credit rating downgrade triggers and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital uses pledged collateral for information on the impact of a one-notch downgrade. see also management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company capital rating agencies. in view of the difficulties experienced by many financial institutions as a result of the financial crisis and ensuing global recession, including our competitors in the insurance industry, we believe it is possible that the nrsros will continue to heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to insurance companies, will continue to increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, will continue to request additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without notice by any nrsro. reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses as part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various business segments. while reinsurance agreements generally bind the reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured at generally fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new business. in certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for business already reinsured may also increase. for example, for some of our group businesses under which the policies and related reinsurance are subject to periodic (typically annual) renewal, prices may increase at any renewal. also, for most of our traditional life reinsurance agreements, it is common for the reinsurer to have a right to increase reinsurance rates on in-force business if there is a systematic deterioration of mortality in the market as a whole. any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to those policies we issue. see business reinsurance activity and risks related to our business if the counterparties to our reinsurance or indemnification arrangements or to the derivatives we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 50 table of contents if the counterparties to our reinsurance or indemnification arrangements or to the derivatives we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations we use reinsurance, indemnification and derivatives to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. in general, reinsurance, indemnification and derivatives do not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers, indemnitors, counterparties and central clearinghouses. a reinsurer's, indemnitor's, counterparty's or central clearinghouse's insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of reinsurance agreements, indemnity agreements or derivatives agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, including our liquidity. see business reinsurance activity. in addition, we use derivatives to hedge various business risks. we enter into a variety of derivatives, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit default and currency swaps with a number of counterparties on a bilateral basis for uncleared otc derivatives and with clearing broker and central clearinghouses for otc-cleared derivatives. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations derivatives. if our counterparties, clearing brokers or central clearinghouses fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivatives, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. this risk is more pronounced in light of the stresses suffered by financial institutions over the past few years. such failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. differences between actual claims experience and underwriting and reserving assumptions may adversely affect our financial results our earnings significantly depend upon the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in setting prices for our products and establishing liabilities for future policy benefits and claims. such amounts are established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims. to the extent that actual claims experience is less favorable than the underlying assumptions we used in establishing such liabilities, we could be required to increase our liabilities. due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of liabilities for future policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely the amounts which we will ultimately pay to settle our liabilities. such amounts may vary from the estimated amounts, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future. we evaluate our liabilities periodically based on accounting requirements, which change from time to time, the assumptions used to establish the liabilities, as well as our actual experience. if the liabilities originally established for future benefit payments prove inadequate, we must increase them. such increases could affect earnings negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. see business policyholder liabilities and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations policyholder liabilities. catastrophes may adversely impact liabilities for policyholder claims and reinsurance availability our insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic events. the extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however, hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis and man-made catastrophes may produce significant damage or loss of life or property damage in larger areas, especially those that are heavily populated. claims resulting from catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition. in addition, catastrophic events could harm the financial condition of issuers of obligations we hold in our investment portfolio, resulting in impairments to these obligations, and the financial condition of our reinsurers, thereby increasing the probability of default on reinsurance recoveries. large-scale catastrophes may also reduce the overall level of economic activity in affected countries which could hurt our business and the value of our investments or our ability to write new business. it is possible that increases in the value, caused by the effects of inflation or other factors, and geographic concentration of insured lives or property, could increase the severity of claims we receive from future catastrophic events. 51 table of contents our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that causes a large number of deaths. significant influenza pandemics have occurred three times in the last century; however, the likelihood, timing, and severity of a future pandemic cannot be predicted. a significant pandemic could have a major impact on the global economy or the economies of particular countries or regions, including travel, trade, tourism, the health system, food supply, consumption, overall economic output and, eventually, on the financial markets. in addition, a pandemic that affected our employees or the employees of our distributors or of other companies with which we do business could disrupt our business operations. the effectiveness of external parties, including governmental and non-governmental organizations, in combating the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have a material impact on the losses experienced by us. in our group insurance operations, a localized event that affects the workplace of one or more of our group insurance customers could cause a significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims. these events could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any period and, depending on their severity, could also materially and adversely affect our financial condition. our property &amp; casualty businesses have experienced, and will likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses that may have a material adverse impact on their business, results of operations and financial condition. although we make every effort to limit our exposure to catastrophic risks through volatility management and reinsurance programs, these efforts do not eliminate all risk. catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards), fires and man-made events such as terrorist attacks. historically, substantially all of our property &amp; casualty catastrophe-related claims have related to homeowners coverages. however, catastrophes may also affect other property &amp; casualty coverages. due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence, timing and severity of catastrophes. in addition, changing climate conditions, primarily rising global temperatures, may increase the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes such as hurricanes. areas of major hurricane exposure include coastal sections of the northeastern u.s. (including lower new york, new jersey, connecticut, rhode island and massachusetts), the south atlantic states (including virginia, north carolina, south carolina, georgia and florida) and the gulf coast (including alabama, mississippi, louisiana and texas). we also have some earthquake exposure, primarily along the new madrid fault line in the central u.s. and in the pacific northwest. consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we establish liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. we cannot be certain that the liabilities we have established will be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities. from time to time, states have passed legislation that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage risk, such as legislation restricting an insurer's ability to withdraw from catastrophe-prone areas. while we attempt to limit our exposure to acceptable levels, subject to restrictions imposed by insurance regulatory authorities, a catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. most of the jurisdictions in which our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business require life and property &amp; casualty insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations. these associations are organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers, who may become impaired, insolvent or fail, for example, following the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events. these associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is engaged. in addition, certain states have government owned or controlled organizations providing life and property &amp; casualty insurance to their citizens. the activities of such organizations could also place additional stress on the adequacy of guaranty fund assessments. many of these organizations also have the power to levy assessments similar to those of the guaranty associations described above. some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. see business u.s. regulation holding company regulation guaranty associations and similar arrangements and business international regulation. while in the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied against metlife, inc.'s insurance subsidiaries have not been material, it is possible that a large catastrophic event could render such guaranty funds inadequate and we may be called upon to contribute additional amounts, which may have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations in a particular period. we have established liabilities for guaranty fund assessments that we consider adequate, but additional liabilities may be necessary. see note 21 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. our ability to manage this risk and the profitability of our property &amp; casualty and life insurance businesses depends in part on our ability to obtain catastrophe reinsurance, which may not be available at commercially acceptable rates in the future. see risks related to our business reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses. 52 table of contents our statutory life insurance reserve financings may be subject to cost increases and new financings may be subject to limited market capacity to support statutory reserves for several products, including, but not limited to, our level premium term life and universal life with secondary guarantees and mlic's closed block, we currently utilize capital markets solutions for financing a portion of our statutory reserve requirements. while we have financing facilities in place for certain previously written business, certain of these facilities are subject to cost increases upon the occurrence of specified ratings downgrades of metlife or are subject to periodic repricing. any resulting cost increases could negatively impact our financial results. future capacity for these statutory reserve funding structures in the marketplace is not guaranteed. currently, the use of captive reinsurers is being studied by the department of financial services and the naic. see regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. if the department of financial services or other state insurance regulators determine to restrict the use of captive reinsurers for purposes of funding reserve requirements or capacity in the capital markets otherwise becomes unavailable for a prolonged period of time, thereby hindering our ability to obtain funding for these new structures, our ability to write additional business in a cost effective manner may be impacted. competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability we believe competition amongst insurance companies is based on a number of factors, including service, product features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, e-business capabilities and name recognition. we compete globally with a large number of other insurance companies, as well as non-insurance financial services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset managers, for individual consumers, employers and other group customers and agents and other distributors of insurance and investment products. some of these companies offer a broader array of products, have more competitive pricing or, with respect to other insurance companies, have higher claims paying ability ratings. some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete. in some circumstances, national banks that sell annuity products of life insurers may also have pre-existing customer bases for financial services products. additionally, many of our group insurance products are underwritten annually. there is a risk that group purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors than they could renewing coverage with us. these competitive pressures may adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell our products in the future. furthermore, the investment management and securities brokerage businesses have relatively few barriers to entry and continually attract new entrants. see business competition. the insurance industry distributes many of its individual products through other financial institutions such as banks and broker-dealers. an increase in bank and broker-dealer consolidation activity may negatively impact the industry's sales, and such consolidation could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market insurance products to our current customer base or to expand our customer base. consolidation of distributors and/or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us. in addition, since numerous aspects of our business are subject to regulation, legislative and other changes affecting the regulatory environment for our business may have, over time, the effect of supporting or burdening some aspects of the financial services industry more than others. this can affect our competitive position within the life insurance industry and within the broader financial services industry. see business u.s. regulation, business international regulation, regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth, and regulatory and legal risks changes in u.s. federal and state securities laws and regulations, and state insurance regulations regarding suitability of annuity product sales, may affect our operations and our profitability. 53 table of contents if our business does not perform well, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our goodwill or other long-lived assets or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition goodwill is the excess of cost over the estimated fair value of net assets acquired. goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate, indicate that the fair value of the reporting unit may be less than the carrying value of that reporting unit. we perform our annual goodwill impairment testing during the third quarter of each year based upon data as of the close of the second quarter. goodwill associated with a business acquisition is not tested for impairment during the year the business is acquired unless there is a significant identified impairment event. impairment testing is performed using the fair value approach, which requires the use of estimates and judgment, at the reporting unit level. a reporting unit is the operating segment or a business one level below the operating segment under certain circumstances. the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the business, which may be adversely impacted by prolonged market declines. if it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, we must write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. such writedowns could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates goodwill and note 11 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate, also require impairment testing. this testing is done to determine whether changes in circumstances indicate that we will be unable to recover the carrying amount of the asset group. such writedowns could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. factors in management's determination include the performance of the business including the ability to generate future taxable income. if, based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. in addition, changes in the corporate tax rates could affect the value of our deferred tax assets and may require a write-off of some of those assets. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates income taxes. if our business does not perform well or if actual experience versus estimates used in valuing and amortizing dac, deferred sales inducements ( dsi ) and voba vary significantly, we may be required to accelerate the amortization and/or impair the dac, dsi and voba which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition we incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal insurance business. costs that are related directly to the successful acquisition of new and renewal insurance business are deferred and referred to as dac. bonus amounts credited to certain policyholders, either immediately upon receiving a deposit or as excess interest credits for a period of time, are deferred and referred to as dsi. the recovery of dac and dsi is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. the amount of future profit or margin is dependent principally on investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest crediting rates, dividends paid to policyholders, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties and certain economic variables, such as inflation. of these factors, we anticipate that investment returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of such costs. the aforementioned factors enter into management's estimates of gross profits or margins, which generally are used to amortize such costs. if actual gross profits or margins are less than originally expected, then the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to income. significant or sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of dac and dsi related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends impact of sustained low interest rate environment for a discussion of how significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period. 54 table of contents voba represents the excess of book value over the estimated fair value of acquired insurance, annuity, and investment-type contracts in-force at the acquisition date. the estimated fair value of the acquired liabilities is based on actuarially determined projections, by each block of business, of future policy and contract charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account performance, surrenders, operating expenses, investment returns, nonperformance risk adjustment and other factors. in the event actual experience on the purchased business varies from these projections, we will be required to revise our estimates, which results in changes to the amounts expensed in the reporting period in which the revisions are made and also could result in a charge to income. in addition, voba is amortized similarly to dac and dsi. accordingly, an acceleration of the amortization of voba would occur if actual gross profits or margins are less than originally expected. in such a case, the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period in which the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to net income. furthermore, significant or sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of the voba related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates deferred policy acquisition costs and value of business acquired and note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further consideration of dac and voba. guarantees within certain of our products may decrease our earnings, increase the volatility of our results, result in higher risk management costs and expose us to increased counterparty risk certain of our variable annuity products include guaranteed benefits, including guaranteed minimum death benefits, guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits, guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits, and guaranteed minimum income benefits. these guarantees are designed to protect policyholders against significant downturns in equity markets and interest rates. any such periods of significant and sustained downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, or reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of our liabilities associated with those products. an increase in these liabilities would result in a decrease in our net income. we use hedging and risk management strategies to mitigate the liability exposure and the volatility of net income associated with these liabilities. these strategies involve the use of reinsurance and derivatives, which may not be completely effective. for example, in the event that reinsurers, derivative counterparties or central clearinghouses are unable or unwilling to pay, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefits. see risks related to our business if the counterparties to our reinsurance or indemnification arrangements or to the derivatives we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, hedging instruments may not effectively offset the costs of guarantees or may otherwise be insufficient in relation to our obligations. furthermore, we are subject to the risk that changes in policyholder behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events, produce economic losses not addressed by the risk management techniques employed. these, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including net income, financial condition or liquidity. see management's discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition policyholder liabilities variable annuity guarantees and note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further consideration of the risks associated with guaranteed benefits. acquisition-related risks we could face difficulties, unforeseen liabilities, asset impairments or rating actions arising from business acquisitions or integrating and managing growth of such businesses, dispositions of businesses, or legal entity reorganizations we have engaged in dispositions and acquisitions of businesses in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future. such activity exposes us to a number of risks. for example, there could be unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments, including goodwill impairments, that arise in connection with the businesses that we may sell or the businesses that we may acquire in the future. in addition, there may be liabilities or asset impairments that we fail, or are unable, to discover in the course of performing acquisition-related due diligence investigations. furthermore, even for obligations and liabilities that we do discover during the due diligence process, neither the valuation adjustment nor the contractual protections we negotiate may be sufficient to fully protect us from losses. although we generally have rights to indemnification for certain losses, our rights are limited by survival periods for bringing claims and limitations on the nature and amount of losses we may recover, and we cannot be certain that indemnification will be, among other things, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any loss we may suffer. for example, we are indemnified under the stock purchase agreement dated as of march 7, 2010, as amended, by and among metlife, inc., aig and am holdings, a subsidiary of aig, for various tax matters, including u.s. federal income taxes attributable to periods during which the alico business was included in aig's consolidated federal income tax return. it is possible, however, that any such indemnification may not be fully collectible. 55 table of contents likewise, when we dispose of subsidiaries or operations, we may remain liable to the acquiror or to third parties for certain losses or costs arising from the divested business. we may also incur a loss on the disposition. the use of our own funds as consideration in any acquisition would consume capital resources, which could affect our capital plan and render those funds unavailable for other corporate purposes. we also may not be able to raise sufficient funds to consummate an acquisition if, for example, we are unable to sell our securities or close related bridge credit facilities. moreover, as a result of uncertainty and risks associated with potential acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, rating agencies may take certain actions with respect to the ratings assigned to metlife, inc. and/or its subsidiaries. our ability to achieve certain benefits we anticipate from any acquisitions of businesses will depend in large part upon our ability to successfully integrate such businesses in an efficient and effective manner. we may not be able to integrate such businesses smoothly or successfully, and the process may take longer than expected. the integration of operations and differences in operational culture may require the dedication of significant management resources, which may distract management's attention from day-to-day business. if we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of such acquired businesses, we may be unable to realize the benefits we expect to achieve as a result of such acquisitions and our business and results of operations may be less than expected. the success with which we are able to integrate acquired operations will depend on our ability to manage a variety of issues, including the following: loss of key personnel or higher than expected employee attrition rates could adversely affect the performance of the acquired business and our ability to integrate it successfully. customers of the acquired business may reduce, delay or defer decisions concerning their use of its products and services as a result of the acquisition or uncertainty related to the consummation of the acquisition, including, for example, potential unfamiliarity with the metlife brand in regions where we did not have a market presence prior to the acquisition. if the acquired business relies upon independent distributors to distribute its products, these distributors may not continue to generate the same volume of business for us after the acquisition. independent distributors may reexamine the scope of their relationship with the acquired business or us as a result of the acquisition and decide to curtail or eliminate distribution of our products. integrating acquired operations with our existing operations may require us to coordinate geographically separated organizations, address possible differences in corporate culture and management philosophies, merge financial processes and risk and compliance procedures, combine separate information technology platforms and integrate operations that were previously closely tied to the former parent of the acquired business or other service providers. in cases where we or an acquired business operates in certain markets through joint ventures, the acquisition may affect the continued success and prospects of the joint venture. our ability to exercise management control or influence over these joint venture operations and our investment in them will depend on the continued cooperation between the joint venture participants and on the terms of the joint venture agreements, which allocate control among the joint venture participants. we may face financial or other exposure in the event that any of these joint venture partners fail to meet their obligations under the joint venture, encounter financial difficulty or elect to alter, modify or terminate the relationship. we may incur significant costs in connection with any acquisition and the related integration. the costs and liabilities actually incurred in connection with an acquisition and subsequent integration process may exceed those anticipated. the prospects of our business also may be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to manage the growth of any acquired business successfully. for example, the life insurance markets in many of the international markets in which we have grown through recent acquisitions have experienced significant growth in recent years. management of growth in these markets to date has required significant management and operational resources and is likely to continue to do so. future growth of our combined business will require, among other things, the continued development of adequate underwriting and claim handling capabilities and skills, sufficient capital base, increased marketing and sales activities, and the hiring and training of new personnel. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in managing future growth of any acquired business. in particular, there may be difficulties in hiring and training sufficient numbers of customer service personnel and agents to keep pace with any future growth in the number of customers in our developing or developed markets. in addition, we may experience difficulties in upgrading, developing and expanding information technology systems quickly enough to accommodate any future growth. if we are unable to manage future growth, our prospects may be materially and adversely affected. 56 table of contents we may also participate in joint ventures with other companies or government enterprises in various international markets, including joint ventures where we may have a lesser degree of control over the business operations, which may expose us to additional operational, financial, legal or compliance risks. we may be dependent on a joint venture counterparty for capital, product distribution, local market knowledge, or other resources. a joint venture may require an investment of considerable management, financial and operational resources to establish sufficient infrastructure such as underwriting, actuarial, risk management, compliance or other processes. if we are unable to effectively cooperate with joint venture counterparties, or any joint venture counterparty fails to meets its obligations under the joint venture arrangement, encounters financial difficulty, or elects to alter, modify or terminate the relationship, we may be unable to achieve our objectives and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. in addition, we may reorganize or consolidate the legal entities through which we conduct business. for example, in the second quarter of 2013, metlife, inc. announced the mergers. the mergers are expected to occur in the fourth quarter of 2014, subject to regulatory approvals. see management's discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition executive summary. the implementation of legal entity reorganizations is a complex undertaking and involves a number of risks similar to those that are present in the case of an acquisition. many aspects of these transactions are subject to regulatory approvals from a number of different jurisdictions. we may not obtain needed regulatory approvals in the timeframe anticipated or at all, which could reduce or prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of these transactions. these transactions or the related regulatory approvals may entail modifications of certain aspects of our operations, the composition of certain of our investment portfolios, and/or the cost of our derivatives hedging activities, which could result in additional costs or reduce net investment income. we may also incur additional expenses in connection with planning and effectuating these mergers and related transactions. we may encounter delays or unforeseen problems in making changes to our information technology systems that are needed to reflect the mergers. loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to carry out these transactions. in addition, these transactions may absorb significant attention from our management, which could reduce management's focus on other aspects of our business. any of these risks, if realized, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. the settlement of our outstanding common equity units will have a dilutive impact on metlife, inc.'s stockholders as part of the consideration paid for the alico acquisition, metlife, inc. issued $3.0 billion aggregate stated amount of common equity units, which initially consist of (x) purchase contracts obligating the holder to purchase a variable number of shares of metlife, inc.'s common stock on each of three specified future settlement dates (the first settlement date was in october 2012, the second settlement date was in september 2013 and the third is expected to occur in october 2014, subject to deferral under certain circumstances) for a fixed amount per purchase contract (an aggregate of $1.0 billion on each settlement date) and (y) an interest in each of three series of debt securities of metlife, inc. on the first and second settlement dates, metlife issued an aggregate of 50,911,911 shares. after settlement of the remaining purchase contracts, metlife, inc. will receive proceeds of $1 billion and issue between 22.8 million and 28.5 million shares of its common stock, subject to certain adjustments including as a result of the payment, if any, of dividends in excess of $0.185 per share during the second and/or third quarters of 2014, in addition to the proceeds received and shares issued on the first and second settlement dates in october 2012 and september 2013. as a result, more shares of common stock will be outstanding and each existing stockholder will own a smaller percentage of our common stock then outstanding. see note 15 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 57 table of contents capital-related risks we have been, and may continue to be, prevented from repurchasing our stock and paying dividends at the level we wish as a result of regulatory restrictions and restrictions under the terms of certain of our securities the declaration and payment of dividends is subject to the discretion of our board of directors, and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements, future prospects, regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by metlife, inc.'s insurance subsidiaries and other factors deemed relevant by the board. there is no requirement or assurance that we will declare and pay any dividends. in addition, payment of dividends on our common stock and our ability to repurchase our common stock have been subject to restrictions arising from our regulation as a bank holding company and may again be subject to restrictions arising from federal reserve regulation if we are designated a non-bank sifi. in addition, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and repurchase our common stock is subject to restrictions arising from the terms of our preferred stock, junior subordinated debentures and trust securities, so called dividend stopper provisions, in situations where we may be experiencing financial stress. for purposes of this discussion, junior subordinated debentures are deemed to include metlife, inc.'s fixed-to-floating exchangeable surplus trust securities, which are exchangeable for junior subordinated debentures, and which contain terms with the same substantive effects in this discussion as the terms of metlife, inc.'s junior subordinated debentures. in addition, our ability to pay dividends on our preferred stock and interest on our junior subordinated debentures are also restricted by the terms of those securities. regulatory restrictions the federal reserve has proposed enhanced prudential standards, including heightened capital requirements and stress testing requirements, for non-bank sifis. it is possible that these requirements, or any others adopted, could restrict our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our common stock if we were designated a non-bank sifi. in addition, metlife, inc. may not be able to pay dividends if it does not receive sufficient funds from its operating subsidiaries, which are themselves subject to separate regulatory restrictions on their ability to pay dividends. see as a holding company, metlife, inc. depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to transfer funds to it to meet its obligations and pay dividends. dividend stopper provisions in our preferred stock and junior subordinated debentures certain terms of our preferred stock and our junior subordinated debentures may prevent us from purchasing our common stock or paying dividends on our common stock in certain circumstances. moreover, metlife, inc. is a party to certain replacement capital covenants which limit its ability to eliminate these restrictions through the repayment, redemption or purchase of preferred stock or junior subordinated debentures by requiring metlife, subject to certain limitations, to receive cash proceeds during a specified period from the sale of specified replacement securities prior to any repayment, redemption or purchase. see note 14 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for a description of such covenants in effect with respect to junior subordinated debentures and note 16 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for a description of such restrictions with respect to the preferred stock. under our preferred stock and junior subordinated debentures, if we have not paid the full dividends on our preferred stock for a dividend period, we may not repurchase or pay dividends on our common stock for that period. if we have not paid in full the accrued interest through the most recent interest payment date on our junior subordinated debentures, we may not repurchase or pay dividends on our common stock or other capital stock (including the preferred stock), subject to certain exceptions. 58 table of contents trigger events for the restrictions on the payment of dividends on our preferred stock and restrictions on the payment of interest on our junior subordinated debentures in addition, the preferred stock and the junior subordinated debentures contain provisions that would automatically suspend the payment of preferred stock dividends and junior subordinated debenture interest payments if metlife, inc. fails to meet certain tests ( trigger events ) at specified times, although in such cases metlife would be permitted to make the payments if it were able to utilize the alternative payment mechanism described below. as a result of the suspension of these payments, the dividend stopper provisions would come into effect. a trigger event would occur if the rbc ratio of metlife's largest u.s. insurance subsidiaries in the aggregate (as defined in the applicable instrument) were to be less than 175% of the company action level based on the subsidiaries' prior year annual financial statements filed (generally around march 1) with state insurance commissioners. a trigger event would also occur if, at the end of a quarter, consolidated gaap net income for the four-quarter period ending two quarters before such quarter-end is zero or less and adjusted shareholders' equity (as defined in the applicable instrument), as of such quarter-end and the end of the quarter two quarters before such quarter-end, declined by 10% or more from its level 10 quarters before such quarter-end. the trigger event would continue until there is no longer a trigger event at the specified time, and adjusted shareholders' equity is no longer 10% or more below its level at the beginning of each measurement period described above that is associated with a trigger event. in order to use the alternative payment mechanism referred to above to declare and pay preferred stock dividends or interest on junior subordinated debentures, metlife must sell common stock during the 90 days preceding the dividend declaration date or sell common stock or certain kinds of warrants to purchase common stock during the 180 days prior to the interest payment date, make dividend or interest payments not in excess of the net proceeds of these sales, and satisfy other specified conditions. dividends on our preferred stock are subject to declaration by our board of directors in addition to the provisions described above that prevent us from declaring and paying dividends on our preferred stock, dividends on our preferred stock are subject to declaration each quarter by our board of directors. if our board of directors does not declare dividends on the preferred stock for any quarterly dividend period, the dividend stopper provisions in our preferred stock would prevent us from repurchasing or paying dividends on our common stock for that period. optional deferral of interest on the junior subordinated debentures the junior subordinated debentures provide that metlife may, at its option and provided that certain conditions are met, defer payment of interest without giving rise to an event of default for periods of up to 10 years (although after five years metlife, inc. would be obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to sell equity securities to raise proceeds to pay the interest), with no limitation on the number of deferral periods that metlife, inc. may begin so long as all accrued and unpaid interest is paid with respect to prior deferral periods. if metlife, inc. were to elect to defer payments of interest, the dividend stopper provisions in the junior subordinated debentures would thus prevent metlife, inc. from repurchasing or paying dividends on its common stock or other capital stock (including the preferred stock) during the period of deferral, subject to exceptions. see note 16 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about these restrictions. as a holding company, metlife, inc. depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to transfer funds to it to meet its obligations and pay dividends metlife, inc. is a holding company for its insurance and financial subsidiaries and does not have any significant operations of its own. dividends from its subsidiaries and permitted payments to it under its tax sharing arrangements with its subsidiaries are its principal sources of cash to meet its obligations and to pay preferred and common stock dividends. if the cash metlife, inc. receives from its subsidiaries is insufficient for it to fund its debt service and other holding company obligations, metlife, inc. may be required to raise cash through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of additional equity or the sale of assets. the payment of dividends and other distributions to metlife, inc. by its u.s. insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. in general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits require insurance regulatory approval. in addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of dividends or other payments by its insurance subsidiaries to metlife, inc. if they determine that the payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. the payment of dividends and other distributions by insurance companies is also influenced by business conditions and rating agency considerations. see business u.s. regulation insurance regulation and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources metlife, inc. liquidity and capital sources dividends from subsidiaries. see also regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. 59 table of contents any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or advances by our foreign subsidiaries and branches to metlife, inc. could be subject to taxation or other restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdiction in which such foreign subsidiaries operate. see business international regulation and risks related to our business our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability. operational risks our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business we have devoted significant resources to develop and periodically update our risk management policies and procedures to reflect ongoing review of our risks and expect to continue to do so in the future. nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not be comprehensive and may not identify every risk to which we are exposed. many of our methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. as a result, these methods may not fully predict future exposures, which can be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate. other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. this information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. in addition, more extensive and perhaps different risk management policies and procedures might have to be implemented under pending regulations. see business u.s. regulation potential regulation as a non-bank sifi and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio and the level of claim losses we incur the continued threat of terrorism, both within the u.s. and abroad, ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility in global financial markets and result in loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. the value of assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the credit and equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. companies in which we maintain investments may suffer losses as a result of financial, commercial or economic disruptions and such disruptions might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or principal on their securities or mortgage loans. terrorist actions also could disrupt our operations centers in the u.s. or abroad and result in higher than anticipated claims under our insurance policies. see economic environment and capital markets-related risks if difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally persist, they may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. 60 table of contents the failure in cyber- or other information security systems, as well as the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning could result in a loss or disclosure of confidential information, damage to our reputation and impairment of our ability to conduct business effectively our business is highly dependent upon the effective operation of our computer systems. we rely on these systems throughout our business for a variety of functions, including processing claims and applications, providing information to customers and distributors, performing actuarial analyses and maintaining financial records. we also retain confidential and proprietary information on our computer systems and we rely on sophisticated technologies to maintain the security of that information. our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access, cyberattacks or other computer-related penetrations. while, to date, metlife has not experienced a material breach of cybersecurity, administrative and technical controls and other preventive actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber-incidents and protect our information technology may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems. in the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, epidemic, industrial accident, blackout, computer virus, terrorist attack, cyberattack or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial position, particularly if those problems affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data. in addition, in the event that a significant number of our managers were unavailable following a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. these interruptions also may interfere with our suppliers' ability to provide goods and services and our employees' ability to perform their job responsibilities. the failure of our computer systems and/or our disaster recovery plans for any reason could cause significant interruptions in our operations and result in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to our customers. such a failure could harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions and legal claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. while we maintain cyber liability insurance that provides both third-party liability and first party liability coverages, our insurance may not be sufficient to protect us against all losses. metlife, inc. and its subsidiaries maintain a primary cybersecurity and privacy liability insurance policy with a limit of $15 million, and have additional coverage for cybersecurity and privacy liability available under blended professional liability excess coverage policies with a total limit of $185 million. our associates may take excessive risks which could negatively affect our financial condition and business as an insurance enterprise, we are in the business of accepting certain risks. the associates who conduct our business, including executive officers and other members of management, sales managers, investment professionals, product managers, sales agents, and other associates, do so in part by making decisions and choices that involve exposing us to risk. these include decisions such as setting underwriting guidelines and standards, product design and pricing, determining what assets to purchase for investment and when to sell them, which business opportunities to pursue, and other decisions. we endeavor, in the design and implementation of our compensation programs and practices, to avoid giving our associates incentives to take excessive risks; however, associates may take such risks regardless of the structure of our compensation programs and practices. similarly, although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor associates' business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks, and to prevent employee misconduct, these controls and procedures may not be effective. if our associates take excessive risks, the impact of those risks could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and business operations. general risks metlife, inc.'s board of directors may influence the outcome of stockholder votes on many matters due to the voting provisions of the metlife policyholder trust under the plan, we established the metlife policyholder trust to hold the shares of metlife, inc. common stock allocated to eligible policyholders not receiving cash or policy credits under the plan. as of february 19, 2014, the trust held 189,785,282 shares, or 16.9%, of the outstanding shares of metlife, inc. common stock. because of voting provisions of the trust and the number of shares held by it, the trust may affect the outcome of matters brought to a stockholder vote. except on votes regarding certain fundamental corporate actions described below, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held in the trust in accordance with the recommendations given by metlife, inc.'s board of directors to its stockholders or, if the board gives no such recommendations, as directed by the board. as a result of the voting provisions of the trust, the board of directors may be able to influence the outcome of votes on matters submitted to a vote of stockholders, excluding certain fundamental corporate actions, so long as the trust holds a substantial number of shares of common stock. 61 table of contents if the vote relates to fundamental corporate actions specified in the trust, the trustee will solicit instructions from the trust beneficiaries and vote all shares held in the trust in proportion to the instructions it receives. these actions include: an election or removal of directors in which a stockholder has properly nominated one or more candidates in opposition to a nominee or nominees of metlife, inc.'s board of directors or a vote on a stockholder's proposal to oppose a board nominee for director, remove a director for cause or fill a vacancy caused by the removal of a director by stockholders, subject to certain conditions; a merger or consolidation, a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the assets, or a recapitalization or dissolution, of metlife, inc., in each case requiring a vote of stockholders under applicable delaware law; any transaction that would result in an exchange or conversion of shares of common stock held by the trust for cash, securities or other property; and any proposal requiring metlife, inc.'s board of directors to amend or redeem the rights under metlife, inc.'s stockholder rights plan, other than a proposal with respect to which we have received advice of nationally-recognized legal counsel to the effect that the proposal is not a proper subject for stockholder action under delaware law. metlife, inc. does not currently have a stockholder rights plan. if a vote concerns any of these fundamental corporate actions, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held by the trust in proportion to the instructions it received, which will give disproportionate weight to the instructions actually given by trust beneficiaries. the metlife policyholder trust agreement provides that we may terminate the trust once the percentage of outstanding shares held in the trust falls to 25%. the winding up of the trust must commence 90 days after we provide the trustee with notice that the percentage of outstanding shares held in the trust is 10% or less. in connection with any termination of the trust, all of the shares of common stock then held in the trust will need to be distributed to the respective trust beneficiaries, unless we offer to purchase all or a portion of such trust shares. in connection with such a distribution, we may incur costs related to an increase in the number of shareholders, which may include increased mailing and proxy solicitation expenses. changes in accounting standards issued by the financial accounting standards board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements our financial statements are subject to the application of gaap, which is periodically revised and/or expanded. accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the financial accounting standards board (the fasb ). the impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in our reports filed with the sec. see note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. an assessment of proposed standards, including standards on insurance contracts and accounting for financial instruments, is not provided as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and official positions of the fasb are determined only after extensive due process and deliberations. therefore, the effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. the required adoption of future accounting standards could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, including on our net income. changes in our assumptions regarding the discount rate, expected rate of return and expected increase in compensation used for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability we determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on our best estimates of future plan experience. these assumptions are reviewed regularly and include discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets, expected increases in compensation levels and expected medical inflation. changes in these assumptions may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. see note 18 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for details on how changes in these assumptions would affect plan costs. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims we rely on a combination of contractual rights with third parties and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. although we endeavor to protect our rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. we may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. this would represent a diversion of resources that may be significant and our efforts may not prove successful. the inability to secure or protect our intellectual property assets could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete with other insurers and financial institutions. 62 table of contents in addition, we may be subject to claims by third parties for (i) patent, trademark or copyright infringement, (ii) breach of patent, trademark or copyright license usage rights, or (iii) misappropriation of trade secrets. any such claims or resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability for damages. if we were found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party patent or other intellectual property right, we could in some circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or from utilizing and benefiting from certain patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties or implement a costly alternative. any of these scenarios could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may be unable to attract and retain sales representatives for our products we must attract and retain productive sales representatives to sell our insurance, annuities and investment products. insurers compete for sales representatives with demonstrated ability. in addition, there is competition for representatives with other types of financial services firms, such as independent broker-dealers. we compete with other financial services companies for sales representatives primarily on the basis of product features, support services, compensation and financial position. we continue to undertake several initiatives to enhance the efficiency and production of our existing sales force. these initiatives may not succeed in attracting and retaining new agents. sales of individual insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining highly qualified and productive agents. see business competition. state laws, federal laws, our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws may delay, deter or prevent takeovers and business combinations that stockholders might consider in their best interests state laws, federal laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. for instance, such restrictions may prevent stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of metlife, inc.'s common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of metlife, inc.'s common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. any person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would face various regulatory obstacles, including: applicable state insurance laws and regulations may delay or impede a business combination involving us by prohibiting an entity from acquiring control (generally presumed to exist at direct or indirect ownership of 10% or more of voting stock) of an insurance company domiciled in the united states without the prior approval of the domestic insurance regulator. many foreign jurisdictions in which we operate have similar regulatory approval requirements. dodd-frank provisions that could restrict or impede consolidations, mergers and acquisitions by systemically significant firms, which could apply to us if we are designated as a non-bank sifi. see business u.s. regulation potential regulation as a non-bank sifi enhanced prudential standards for non-bank sifis. provisions of the investment company act that require approval by the contract owners of our variable contracts in order to effectuate a change of control of any affiliated investment adviser to a mutual fund underlying our variable contracts. finra approval requirements for a change of control of any finra registered broker-dealer that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of metlife, inc. provisions of the delaware general corporation law may affect the ability of an interested stockholder (the owner of 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation) to engage in certain business combinations for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. in addition, metlife, inc.'s certificate of incorporation and by-laws also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests or may otherwise adversely affect prevailing market prices for metlife, inc.'s common stock. these provisions include: a prohibition on the calling of special meetings by stockholders; advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates to the board of directors and stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; and supermajority voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation and by-laws. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 171 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management we have developed an integrated process for managing risk, which we conduct through multiple board and senior management committees (financial and non-financial) within our grm, alm unit, treasury department and investments department. the risk committee structure is designed to provide a consolidated enterprise-wide assessment and management of risk. the erc is responsible for reviewing all material risks to the enterprise and deciding on actions, if necessary, in the event risks exceed desired targets, taking into consideration industry best practices and the current environment to resolve or mitigate those risks. additional committees at the metlife, inc. and subsidiary insurance company level that manage capital and risk positions, approve alm strategies and establish corporate business standards, report to the erc. global risk management independent from the lines of business, the centralized grm, led by the cro collaborates and coordinates across all committees to ensure that all material risks are properly identified, measured, aggregated and reported across the company. the cro reports to the ceo and is primarily responsible for maintaining and communicating the company's enterprise risk policies and for monitoring and analyzing all material risks. grm considers and monitors a full range of risks against the company's solvency, liquidity, earnings, business operations and reputation. grm's primary responsibilities consist of: implementing a corporate risk framework, which outlines our enterprise approach for managing risk; developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring, monitoring and controlling those risks identified in the corporate risk framework; establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels; deploying capital on an economic basis; recommending capital allocations on an economic capital basis; and reporting to (i) the finance and risk committee of metlife, inc.'s board of directors; (ii) the investment committee of mlic's board of directors, which assists metlife, inc.'s board of directors in overseeing certain investment activities of the enterprise; and (iii) the financial and non-financial senior management committees on various aspects of risk. asset/liability management we actively manage our assets using an approach that balances quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity, concentration and investment return. the goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income tax, risk-adjusted investment income and risk-adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are reasonably managed on a cash flow and duration basis. the alm process is the shared responsibility of the alm unit, grm, the portfolio management unit, and the senior members of the business segments and is governed by the alm committees. the alm committees' duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios, establishing investment guidelines and limits and providing oversight of the alm process on a periodic basis. the directives of the alm committees are carried out and monitored through alm working groups which are set up to manage by product type. in addition, our alm steering committee oversees the activities of the underlying alm committees. we establish target asset portfolios for each major insurance product, which represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund our liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. these strategies are monitored through regular review of portfolio metrics, such as effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality by the alm working groups. market risk exposures we regularly analyze our exposure to interest rate, equity market price and foreign currency exchange rate risks. as a result of that analysis, we have determined that the estimated fair values of certain assets and liabilities are materially exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and changes in the equity markets. we have exposure to market risk through our insurance operations and investment activities. for purposes of this disclosure, market risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets. 171 table of contents interest rates our exposure to interest rate changes results most significantly from our holdings of fixed maturity securities, as well as our interest rate sensitive liabilities. the fixed maturity securities include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities and abs, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium- and long-term interest rates. the interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include debt, pabs related to certain investment type contracts, and net embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits which have the same type of interest rate exposure (medium- and long-term interest rates) as fixed maturity securities. we employ product design, pricing and alm strategies to reduce the potential effects of interest rate movements. product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products and the ability to reset crediting rates for certain products. alm strategies include the use of derivatives and duration mismatch limits. see risk factors economic environment and capital markets-related risks we are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risks which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and may cause our net investment income to vary from period to period. foreign currency exchange rates our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar results from our holdings in non-u.s. dollar denominated fixed maturity and equity securities, mortgage loans, and certain liabilities, as well as through our investments in foreign subsidiaries. the principal currencies that create foreign currency exchange rate risk in our investment portfolios and liabilities are the euro, the japanese yen and the british pound. selectively, we use u.s. dollar assets to support certain long duration foreign currency liabilities. through our investments in foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures, we are primarily exposed to the japanese yen, the british pound, the australian dollar, the mexican peso and the korean won. in addition to hedging with foreign currency swaps, forwards and options, local surplus in some countries is held entirely or in part in u.s. dollar assets which further minimizes exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. we have matched much of our foreign currency liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency assets, thereby reducing our risk to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. see risk factors risks related to our business fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our profitability. equity market along with investments in equity securities, we have exposure to equity market risk through certain liabilities that involve long-term guarantees on equity performance such as net embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits and certain pabs. we manage this risk on an integrated basis with other risks through our alm strategies including the dynamic hedging of certain variable annuity guarantee benefits. we also manage equity market risk exposure in our investment portfolio through the use of derivatives. equity exposures associated with other limited partnership interests are excluded from this discussion as they are not considered financial instruments under gaap. management of market risk exposures we use a variety of strategies to manage interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market risk, including the use of derivatives. interest rate risk management to manage interest rate risk, we analyze interest rate risk using various models, including multi-scenario cash flow projection models that forecast cash flows of the liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivatives. these projections involve evaluating the potential gain or loss on most of our in-force business under various increasing and decreasing interest rate environments. the department of financial services regulations require that we perform some of these analyses annually as part of our review of the sufficiency of our regulatory reserves. for several of our legal entities, we maintain segmented operating and surplus asset portfolios for the purpose of alm and the allocation of investment income to product lines. for each segment, invested assets greater than or equal to the gaap liabilities and any non-invested assets allocated to the segment are maintained, with any excess allocated to corporate &amp; other. the business segments may reflect differences in legal entity, statutory line of business and any product market characteristic which may drive a distinct investment strategy with respect to duration, liquidity or credit quality of the invested assets. certain smaller entities make use of unsegmented general accounts for which the investment strategy reflects the aggregate characteristics of liabilities in those entities. we measure relative sensitivities of the value of our assets and liabilities to changes in key assumptions utilizing internal models. these models reflect specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting rates. in addition, these models include asset cash flow projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage loan prepayments and defaults. 172 table of contents common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, are also used to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and liability values to changes in interest rates. in computing the duration of liabilities, consideration is given to all policyholder guarantees and to how we intend to set indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or dividends. each asset portfolio has a duration target based on the liability duration and the investment objectives of that portfolio. where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity of available assets, as is the case with certain retirement and group products, we may support such liabilities with equity investments, derivatives or interest rate curve mismatch strategies. foreign currency exchange rate risk management we assume foreign currency exchange rate risk primarily in three ways: investments in foreign subsidiaries, purchases of foreign currency denominated investments and the sale of certain insurance products. the foreign exchange committee, in coordination with the treasury department, is responsible for managing our exposure to investments in foreign subsidiaries. limits to exposures are established by the treasury department and monitored by grm. the investments department manages exposure. the investments department is responsible for managing the exposure to foreign currency denominated investments. exposure limits to unhedged foreign currency investments are incorporated into the standing authorizations granted to management by the board of directors and are reported to the board of directors on a periodic basis. management of each of the company's segments, with oversight from the foreign exchange committee, is responsible for establishing limits and managing any foreign currency exchange rate exposure caused by the sale or issuance of insurance products. we use foreign currency swaps, forwards and options to mitigate the liability exposure, risk of loss and financial statement volatility associated with our investments in foreign subsidiaries, foreign currency denominated fixed income investments and the sale of certain insurance products. equity market risk management equity market risk exposure through the issuance of variable annuities is managed by our alm unit in partnership with the investments department. equity market risk is realized through our investment in equity securities and is managed by our investments department. we use derivatives to mitigate our equity exposure both in certain liability guarantees such as variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefit and equity securities. these derivatives include exchange-traded equity futures, equity index options contracts and equity variance swaps. we also employ reinsurance to manage these exposures. hedging activities we use derivative contracts primarily to hedge a wide range of risks including interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and equity market risk. derivative hedges are designed to reduce risk on an economic basis while considering their impact on accounting results and gaap and statutory capital. our derivative hedge programs vary depending on the type of risk being hedged. some hedge programs are asset or liability specific while others are portfolio hedges that reduce risk related to a group of liabilities or assets. our use of derivatives by major hedge programs is as follows: risks related to living guarantee benefits we use a wide range of derivative contracts to mitigate the risk associated with variable annuity living guarantee benefits. these derivatives include equity and interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, currency futures/forwards, equity indexed options and interest rate option contracts and equity variance swaps. minimum interest rate guarantees for certain liability contracts, we provide the contractholder a guaranteed minimum interest rate. these contracts include certain fixed annuities and other insurance liabilities. we purchase interest rate floors to reduce risk associated with these liability guarantees. reinvestment risk in long duration liability contracts derivatives are used to hedge interest rate risk related to certain long duration liability contracts. hedges include interest rate swaps and swaptions. foreign currency exchange rate risk we use currency swaps, forwards and options to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risk. these hedges primarily swap foreign currency denominated bonds, investments in foreign subsidiaries or equity market exposures to u.s. dollars. general alm hedging strategies in the ordinary course of managing our asset/liability risks, we use interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, interest rate floors and inflation swaps. these hedges are designed to reduce interest rate risk or inflation risk related to the existing assets or liabilities or related to expected future cash flows. 173 table of contents risk measurement: sensitivity analysis we measure market risk related to our market sensitive assets and liabilities based on changes in interest rates, equity market prices and foreign currency exchange rates utilizing a sensitivity analysis. this analysis estimates the potential changes in estimated fair value based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, equity market prices and foreign currency exchange rates. we believe that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the near term. in performing the analysis summarized below, we used market rates at december 31, 2013 . the sensitivity analysis separately calculates each of our market risk exposures (interest rate, equity market and foreign currency exchange rate) relating to our trading and non-trading assets and liabilities. we modeled the impact of changes in market rates and prices on the estimated fair values of our market sensitive assets and liabilities as follows: the net present values of our interest rate sensitive exposures resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates; the u.s. dollar equivalent estimated fair values of our foreign currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in foreign currency exchange rates; and the estimated fair value of our equity positions due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity market prices. the sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as predictive of our future financial performance. we cannot ensure that our actual losses in any particular period will not exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. limitations related to this sensitivity analysis include: the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgage loans; for the derivatives that qualify as hedges, the impact on reported earnings may be materially different from the change in market values; the analysis excludes liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts and real estate holdings; and the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains unchanged throughout the period. accordingly, we use such models as tools and not as substitutes for the experience and judgment of our management. based on our analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and prices, we have determined that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the estimated fair value of certain assets and liabilities from interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market exposures. the table below illustrates the potential loss in estimated fair value for each market risk exposure of our market sensitive assets and liabilities at december 31, 2013 : december 31, 2013 (in millions) non-trading: interest rate risk $ 6,777 foreign currency exchange rate risk $ 6,562 equity market risk $ 95 trading: interest rate risk $ 11 foreign currency exchange rate risk $ 5 174 table of contents the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our trading and non-trading interest sensitive financial instruments at december 31, 2013 by type of asset or liability: december 31, 2013 notional amount estimated fair value (1) assuming a 10% increase in the yield curve (in millions) assets: fixed maturity securities $ 350,187 $ (6,684 ) equity securities $ 3,402 fair value option and trading securities $ 1,289 (11 ) mortgage loans: held-for-investment $ 58,259 (380 ) held-for-sale 3 mortgage loans, net $ 58,262 (380 ) policy loans $ 13,206 (135 ) short-term investments $ 13,955 (2 ) other invested assets $ 1,103 cash and cash equivalents $ 7,585 accrued investment income $ 4,255 premiums, reinsurance and other receivables $ 3,110 (155 ) other assets $ 352 (5 ) net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) $ 285 (22 ) total assets $ (7,394 ) liabilities: (3) policyholder account balances $ 137,773 $ 597 payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions $ 30,411 short-term debt $ 175 long-term debt $ 18,564 363 collateral financing arrangements $ 3,984 junior subordinated debt securities $ 3,789 133 other liabilities: trading liabilities $ 262 5 other $ 2,240 124 net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) $ (969 ) 528 total liabilities $ 1,750 derivative instruments: interest rate swaps $ 116,894 $ 2,709 $ (935 ) interest rate floors $ 63,064 $ 105 (16 ) interest rate caps $ 39,460 $ 177 52 interest rate futures $ 6,011 $ 5 interest rate options $ 40,978 $ 12 (127 ) interest rate forwards $ 450 $ (30 ) synthetic gics $ 4,409 $ foreign currency swaps $ 24,472 $ (693 ) (15 ) foreign currency forwards $ 17,428 $ (332 ) (2 ) currency futures $ 1,316 $ currency options $ 9,627 $ 323 (7 ) credit default swaps $ 12,780 $ 121 equity futures $ 5,157 $ (42 ) equity options $ 37,411 $ 276 (72 ) variance swaps $ 21,636 $ (403 ) 3 total rate of return swaps $ 3,802 $ (179 ) total derivative instruments $ (1,144 ) net change $ (6,788 ) ______________ 175 table of contents (1) separate account assets and liabilities and contractholder-directed unit-linked investments and associated pabs, which are interest rate sensitive, are not included herein as any interest rate risk is borne by the contractholder. mortgage loans, fair value option and trading securities and long-term debt exclude $1.6 billion, $23 million and $1.5 billion, respectively, related to cses. see note 8 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding cses. (2) embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. (3) excludes $203.2 billion of liabilities, at carrying value, pursuant to insurance contracts reported within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances. these liabilities would economically offset a significant portion of the net change in fair value of our financial instruments resulting from a 10% increase in the yield curve. interest rate risk increased by $787 million, or 13%, to $6.8 billion at december 31, 2013 from $6.0 billion at december 31, 2012 . this change was primarily due to an increase in interest rates across the swap and u.s. treasury curves of $1.2 billion and was offset by the use of derivatives by the company of $442 million during the year ended december 31, 2013 . 176 table of contents the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our portfolio due to a 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates at december 31, 2013 by type of asset or liability: december 31, 2013 notional amount estimated fair value (1) assuming a 10% increase in the foreign exchange rate (in millions) assets: fixed maturity securities $ 350,187 $ (8,590 ) equity securities $ 3,402 (100 ) fair value option and trading securities $ 1,289 (5 ) mortgage loans: held-for-investment $ 58,259 (644 ) held-for-sale 3 mortgage loans, net $ 58,262 (644 ) policy loans $ 13,206 (168 ) short-term investments $ 13,955 (228 ) other invested assets $ 1,103 (102 ) cash and cash equivalents $ 7,585 (293 ) accrued investment income $ 4,255 (70 ) premiums, reinsurance and other receivables $ 3,110 (60 ) other assets $ 352 (7 ) net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) $ 285 (12 ) total assets $ (10,279 ) liabilities: (3) policyholder account balances $ 137,773 $ 2,649 payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions $ 30,411 121 long-term debt $ 18,564 137 other liabilities $ 2,502 13 net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) $ (969 ) 130 total liabilities $ 3,050 derivative instruments: interest rate swaps $ 116,894 $ 2,709 $ (31 ) interest rate floors $ 63,064 $ 105 interest rate caps $ 39,460 $ 177 interest rate futures $ 6,011 $ 1 interest rate options $ 40,978 $ 12 (7 ) interest rate forwards $ 450 $ synthetic gics $ 4,409 $ foreign currency swaps $ 24,472 $ (693 ) 668 foreign currency forwards $ 17,428 $ (332 ) (209 ) currency futures $ 1,316 $ (112 ) currency options $ 9,627 $ 323 361 credit default swaps $ 12,780 $ 121 equity futures $ 5,157 $ (42 ) 5 equity options $ 37,411 $ 276 (15 ) variance swaps $ 21,636 $ (403 ) 1 total rate of return swaps $ 3,802 $ (179 ) total derivative instruments $ 662 net change $ (6,567 ) ______________ (1) does not necessarily represent those financial instruments solely subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk. separate account assets and liabilities and contractholder-directed unit-linked investments and associated pabs, which are foreign currency exchange rate sensitive, are not included herein as any foreign currency exchange rate risk is borne by the contractholder. mortgage loans, fair value option and trading securities and long-term debt exclude $1.6 billion, $23 million and $1.5 billion, respectively, related to cses. see note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for information regarding cses. (2) embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. 177 table of contents (3) excludes $203.2 billion of liabilities, at carrying value, pursuant to insurance contracts reported within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances. these liabilities would economically offset a significant portion of the net change in fair value of our financial instruments resulting from a 10% increase in foreign currency exchange rates. foreign currency exchange rate risk decreased by $5 million during the year ended december 31, 2013 . this change was primarily due to an increase in exposure to the british pound offset by a decrease in exposure to the japanese yen. the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our portfolio due to a 10% change in equity at december 31, 2013 by type of asset or liability: december 31, 2013 notional amount estimated fair value (1) assuming a 10% increase in equity prices (in millions) assets: equity securities $ 3,402 $ 340 net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) $ 285 (17 ) total assets 323 liabilities: policyholder account balances $ 137,773 net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) $ (969 ) 665 total liabilities $ 665 derivative instruments: interest rate swaps $ 116,894 $ 2,709 $ interest rate floors $ 63,064 $ 105 interest rate caps $ 39,460 $ 177 interest rate futures $ 6,011 $ interest rate options $ 40,978 $ 12 interest rate forwards $ 450 $ synthetic gics $ 4,409 $ foreign currency swaps $ 24,472 $ (693 ) foreign currency forwards $ 17,428 $ (332 ) currency futures $ 1,316 $ currency options $ 9,627 $ 323 credit default swaps $ 12,780 $ 121 equity futures $ 5,157 $ (42 ) (456 ) equity options $ 37,411 $ 276 (238 ) variance swaps $ 21,636 $ (403 ) 10 total rate of return swaps $ 3,802 $ (179 ) (399 ) total derivative instruments $ (1,083 ) net change $ (95 ) ______________ (1) does not necessarily represent those financial instruments solely subject to equity price risk. additionally, separate account assets and liabilities and contractholder-directed unit-linked investments and associated pabs, which are equity market sensitive, are not included herein as any equity market risk is borne by the contractholder. (2) embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. equity price risk decreased by $224 million to $95 million at december 31, 2013 from $319 million at december 31, 2012 . this decrease was primarily due to the use of derivatives by the company. 178 table of contentsrisk factors 34 risk factors economic environment and capital markets-related risks if difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally persist, they may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations our business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally. stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in financial asset classes or various markets, including global capital markets, can have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and our insurance liabilities are sensitive to changing market factors. global market factors, including interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, deflation and inflation, all affect our financial condition, as well as the volume, profitability and results of our business operations, either directly or by virtue of their impact on the business and economic environment generally and on general levels of economic activity, employment and customer behavior specifically. disruptions in one market or asset class can also spread to other markets or asset classes. upheavals in the financial markets can also affect our financial condition (including our liquidity and capital levels) as a result of mismatched impacts on the value of our assets and our liabilities. while our diversified business mix and geographically diverse business operations partially mitigate these risks, correlation across regions, countries and global market factors may reduce the benefits of diversification. at times throughout the past few years, volatile conditions have characterized financial markets. significant market volatility, and government actions taken in response, may exacerbate some of the risks we face. concerns about global economic conditions, capital markets and the solvency of certain eu member states, their banking systems and the financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by these countries or significant exposure to their banking systems, have caused elevated levels of market volatility. this market volatility has affected the performance of various asset classes at various times, and it could continue until there is an ultimate resolution of these sovereign debt and banking system-related concerns. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment. the financial markets have also been affected periodically by concerns over u.s. fiscal policy. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends financial and economic environment. any of these concerns could have significant adverse effects on the economic and financial markets generally. 34 table of contents to the extent these uncertain financial market conditions persist, our revenues and net investment income are likely to remain under pressure. similarly, sustained periods of low interest rates could cause our profit margins to erode. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends impact of a sustained low interest rate environment. also, in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur significant capital and/or operating losses due to, among other reasons, losses incurred in our general account and as a result of the impact on us of guarantees, capital maintenance obligations and/or collateral requirements associated with our affiliated reinsurers and other similar arrangements. even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility, which may also increase the cost and limit the availability of the hedging instruments and other protective measures we take to mitigate such risk. we are a significant writer of variable insurance products and certain other products issued through separate accounts. the account values of these products decrease as a result of declining equity markets. lower interest rates generally increase account values in the near term, but may result in lower returns in fixed income options in the future. decreases in account values reduce fees generated by these products, cause the amortization of dac to accelerate, could increase the level of insurance liabilities we must carry to support such products issued with any associated guarantees and could require us to provide additional funding to our captive reinsurers. in an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. group insurance, in particular, is affected by higher unemployment rates. in addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. furthermore, our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. such adverse changes in the economy could negatively affect our earnings and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the financial crisis has precipitated, and may continue to raise the possibility of, legislative, judicial, regulatory and other governmental actions. see regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth, and risks related to our business competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability below. adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, our access to capital and our cost of capital the capital and credit markets may be subject to periods of extreme volatility and disruption, which could cause our liquidity and credit capacity to be limited. we need liquidity to pay claims and other operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock, provide our subsidiaries with cash or collateral, maintain our securities lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities. without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail our operations, and our business and financial results may suffer. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources. in the event market or other conditions have an adverse impact on our capital and liquidity, or our stress-testing indicates that such conditions could have such an impact beyond expectations and our current resources do not satisfy our needs or regulatory requirements, we may have to seek additional financing. the availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as the then current market conditions, regulatory considerations, availability of credit to us and the financial services industry generally, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and the perception of our customers and lenders regarding our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large operating or investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to a market downturn. similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient and, in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. our liquidity requirements may change if, among other things, we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral on short notice under securities lending agreements. see investments-related risks should the need arise, we may have difficulty selling certain holdings in our investment portfolio or in our securities lending program in a timely manner and realizing full value given their illiquid nature and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments securities lending. 35 table of contents disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital needed to operate our business, most significantly in our insurance operations. such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities, satisfy regulatory capital requirements, and access the capital necessary to grow our business. as a result, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue different types of securities than we would have otherwise, less effectively deploy such capital, issue shorter tenor securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. we are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risks which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and may cause our net investment income to vary from period to period we are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risks, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, market volatility, global economic performance in general, the performance of specific obligors, including governments, included in our investment portfolio and other factors outside our control. interest rate risk some of our products, principally traditional whole life insurance, fixed annuities and guaranteed interest contracts, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our investment margin or spread, or the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts in our general account and the rate of return we earn on general account investments intended to support obligations under such contracts. our spread is a key component of our net income. in a low interest rate environment, we may be forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, which will reduce our investment margin. moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the fixed income securities and commercial or agricultural mortgage loans in our investment portfolio with greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates, thereby exacerbating this risk. although lowering interest crediting rates can help offset decreases in spreads on some products, our ability to lower these rates could be limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. as a result, our spread could decrease or potentially become negative. see risks related to our business guarantees within certain of our products may decrease our earnings, increase the volatility of our results, result in higher risk management costs and expose us to increased counterparty risk. our expectation for future spreads is an important component in the amortization of dac and voba. significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period. in addition, during periods of declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be relatively more attractive investments to consumers. this could result in increased premium payments on products with flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans and increased persistency, or a higher percentage of insurance policies remaining in-force from year to year, during a period when our new investments carry lower returns. a decline in market interest rates could also reduce our return on investments that do not support particular policy obligations. during periods of sustained lower interest rates, our reserves for policy liabilities may not be sufficient to meet future policy obligations and may need to be strengthened. accordingly, declining and sustained lower interest rates may materially affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows and significantly reduce our profitability. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends impact of a sustained low interest rate environment. as a global insurance company, we are also affected by the monetary policies of the federal reserve board and of central banks around the world. the federal reserve board has taken a number of actions in recent years to spur economic activity, by keeping interest rates low and through its asset purchase programs, and may take further action to influence rates in the future. such actions may have an impact on the pricing levels of risk-bearing investments, and may adversely impact the level of product sales. central banks in other parts of the world have also pursued accommodative monetary policies. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment. for a discussion of the impact of the low interest rate environment on us, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends impact of a sustained low interest rate environment. 36 table of contents increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect our profitability. in periods of rapidly increasing interest rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, the investments in our general account with higher yielding investments needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep interest sensitive products competitive. we, therefore, may have to accept a lower spread and, thus, lower profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of existing contracts and related assets. in addition, policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals may tend to increase as policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns as interest rates rise. this process may result in cash outflows requiring that we sell investments at a time when the prices of those investments are adversely affected by the increase in market interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses. unanticipated withdrawals, terminations and substantial policy amendments may cause us to accelerate the amortization of dac and voba, which reduces net income and may also cause us to accelerate the amortization of negative voba, which increases net income. an increase in market interest rates could also have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the estimated fair values of the fixed income securities that comprise a substantial portion of our investment portfolio. finally, an increase in interest rates could result in decreased fee income associated with a decline in the value of variable annuity account balances invested in fixed income funds. however, this increase in interest rates would typically cause any guaranteed living benefits to decline in value. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends impact of a sustained low interest rate environment. we manage interest rate risk as part of our asset and liability management strategies, which include maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration that is approximately equal to the duration of our estimated liability cash flow profile. we also use derivatives to mitigate interest rate risk. although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our fixed income investments relative to our liabilities. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. credit spreads our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price volatility and cash flow variability associated with changes in such spreads. market volatility can make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent. in such case, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period-to-period changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if there is a resumption of significant volatility in the markets, it could cause changes in credit spreads and defaults and a lack of pricing transparency which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. see also management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments investment risks. equity risk our primary exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with certain of our businesses where fee income is earned based upon the estimated fair value of the assets under management. downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a material adverse effect on the revenues and investment returns from our savings and investment products and services. the retail variable annuity business in particular is highly sensitive to equity markets, and a sustained weakness in the equity markets could decrease revenues and earnings with respect to those products. furthermore, certain of our variable annuity products offer guaranteed benefits which increase our potential benefit exposure should equity markets decline. we use derivatives and reinsurance to mitigate the impact of such increased potential benefit exposures. we are also exposed to interest rate and equity risk based upon the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return assumptions associated with our pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. sustained declines in long-term interest rates or equity returns likely would have a negative effect on the funded status of these plans. in addition, we invest a portion of our investments in leveraged buy-out funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds. the amount and timing of net investment income from such funds tends to be uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying investments. the timing of distributions from such funds, which depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds' schedules for making distributions and their needs for cash, can be difficult to predict. as a result, the amount of net investment income from these investments can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. significant volatility could adversely impact returns and net investment income on these alternative investment classes. in addition, the estimated fair value of such investments may be impacted by downturns or volatility in equity markets. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 37 table of contents real estate risk our primary exposure to real estate risk relates to commercial, agricultural and residential real estate. our exposure to these risks stems from various factors, including the supply and demand of leasable commercial space, creditworthiness of tenants and partners, capital markets volatility and interest rate fluctuations. although we manage credit risk and market valuation risk for our commercial, agricultural and residential real estate assets through geographic, property type and product type diversification, and asset allocation, general economic conditions and the recovery rate in the commercial, agricultural and residential real estate sectors will continue to influence the performance of these investments. these factors, which are beyond our control, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. obligor-related risks our investment portfolio contains investments in government bonds issued by certain eu member states, including portugal, ireland, italy, greece and spain, and of financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by these countries. recently, the eu member states have experienced above average public debt and unemployment and lower than targeted inflation. a number of member states are significantly impacted by the economies of their more influential neighbors, such as germany, and financial troubles of one nation can lead to troubles in others. in particular, a number of large european banks hold significant amounts of sovereign and/or financial institution debt of other european nations and could experience difficulties as a result of defaults or declines in the value of such debt. concerns regarding these difficulties could disrupt the functioning of the financial markets. our investment portfolio also contains investments, primarily in revenue bonds issued under the auspices of u.s. states and municipalities, and a limited amount of general obligation bonds of u.s. states and municipalities (collectively, state and political subdivision securities ). recently, certain u.s. states and municipalities have faced budget deficits and financial difficulties. the financial difficulties of such u.s. states and municipalities could have an adverse impact on our state and political subdivision securities. foreign currency exchange rate risks our primary foreign currency exchange rate risks are described under risks related to our business fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our profitability. changes in foreign currency exchange rates can significantly affect our net investment income in any period, and such changes can be substantial. this risk will increase if a country withdraws from the euro zone. in such case, the national currency to which such a country may revert will likely be devalued and contracts using the euro will need to be renegotiated. any such devaluation and its related consequences for our contracts and investments in any such country could be significant and materially adversely affect our operations and earnings in that country. any operations we may have in any such withdrawing country could also be materially adversely affected by legal or governmental actions related to conversion from the euro to a national currency. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. summary significant volatility in the markets could cause changes in interest rates, declines in equity prices, and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses, impairments, increased valuation allowances and changes in unrealized gain or loss positions. regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth our insurance operations and brokerage businesses are subject to a wide variety of insurance and other laws and regulations. see business regulation, as supplemented by discussions of regulatory developments in our subsequently filed quarterly reports on form 10-q under the caption management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends regulatory developments. 38 table of contents u.s regulation insurance regulation state insurance regulators and the naic regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, that are made for the benefit of the consumer sometimes lead to additional expense for the insurer and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. state insurance regulators and the naic are investigating the use of affiliated captive reinsurers and offshore entities to reinsure insurance risk. like many life insurance companies, we utilize captive reinsurers to satisfy reserve and capital requirements related to universal life and term life insurance policies. insurance regulators in a few states, including new york and california, have imposed a moratorium on new reinsurance transactions between life insurers domiciled in those states and captive reinsurers. if additional state insurance regulators restrict the use of such captive reinsurers, or if we otherwise are unable to continue to use captive reinsurers in the future, our ability to write certain products and/or our rbc ratios and ability to deploy excess capital, could be adversely affected or we may need to increase prices on those products, which could adversely impact our competitive position and our results of operations. see note 16 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. for more information on our use of captive reinsurers, see also management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company capital affiliated captive reinsurance transactions. u.s. federal regulation affecting insurance currently, the u.s. federal government does not directly regulate the business of insurance. however, dodd-frank established the fio within the department of the treasury, which has the authority to participate in the negotiations of international insurance agreements with foreign regulators for the u.s., as well as to collect information about the insurance industry and recommend prudential standards. on december 12, 2013, the fio issued a report, mandated by dodd-frank, setting forth recommendations with respect to modernization of insurance regulation in the united states. the report raised the possibility of a greater role for the federal government if states do not achieve greater uniformity in their laws and regulations. we cannot predict whether any such legislation or regulatory changes will be adopted, or what impact they will have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see business regulation u.s. regulation insurance regulation holding company regulation federal initiatives. federal legislation and administrative policies can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies, including policies regarding financial services regulation, securities regulation, derivatives regulation, pension regulation, health care regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. in addition, various forms of direct and indirect federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time, including proposals for the establishment of an optional federal charter for insurance companies. other aspects of our insurance operations could also be affected by dodd-frank. regulation of metlife as a non-bank sifi on december 18, 2014, the fsoc designated metlife, inc. as a non-bank sifi. as a non-bank sifi, metlife, inc. is subject to regulation by the federal reserve and to enhanced supervision and prudential standards. many of the regulatory requirements that will apply to us have not been specified. the federal reserve board has indicated that it plans to apply enhanced prudential standards to non-bank sifis by rule or order. accordingly, the manner in which these proposed standards might apply to metlife, inc. remains unclear. regulation of metlife, inc. as a non-bank sifi could materially and adversely affect our business. see business regulation u.s. regulation regulation as a non-bank sifi. in particular, the federal reserve board has not determined the requirements that will govern the amount and composition of capital that metlife, inc. is required to hold. if the federal reserve board requires insurers that are non-bank sifis to comply with capital standards or regimes (such as the basel capital rules that were developed for banks) that do not take into account the insurance business model and the differences between banks and insurers, our business and competitive position could be materially and adversely affected. the capital requirements that apply to us could also constrain our ability to pay dividends, repurchase common stock or other securities or engage in other transactions that could affect our capital. enhanced capital requirements could adversely affect our ability to compete with other insurers that are not subject to those requirements, and our ability to issue guarantees could be constrained. we could have to raise the price of the products we offer, reduce the amount of risk we take on, or stop offering certain products altogether. legislation was signed into law on december 18, 2014 relieving the federal reserve board from certain provisions in dodd-frank that it believed might constrain its ability to tailor capital rules for insurers that are non-bank sifis. see business regulation u.s. regulation regulation as a non-bank sifi. 39 table of contents additional prudential standards that the federal reserve board may promulgate for non-bank sifis will likely include leverage limits, liquidity requirements, single counterparty exposure limits, governance requirements for risk management, stress test requirements, special debt-to-equity limits for certain companies, early remediation procedures, and recovery and resolution planning. the federal reserve board also has the right to require any of metlife, inc.'s insurance companies, or insurance company affiliates, to take prompt action to correct any financial weaknesses. in addition, under the so-called volcker rule, the federal reserve board could impose additional capital requirements and quantitative limits on certain trading and investment activities of a non-bank sifi. as a result of our designation as a non-bank sifi, metlife, inc. will be subject to such requirements and limits as the federal reserve board may impose. non-bank sifis and certain other large financial companies can be assessed under dodd-frank for any uncovered costs arising in connection with the resolution of a systemically important financial company. in addition, as a non-bank sifi, metlife, inc. must pay, beginning in 2015, certain assessments and other charges. see business regulation u.s. regulation regulation as a non-bank sifi. other federal regulatory agencies as part of dodd-frank, congress established the cfpb, which supervises and regulates institutions providing certain financial products and services to consumers. although the consumer financial services to which this legislation applies exclude insurance business of the kind in which we engage, the cfpb has authority to regulate non-insurance consumer services provided by metlife. see business regulation u.s. regulation consumer protection laws. metlife, inc.'s subsidiary, mlhl, which merged with metlife, inc.'s former subsidiary, metlife bank, is regulated by the cfpb. mortgage and foreclosure-related exposures state and federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities have initiated various inquiries and investigations of alleged irregularities in the foreclosure practices of the residential mortgage servicing industry, mortgage origination and mortgage servicing practices. although we have reached settlements with some regulators relating to our mortgage servicing activities, pending or additional inquiries, investigations or examinations may result in further monetary payments or other measures against us. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends mortgage and foreclosure-related exposures. erisa considerations we provide products and services to certain employee benefit plans that are subject to erisa or the code. as such, our activities are subject to the restrictions imposed by erisa and the code, including the requirement that fiduciaries must perform their duties solely in the interests of erisa plan participants and beneficiaries, and the requirement under erisa and the code that fiduciaries may not cause a covered plan to engage in prohibited transactions with persons who have certain relationships with respect to those plans. the prohibited transaction rules generally restrict the provision of investment advice to erisa plans and participants and iras if the investment recommendation results in fees paid to the individual advisor, his or her firm or their affiliates that vary according to the investment recommendation chosen. regulations adopted in october 2011 in this area provide some relief from these investment advice restrictions. if additional relief is not provided, the ability of our affiliated broker-dealers and their registered representatives to provide investment advice to erisa plans and participants and iras would likely be significantly restricted. other proposed regulations in this area may negatively impact the current business model of our broker-dealers, including proposed changes to broaden the definition of fiduciary, thereby increasing the regulation of persons providing investment advice to erisa plans and iras. these proposed regulations are expected in 2015. see business regulation u.s. regulation erisa considerations. 40 table of contents international regulation our international insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. a significant portion of our revenues is generated through operations in foreign jurisdictions, including many countries in early stages of economic and political development. our international operations may be materially adversely affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and regulators, such as through nationalization or expropriation of assets, the imposition of limits on foreign ownership of local companies, changes in laws (including tax laws and regulations), their application or interpretation, political instability (including any resulting economic or trade sanctions), dividend limitations, price controls, changes in applicable currency, currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold to u.s. dollars or other currencies, as well as other adverse actions by foreign governmental authorities or regulators. this may also impact many of our customers and independent sales intermediaries. changes in the laws and regulations that affect these customers and independent sales intermediaries or their operations also may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or distribute our products. accordingly, these changes and actions may negatively affect our business in these jurisdictions. we expect the scope and extent of regulation outside of the u.s., as well as regulatory oversight, generally, to continue to increase. the authority of our international operations to conduct business is subject to licensing requirements, permits and approvals, and these authorizations are subject to modification and revocation. the regulatory environment in the countries in which we operate and changes in laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. see business regulation international regulation and risks related to our business our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability. solvency regimes we are subject to the evolving solvency ii insurance regulatory directive established by the european parliament in 2009 for our insurance business throughout the european economic area, and may be subject to similar solvency regulations in other regions, such as mexico, chile and china. see business regulation international regulation solvency regimes. as requirements are finalized by the regulators, capital requirements might be impacted in a number of jurisdictions. in addition, our legal entity structure throughout europe may impact our capital requirements, risk management infrastructure and reporting by country. global systemically important insurers in the wake of the financial crisis, national and international authorities have proposed measures intended to increase the intensity of regulation of large financial institutions, requiring greater coordination among regulators and efforts to harmonize regulatory regimes. for example, the iais is participating in the fsb's initiative to identify global systemically important financial institutions. to this end, the iais devised and published a methodology to assess the systemic relevance of global insurers and a framework of policy measures to be applied to g-siis. in july 2013 and november 2014 the fsb published its lists of g-siis, based on the iais' assessment methodology, each of which included metlife, inc. while the regulatory regime that would apply to g-siis is still being developed, it is expected to include enhanced capital standards and supervision and other additional requirements that would not apply to companies that are not g-siis. the iais policy measures would need to be implemented by legislation or regulation in each applicable jurisdiction, and the impact on metlife, inc. and other designated g-siis is uncertain. see business regulation international regulation global systemically important insurers. general from time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations or audits of metlife, inc.'s regulated subsidiaries that could, if determined adversely, have a material impact on us. in addition, the interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements. we are also subject to other regulations and may in the future become subject to additional regulations. compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 41 table of contents the dodd-frank provisions compelling the liquidation of certain types of financial institutions could materially and adversely affect metlife, inc., as such a financial institution and as an investor in other such financial institutions, as well as our investors under provisions of dodd-frank, if metlife, inc. or another financial institution were to become insolvent or were in danger of defaulting on its obligations, it could be compelled to undergo liquidation with the fdic as receiver. for this new regime to be applicable, a number of determinations would have to be made, including that a default by the affected company would have serious adverse effects on financial stability in the united states. while under this new regime an insurance company would be resolved in accordance with state insurance law, if the fdic were appointed as the receiver for another type of a company (including an insurance holding company such as metlife, inc.), liquidation of that company would occur under the provisions of the new liquidation authority, and not under the bankruptcy code, which ordinarily governs liquidations. in an fdic-managed liquidation, holders of a company's debt could be treated differently than under the bankruptcy code and similarly-situated creditors could be treated differently. in particular, unsecured creditors and shareholders are intended to bear the losses of the company being liquidated. these provisions could also apply to financial institutions whose debt securities we hold in our investment portfolio and could adversely affect our position as a creditor and the value of our holdings. dodd-frank also provides for the assessment of charges against certain financial institutions, including non-bank sifis and bank holding companies and other financial companies with assets of $50 billion or more, to cover the costs of liquidating any financial company subject to the new liquidation authority. the liquidation authority could increase our funding costs. see business regulation u.s. regulation regulation as a non-bank sifi orderly liquidation authority. legislative and regulatory activity in health care and other employee benefits could affect our profitability as a provider of life insurance, annuities, and non-medical health insurance benefit products the patient protection and affordable care act, signed into law on march 23, 2010, and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010, signed into law on march 30, 2010 (together, the health care act ), may lead to fundamental changes in the way that employers, including us, provide health care benefits, other benefits, and other forms of compensation to their employees and former employees. the health care act also imposes requirements on us as a provider of non-medical health insurance benefits and other products and on the purchasers of certain of these products. in 2014, we became subject to a new excise tax called the health insurer fee, the cost of which will primarily be passed on to group purchasers of certain of our dental and vision insurance products. additionally, with respect to dental insurance products sold to groups with fifty or fewer employees, we have changed certain of our product offerings. the cost of these product changes will also be reflected in our pricing of such products. the health care act or any other related regulations or regulatory actions could adversely affect our ability to offer certain of these products in the same manner as we do today. they could also result in increased or unpredictable costs to provide certain products, and could harm our competitive position if the health care act has a disparate impact on our products compared to products offered by our competitors. on july 14, 2014, the district of columbia ( dc ) adopted a law that imposes an assessment on health insurers doing business in dc, including those that issue policies covering the health insurance portability and accountability act excepted benefits (which includes critical illness, accident, dental, vision, disability income, ltc and hospital indemnity insurance, among other products the company sells). this assessment will spread the funding of the dc public healthcare exchange's $26 million budget across all health insurers, including those that do not and/or could not sell insurance on the exchange. an insurance trade group has filed suit on behalf of the industry challenging this assessment, arguing that it is preempted by the health care act, and that it is unconstitutional. on november 13, 2014, the court granted dc's motion to dismiss the complaint, which is being appealed by the insurance trade group. the company has received assessments totaling approximately $433,000. a number of other states are also considering levying assessments on insurers, other than health insurers, to fund their healthcare exchanges. while the financial impact to the company of dc's action will be minimal, if other states successfully adopt this model, there could be an impact on product pricing and sales. in addition, we employ a substantial number of employees, including sales agents, in the united states to whom we offer employment-related benefits. we also currently provide benefits to certain of our retirees. these benefits are provided under complex plans that are subject to a variety of regulatory requirements. the health care act or related regulations or regulatory actions could adversely affect our ability to attract, retain and motivate our associates. they could also result in increased or unpredictable costs to provide employee benefits, and could harm our competitive position if we are subject to fees, penalties, tax provisions or other limitations in the health care act and our competitors are not. 42 table of contents the preservation of access to care for medicare beneficiaries and pension relief act of 2010 also includes certain provisions for defined benefit pension plan funding relief. these provisions may impact the likelihood and/or timing of corporate plan sponsors terminating their plans and/or engaging in transactions to partially or fully transfer pension obligations to an insurance company. as part of our corporate benefit funding segment, we offer general account and separate account group annuity products that enable a plan sponsor to transfer these risks, often in connection with the termination of defined benefit pension plans. consequently, this legislation could indirectly affect the mix of our business, with fewer closeouts and more non-guaranteed funding products, and adversely impact our results of operations. changes in u.s. federal and state securities laws and regulations, and state insurance regulations regarding suitability of annuity product sales, may affect our operations and our profitability federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to insurance products that are also securities, including variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies. as a result, some of metlife, inc.'s subsidiaries and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance contracts and policies are subject to extensive regulation under these securities laws. federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily intended to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect investors in the securities markets, and to protect investment advisory or brokerage clients. these laws and regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with the securities laws and regulations. a number of changes have recently been suggested to the laws and regulations that govern the conduct of our variable insurance products business and our distributors that could change the way we conduct our business and the products we sell. this may adversely affect our operations and profitability, including increasing the regulatory and compliance burden upon us, resulting in increased costs. see business regulation u.s. regulation securities, broker-dealer and investment adviser regulation. we also may be subject to similar laws and regulations in the foreign countries in which we offer products or conduct other activities similar to those described above. see business regulation international regulation. changes in tax laws or interpretations of such laws could reduce our earnings and materially impact our operations by increasing our corporate taxes and making some of our products less attractive to consumers changes in domestic or foreign tax laws or interpretations of such laws could increase our corporate taxes and reduce our earnings. additionally, global budget deficits make it likely that governments' need for additional revenue will result in future tax proposals that will increase our effective tax rate. however, it remains difficult to predict the timing and effect that future tax law changes could have on our earnings both in the u.s. and in foreign jurisdictions. additionally, u.s. tax laws currently afford certain benefits to life insurance and annuity products. the obama administration and some members of congress have proposed certain changes to rules applicable to certain of these products and to individual income tax rates in general. changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to consumers. a shift away from life insurance and annuity contracts and other tax-deferred products by our customers would reduce our income from sales of these products, as well as the asset base upon which we earn investment income and fees, thereby reducing our earnings and potentially affecting the value of our deferred tax assets. litigation and regulatory investigations are increasingly common in our businesses and may result in significant financial losses and/or harm to our reputation we face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. our pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings specific to us and others generally applicable to business practices in the industries in which we operate. in connection with our insurance operations, plaintiffs' lawyers may bring or are bringing class actions and individual suits alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product design, disclosure, administration, denial or delay of benefits and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers. plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages. due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular points in time may normally be difficult to ascertain. uncertainties can include how fact finders will evaluate documentary evidence and the credibility and effectiveness of witness testimony, and how trial and appellate courts will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal. disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the relevant evidence and applicable law. material pending litigation and regulatory matters affecting us and risks to our business presented by these proceedings are discussed in note 21 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. updates are provided in the notes to our interim condensed consolidated financial statements included in our subsequently filed quarterly reports on form 10-q, as well as in part ii, item 1 ( legal proceedings ) of those quarterly reports. 43 table of contents we are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as information requests, subpoenas and books and record examinations, from state and federal regulators and other authorities. a substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against us, as well as regulatory inquiries or investigations could harm our reputation, result in material fines or penalties, result in significant legal costs and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation, regulatory action or investigation, our ability to attract new customers, retain our current customers and recruit and retain employees could be materially and adversely impacted. regulatory inquiries and litigation may also cause volatility in the price of stocks of companies in our industry. current claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and other proceedings against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. it is also possible that related or unrelated claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and proceedings may be commenced in the future, and we could become subject to further investigations and have lawsuits filed or enforcement actions initiated against us. we currently have a market presence in nearly 50 countries and may be subject to additional investigations and lawsuits in these jurisdictions. increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings in any of the countries where we operate could result in new legal actions and precedents and industry-wide regulations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. investments-related risks should the need arise, we may have difficulty selling certain holdings in our investment portfolio or in our securities lending program in a timely manner and realizing full value given their illiquid nature there may be a limited market for certain investments we hold in our investment portfolio, making them relatively illiquid. these include privately-placed fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, policy loans, leveraged leases, other limited partnership interests, and real estate equity, such as real estate joint ventures and funds. in recent years, even some of our very high quality investments experienced reduced liquidity during periods of market volatility or disruption. if we were forced to sell certain of our investments during periods of market volatility or disruption, market prices may be lower than our carrying value in such investments. this could result in realized losses which could have a material adverse effect on our net income and financial position. similarly, we loan blocks of our securities to third parties (primarily brokerage firms and commercial banks) through our securities lending program, including fixed maturity and equity securities, short-term investments and cash equivalents. under this program, we obtain collateral, usually cash, at the inception of a loan and typically purchase securities with the cash collateral. upon the return to us of these loaned securities, we must return to the third party the cash collateral we received. if the cash collateral has been invested in securities, we need to sell the securities. however, in some cases, the maturity of those securities may exceed the term of the related securities on loan and the estimated fair value of the securities we need to sell may fall below the amount of cash received. if we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral under our securities lending program or otherwise need significant amounts of cash on short notice and we are forced to sell securities, we may have difficulty selling such collateral that is invested in securities in a timely manner, be forced to sell securities in a volatile or illiquid market for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize under normal market conditions, or both. in the event of a forced sale, accounting guidance requires the recognition of a loss for securities in an unrealized loss position and may require the impairment of other securities based on our ability to hold those securities, which would negatively impact our financial condition. in addition, under stressful capital market and economic conditions, liquidity broadly deteriorates, which may further restrict our ability to sell securities. furthermore, if we decrease the amount of our securities lending activities over time, the amount of net investment income generated by these activities will also likely decline. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital uses securities lending. 44 table of contents our requirements to pledge collateral or make payments related to declines in estimated fair value of derivatives transactions or specified assets in connection with otc-cleared and otc-bilateral transactions may adversely affect our liquidity, expose us to central clearinghouse and counterparty credit risk, and increase our costs of hedging substantially all of our derivatives transactions require us to pledge collateral related to any decline in the net estimated fair value of such derivatives transactions executed through a specific broker at a clearinghouse or entered into with a specific counterparty on a bilateral basis. certain derivatives financing transactions require us to pledge collateral or make payments related to declines in the estimated fair value of the specified assets under certain circumstances to central clearinghouses or our counterparties. the amount of collateral we may be required to pledge and the payments we may be required to make under our derivatives transactions may increase under certain circumstances and will likely increase under dodd-frank as a result of the requirement to pledge initial margin for otc derivatives that are cleared and settled through central clearing counterparties ( otc-cleared ) transactions entered into after june 10, 2013 and for otc derivatives that are bilateral contracts between two counterparties ( otc-bilateral ) entered into after the phase-in period, which would be applicable to us in 2019 if the prudential regulators, the cftc and the sec adopt the final margin requirements for non-centrally cleared derivatives published by the bank of international settlements and international organization of securities commissions in september 2013 and re-proposed by the prudential regulators and cftc in september 2014. each of these items could also adversely affect our liquidity. the prudential regulators, cftc, central clearinghouses and counterparties may also restrict or eliminate certain types of previously eligible collateral, which could also adversely affect our liquidity, or charge us to pledge such collateral, which would increase our costs. see business regulation u.s. regulation regulation of over-the-counter derivatives, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital uses pledged collateral, and note 9 of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements. gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities and defaults, downgrades or other events may result in future impairments to the carrying value of such securities, resulting in a reduction in our net income fixed maturity securities represented 71% of our total cash and invested assets at december 31, 2014. fixed maturity and equity securities classified as available-for-sale ( afs ) securities are reported at their estimated fair value. unrealized gains or losses on afs securities are recognized as a component of other comprehensive income (loss) and are, therefore, excluded from net income. in recent periods, as a result of low interest rates, the unrealized gains on our fixed maturity securities have far exceeded the unrealized losses. however, if interest rates rise, our unrealized gains would decrease and our unrealized losses would increase, perhaps substantially. the accumulated change in estimated fair value of these afs securities is recognized in net income when the gain or loss is realized upon the sale of the security or in the event that the decline in estimated fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary and an impairment charge to earnings is taken. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments fixed maturity and equity securities available-for-sale. the occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening risk spreads, or other events that adversely affect the issuers or guarantors of securities or the underlying collateral of structured securities could cause the estimated fair value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio and corresponding earnings to decline and cause the default rate of the fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio to increase. a ratings downgrade affecting issuers or guarantors of particular securities, or similar trends that could worsen the credit quality of issuers, such as the corporate issuers of securities in our investment portfolio, could also have a similar effect. with economic uncertainty, credit quality of issuers or guarantors could be adversely affected. similarly, a ratings downgrade affecting a security we hold could indicate the credit quality of that security has deteriorated and could increase the capital we must hold to support that security to maintain our rbc levels. levels of writedowns or impairments are impacted by intent to sell, or our assessment of the likelihood that we will be required to sell, fixed maturity securities, as well as our intent and ability to hold equity securities which have declined in value until recovery. realized losses or impairments on these securities may have a material adverse effect on our net income in a particular quarterly or annual period. 45 table of contents our valuation of securities and investments and the determination of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on our investments are subjective and include methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations and market conditions and, if changed, could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition fixed maturity, equity, fair value option ( fvo ) and trading securities, as well as short-term investments that are reported at estimated fair value represent the majority of our total cash and investments. we define fair value generally as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability. considerable judgment is often required in interpreting market data to develop estimates of fair value, and the use of different assumptions or valuation methodologies may have a material effect of the estimated fair value amounts. during periods of market disruption including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. in addition, in times of financial market disruption, certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data may become illiquid. in those cases, the valuation process includes inputs that are less observable and require more subjectivity and management judgment. valuations may result in estimated fair values which vary significantly from the amount at which the investments may ultimately be sold. further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in estimated fair value could vary significantly. decreases in the fair value of securities we hold may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments and notes 1 and 10 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. the determination of the amount of allowances and impairments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. we reflect any changes in allowances and impairments in earnings as such evaluations are revised. however, historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances. in addition, any such future impairments or allowances could have a materially adverse effect on our earnings and financial position. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates investment impairments and note 8 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. defaults on our mortgage loans and volatility in performance may adversely affect our profitability our mortgage loans face default risk and are principally collateralized by commercial, agricultural and residential properties. we establish valuation allowances for estimated impairments, which are based on loan risk characteristics, historical default rates and loss severities, real estate market fundamentals and outlooks, as well as other relevant factors. in addition, substantially all of our mortgage loans held-for-investment have balloon payment maturities. an increase in the default rate of our mortgage loan investments or fluctuations in their performance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. further, any geographic or sector concentration of our mortgage loans may have adverse effects on our investment portfolios and consequently on our results of operations or financial condition. while we seek to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated. moreover, our ability to sell assets relating to such particular groups of related assets may be limited if other market participants are seeking to sell at the same time. in addition, legislative proposals that would allow or require modifications to the terms of mortgage loans could be enacted. we cannot predict whether these proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business or investments. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments mortgage loans. 46 table of contents the defaults or deteriorating credit of other financial institutions could adversely affect us we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, central clearinghouses, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge funds and investment funds and other financial institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. in addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. we also have exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments, non-redeemable and redeemable preferred securities, derivatives, joint venture, hedge fund and equity investments. further, potential action by governments and regulatory bodies in response to the financial crisis affecting the global banking system and financial markets, such as investment, nationalization, conservatorship, receivership and other intervention, whether under existing legal authority or any new authority that may be created, or lack of action by governments and central banks, as well as deterioration in the banks' credit standing, could negatively impact these instruments, securities, transactions and investments or limit our ability to trade with them. any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these investments or other changes may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. risks related to our business our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability our international operations face political, legal, financial, operational and other risks. these operations may be materially adversely affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and regulators, such as through nationalization or expropriation of assets, the imposition of limits on foreign ownership of local companies, changes in laws (including tax laws and regulations), their application or interpretation, political instability (including any resulting economic or trade sanctions), dividend limitations, price controls, changes in applicable currency, currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold into u.s. dollars or other currencies, as well as other adverse actions by foreign governmental authorities and regulators, such as the retroactive application of new requirements on our current and prior activities or operations and the imposition of regulations limiting our ability to distribute our products. such actions may negatively affect our business in these jurisdictions and could indirectly affect our business in other jurisdictions as well. some of our foreign insurance operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where these risks are heightened. see business regulation international regulation and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, as well as regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. we have operations in regions where the legal and political systems and regulatory frameworks are subject to instability and disruptions. for example, instability has increased in many parts of the middle east as well as argentina, ukraine and russia. lack of legal certainty and stability in these regions exposes our operations there to increased risk of disruption and to adverse or unpredictable actions by regulators and may make it more difficult for us to enforce our contracts, which may negatively impact our business in these regions. we have market presence in nearly 50 different countries and increased exposure to risks posed by local and regional economic conditions. europe continues to experience a recession and overall sluggish economic performance, with concerns over low inflation becoming more pronounced. unfavorable economic conditions in europe could adversely impact the demand for our products, negatively impact earnings, adversely affect the performance of our investments or result in impairments, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. see economic environment and capital markets-related risks if difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally persist, they may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. countries in europe's perimeter region have been particularly affected by the recession, resulting in increased national debts and depressed economic activity. we have significant operations and investments in these countries which could be adversely affected by economic developments such as higher taxes, growing inflation, deflation, decreasing government spending, rising unemployment and currency instability. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment. 47 table of contents in addition, we face substantial exposure to the japanese economy given our operations there. despite some recovery in gross domestic product ( gdp ) growth and rising inflation in the first half of 2014, momentum has slowed and structural weaknesses and debt sustainability have yet to be addressed effectively. this leaves the economy vulnerable to further disruption, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. see risks related to our business fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our profitability, and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends financial and economic environment. furthermore, we rely on local sales forces in these countries and may encounter labor problems resulting from workers' associations and trade unions in some countries. in several countries, including china and india, we operate with local business partners and managing these partner relationships poses risks to our business objectives. if our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training the sales force in that country. lastly, we are continuing to expand our international operations in certain markets where we operate and in selected new markets. this may require considerable management time, as well as start-up expenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. the prospects of our business also may be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to manage the growth of such international operations successfully. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in managing such future growth. further, operations in new foreign markets may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in existing markets may be affected by local political, economic and market conditions. therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not achieve expected operating margins and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our profitability we are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar resulting from our holdings of non-u.s. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries and net income from foreign operations and issuance of non-u.s. dollar denominated instruments, including guaranteed interest contracts and funding agreements. in general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the u.s. dollar will adversely affect the estimated fair value of our non-u.s. dollar denominated investments, our investments in foreign subsidiaries, and our net income from foreign operations. in addition, from time to time, various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies. our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk is exacerbated by our investments in these emerging markets. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in addition, certain of our life and annuity products are exposed to foreign exchange rate risk. payments under these contracts, depending on the circumstances, may be required to be made in different currencies and may not be the legal tender in the country whose law governs the particular product. changes in exchange rate movements and the imposition of capital controls may also directly impact the liability valuation that may not be entirely hedged. if the currency upon which expected future payments are made strengthens, the liability valuation may increase, which may result in a reduction of net income. historically, we have matched substantially all of our foreign currency liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with investments denominated in their respective foreign currency, which limits the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuation on local operating results; however, fluctuations in such rates affect the translation of these results into our u.s. dollar basis consolidated financial statements. although we take certain actions to address this risk, including entering into foreign currency derivatives, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation could materially adversely affect our reported results due to unhedged positions or the failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. our reported results could also be adversely affected if the economy of one or more of our foreign subsidiaries is determined to be highly inflationary, generally defined by a cumulative inflation rate of approximately 100% or more over a three-year period. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we face substantial exposure to risks associated with fluctuations in the yen/u.s. dollar exchange rate because we have substantial operations in japan and a significant portion of our premiums and investment income in japan are received in yen. most claims and expenses associated with our operations in japan are also paid in yen and we primarily purchase yen-denominated assets to support yen-denominated policy liabilities. these and other yen-denominated financial statement items are, however, translated into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. accordingly, fluctuations in the yen/u.s. dollar exchange rate can have a significant effect on our reported financial position and results of operations. our japan operation does assume some currency exposure by backing a portion of surplus and yen-denominated liabilities with u.s. dollar assets. although this represents risk to our japan operation, this activity reduces yen exposure at the enterprise level. 48 table of contents due to our significant international operations, during periods when any foreign currency in which we derive our revenues weakens (strengthens), translating amounts expressed in that currency into u.s. dollars causes fewer (more) u.s. dollars to be reported. any unrealized foreign currency translation adjustments are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). the weakening of a foreign currency relative to the u.s. dollar will generally adversely affect the value of investments in u.s. dollar terms and reduce the level of reserves denominated in that currency. an inability to access our credit facilities could result in a reduction in our liquidity and lead to downgrades in our credit and financial strength ratings we rely on our credit facilities as a potential source of liquidity. the availability of these facilities could be critical to our credit and financial strength ratings and our ability to meet our obligations as they come due in a market when alternative sources of credit are tight. these credit facilities contain certain administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants, including a requirement to maintain a specified minimum consolidated net worth. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital sources credit and committed facilities and note 12 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. our right to borrow funds under these facilities is subject to the fulfillment of certain important conditions, including our compliance with all covenants, and our ability to borrow under these facilities is also subject to the continued willingness and ability of the lenders that are parties to the facilities to provide funds. our failure to comply with the covenants in the credit facilities or fulfill the conditions to borrowings, or the failure of lenders to fund their lending commitments (whether due to insolvency, illiquidity or other reasons) in the amounts provided for under the terms of the facilities, would restrict our ability to access these credit facilities when needed and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may need to fund deficiencies in our closed block; assets allocated to the closed block benefit only the holders of closed block policies mlic's plan of reorganization, as amended, established in connection with its demutualization (the plan of reorganization ), required that we establish and operate an accounting mechanism, known as a closed block, to ensure that the reasonable dividend expectations of policyholders who own individual participating whole life insurance policies of mlic in force at the time of the demutualization are met. we allocated assets to the closed block in an amount that will produce cash flows which, together with anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block, are reasonably expected to be sufficient to support obligations and liabilities relating to these policies, including, but not limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain expenses and tax, and to provide for the continuation of the policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999, if the experience underlying such scales continues, and for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience changes. the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block may not be sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies. if they are not, we must fund the shortfall. even if they are sufficient, we may choose, for competitive reasons, to support policyholder dividend payments with our general account funds. the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenues from the policies in the closed block will benefit only the holders of the policies in the closed block. in addition, to the extent that these amounts are greater than the amounts estimated at the time the closed block was funded, dividends payable in respect of the policies included in the closed block may be greater than they would be in the absence of a closed block. any excess earnings will be available for distribution over time only to closed block policyholders. the assets and liabilities of the closed block were $42.8 billion and $46.2 billion, respectively, at december 31, 2014. see note 7 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. a downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could result in a loss of business and materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations financial strength ratings are published by various nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ( nrsro ) and similar entities not formally recognized as nrsros. they indicate the nrsros' opinion regarding an insurance company's ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations, and are important to maintaining public confidence in our products and our competitive position. see business company ratings for additional information regarding our financial strength ratings. 49 table of contents downgrades in our financial strength ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including: reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other investment products; adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and independent sales intermediaries; materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders; requiring us to post additional collateral under certain of our financing and derivative transactions; requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and services to remain competitive ; and adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices or at all. in addition to the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries, various nrsros also publish credit ratings for metlife, inc. and several of its subsidiaries. credit ratings indicate the nrsros' opinion regarding a debt issuer's ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner and are important factors in our overall funding profile and ability to access certain types of liquidity. downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including limiting our access to capital markets, potentially increasing the cost of debt, and requiring us to post collateral. see note 9 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding the impact of a one-notch downgrade with respect to derivative transactions with credit rating downgrade triggers and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital uses pledged collateral for information on the impact of a one-notch downgrade. see also management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company capital rating agencies. in view of the difficulties experienced by many financial institutions as a result of the financial crisis and ensuing global recession, including our competitors in the insurance industry, we believe it is possible that the nrsros will continue to heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to insurance companies, will continue to increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, will continue to request additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without notice by any nrsro. reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses as part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various business segments. while reinsurance agreements generally bind the reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured at generally fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new business. in certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for business already reinsured may also increase. for example, for some of our group businesses under which the policies and related reinsurance are subject to periodic (typically annual) renewal, prices may increase at any renewal. also, for most of our traditional life reinsurance agreements, it is common for the reinsurer to have a right to increase reinsurance rates on in-force business if there is a systematic deterioration of mortality in the market as a whole. any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to those policies we issue. see business reinsurance activity and risks related to our business if the counterparties to our reinsurance or indemnification arrangements or to the derivatives we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. if the counterparties to our reinsurance or indemnification arrangements or to the derivatives we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations we use reinsurance, indemnification and derivatives to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. in general, reinsurance, indemnification and derivatives do not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers, indemnitors, counterparties and central clearinghouses. a reinsurer's, indemnitor's, counterparty's or central clearinghouse's insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of reinsurance agreements, indemnity agreements or derivatives agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, including our liquidity. see business reinsurance activity. 50 table of contents in addition, we use derivatives to hedge various business risks. we enter into a variety of derivatives, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit default and currency swaps with a number of counterparties on a bilateral basis for uncleared otc derivatives and with clearing broker and central clearinghouses for otc-cleared derivatives. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations derivatives. if our counterparties, clearing brokers or central clearinghouses fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivatives, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. this risk is more pronounced in light of the stresses suffered by financial institutions over the past few years. such failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. differences between actual claims experience and underwriting and reserving assumptions may adversely affect our financial results our earnings significantly depend upon the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in setting prices for our products and establishing liabilities for future policy benefits and claims. such amounts are established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims. to the extent that actual claims experience is less favorable than the underlying assumptions we used in establishing such liabilities, we could be required to increase our liabilities. due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of liabilities for future policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely the amounts which we will ultimately pay to settle our liabilities. such amounts may vary from the estimated amounts, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future. we evaluate our liabilities periodically based on accounting requirements, which change from time to time, the assumptions used to establish the liabilities, as well as our actual experience. if the liabilities originally established for future benefit payments prove inadequate, we must increase them. such increases could affect earnings negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. see business policyholder liabilities and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations policyholder liabilities. catastrophes may adversely impact liabilities for policyholder claims and reinsurance availability our insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic events. the extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however, hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis and man-made catastrophes may produce significant damage or loss of life or property damage in larger areas, especially those that are heavily populated. claims resulting from catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition. in addition, catastrophic events could harm the financial condition of issuers of obligations we hold in our investment portfolio, resulting in impairments to these obligations, and the financial condition of our reinsurers, thereby increasing the probability of default on reinsurance recoveries. large-scale catastrophes may also reduce the overall level of economic activity in affected countries which could hurt our business and the value of our investments or our ability to write new business. it is possible that increases in the value, caused by the effects of inflation or other factors, and geographic concentration of insured lives or property, could increase the severity of claims we receive from future catastrophic events. our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that causes a large number of deaths. significant influenza pandemics have occurred three times in the last century; however, the likelihood, timing, and severity of a future pandemic cannot be predicted. a significant pandemic could have a major impact on the global economy or the economies of particular countries or regions, including travel, trade, tourism, the health system, food supply, consumption, overall economic output and, eventually, on the financial markets. in addition, a pandemic that affected our employees or the employees of our distributors or of other companies with which we do business could disrupt our business operations. the effectiveness of external parties, including governmental and non-governmental organizations, in combating the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have a material impact on the losses experienced by us. in our group insurance operations, a localized event that affects the workplace of one or more of our group insurance customers could cause a significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims. these events could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any period and, depending on their severity, could also materially and adversely affect our financial condition. 51 table of contents our property &amp; casualty businesses have experienced, and will likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses that may have a material adverse impact on their business, results of operations and financial condition. although we make every effort to limit our exposure to catastrophic risks through volatility management and reinsurance programs, these efforts do not eliminate all risk. catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards), fires and man-made events such as terrorist attacks. historically, substantially all of our property &amp; casualty catastrophe-related claims have related to homeowners coverages. however, catastrophes may also affect other property &amp; casualty coverages. due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence, timing and severity of catastrophes. in addition, changing climate conditions, primarily rising global temperatures, may increase the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes such as hurricanes. we have hurricane exposure in coastal sections of the northeastern u.s. (including lower new york, new jersey, connecticut, rhode island and massachusetts), the south atlantic states (including virginia, north carolina, south carolina, georgia and florida) and the gulf coast (including alabama, mississippi, louisiana and texas). we also have some earthquake exposure, primarily along the new madrid fault line in the central u.s. and in the pacific northwest. consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we establish liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. we cannot be certain that the liabilities we have established will be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities. from time to time, states have passed legislation that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage risk, such as legislation restricting an insurer's ability to withdraw from catastrophe-prone areas. while we attempt to limit our exposure to acceptable levels, subject to restrictions imposed by insurance regulatory authorities, a catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. most of the jurisdictions in which our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business require life and property &amp; casualty insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations. these associations are organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers, who may become impaired, insolvent or fail, for example, following the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events. these associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is engaged. in addition, certain states have government owned or controlled organizations providing life and property &amp; casualty insurance to their citizens. the activities of such organizations could also place additional stress on the adequacy of guaranty fund assessments. many of these organizations also have the power to levy assessments similar to those of the guaranty associations described above. some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. see business regulation u.s. regulation insurance regulation guaranty associations and similar arrangements and business regulation international regulation. while in the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied against metlife have not been material, it is possible that a large catastrophic event could render such guaranty funds inadequate and we may be called upon to contribute additional amounts, which may have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations in a particular period. we have established liabilities for guaranty fund assessments that we consider adequate, but additional liabilities may be necessary. see note 21 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. our ability to manage this risk and the profitability of our property &amp; casualty and life insurance businesses depends in part on our ability to obtain catastrophe reinsurance, which may not be available at commercially acceptable rates in the future. see risks related to our business reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses. our statutory life insurance reserve financings may be subject to cost increases and new financings may be subject to limited market capacity we currently utilize capital markets solutions to finance a portion of our statutory reserve requirements for several products, including, but not limited to, our level premium term life and ulsg, as well as mlic's closed block. while we have financing facilities in place for certain previously written business, certain of these facilities are subject to cost increases upon the occurrence of specified ratings downgrades of metlife or are subject to periodic repricing. any resulting cost increases could negatively impact our financial results. 52 table of contents future capacity for these statutory reserve funding structures in the marketplace is not guaranteed. currently, the use of captive reinsurers is being studied by the department of financial services and the naic. see regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. insurance regulators in a few states, including new york and california, have imposed a moratorium on new reinsurance transactions between life insurers domiciled in those states and captive reinsurers. if other state insurance regulators determine to restrict the use of captive reinsurers for purposes of funding reserve requirements or capacity in the capital markets otherwise becomes unavailable for a prolonged period of time, thereby hindering our ability to obtain funding for these new structures, our ability to write additional business in a cost effective manner may be impacted. competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability we believe competition amongst insurance companies is based on a number of factors, including service, product features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, e-business capabilities and name recognition. we compete globally with a large number of other insurance companies, as well as non-insurance financial services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset managers, for individual consumers, employers and other group customers and agents and other distributors of insurance and investment products. some of these companies offer a broader array of products, have more competitive pricing or, with respect to other insurance companies, have higher claims paying ability ratings. some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete. in some circumstances, national banks that sell annuity products of life insurers may also have pre-existing customer bases for financial services products. additionally, many of our group insurance products are underwritten annually. there is a risk that group purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors than they could renewing coverage with us. these competitive pressures may adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell our products in the future. furthermore, the investment management and securities brokerage businesses have relatively few barriers to entry and continually attract new entrants. see business competition. the insurance industry distributes many of its individual products through other financial institutions such as banks and broker-dealers. an increase in bank and broker-dealer consolidation activity may negatively impact the industry's sales, and such consolidation could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market insurance products to our current customer base or to expand our customer base. consolidation of distributors and/or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us. in addition, since numerous aspects of our business are subject to regulation, legislative and other changes affecting the regulatory environment for our business may have, over time, the effect of supporting or burdening some aspects of the financial services industry more than others. this can affect our competitive position within the life insurance industry and within the broader financial services industry. see business regulation, regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth, and regulatory and legal risks changes in u.s. federal and state securities laws and regulations, and state insurance regulations regarding suitability of annuity product sales, may affect our operations and our profitability. if our business does not perform well, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our goodwill or other long-lived assets or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition goodwill is the excess of cost over the estimated fair value of net assets acquired. goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate, indicate that the fair value of the reporting unit may be less than the carrying value of that reporting unit. we perform our annual goodwill impairment testing during the third quarter of each year based upon data as of the close of the second quarter. goodwill associated with a business acquisition is not tested for impairment during the year the business is acquired unless there is a significant identified impairment event. impairment testing is performed using the fair value approach, which requires the use of estimates and judgment, at the reporting unit level. a reporting unit is the operating segment or a business one level below the operating segment under certain circumstances. the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the business, which may be adversely impacted by prolonged market declines. if it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, we must write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. such writedowns could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates goodwill and note 11 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 53 table of contents long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate, also require impairment testing. this testing is done to determine whether changes in circumstances indicate that we will be unable to recover the carrying amount of the asset group. such writedowns could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities. deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. factors in management's determination include the performance of the business including the ability to generate future taxable income. if, based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. in addition, changes in the corporate tax rates could affect the value of our deferred tax assets and may require a write-off of some of those assets. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates income taxes. if our business does not perform well or if actual experience versus estimates used in valuing and amortizing dac, deferred sales inducements ( dsi ) and voba vary significantly, we may be required to accelerate the amortization and/or impair the dac, dsi and voba which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition we incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal insurance business. costs that are related directly to the successful acquisition of new and renewal insurance business are deferred and referred to as dac. bonus amounts credited to certain policyholders, either immediately upon receiving a deposit or as excess interest credits for a period of time, are deferred and referred to as dsi. the recovery of dac and dsi is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. the amount of future profit or margin is dependent principally on investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest crediting rates, dividends paid to policyholders, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties and certain economic variables, such as inflation. of these factors, we anticipate that investment returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of such costs. the aforementioned factors enter into management's estimates of gross profits or margins, which generally are used to amortize such costs. if actual gross profits or margins are less than originally expected, then the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to income. significant or sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of dac and dsi related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends impact of a sustained low interest rate environment for a discussion of how significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period. voba represents the excess of book value over the estimated fair value of acquired insurance, annuity, and investment-type contracts in-force at the acquisition date. the estimated fair value of the acquired liabilities is based on actuarially determined projections, by each block of business, of future policy and contract charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account performance, surrenders, operating expenses, investment returns, nonperformance risk adjustment and other factors. in the event actual experience on the purchased business varies from these projections, we will be required to revise our estimates, which results in changes to the amounts expensed in the reporting period in which the revisions are made and also could result in a charge to income. in addition, voba is amortized similarly to dac and dsi. accordingly, an acceleration of the amortization of voba would occur if actual gross profits or margins are less than originally expected. in such a case, the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period in which the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to net income. furthermore, significant or sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of the voba related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates deferred policy acquisition costs and value of business acquired and note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further consideration of dac and voba. guarantees within certain of our products may decrease our earnings, increase the volatility of our results, result in higher risk management costs and expose us to increased counterparty risk certain of our variable annuity products include guaranteed benefits, including guaranteed minimum death benefits ( gmdbs ), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits ( gmwbs ), guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits ( gmabs ), and guaranteed minimum income benefits ( gmibs ). these guarantees are designed to protect policyholders against significant downturns in equity markets and interest rates. any such periods of significant and sustained downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, or reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of our liabilities associated with those products. an increase in these liabilities would result in a decrease in our net income. 54 table of contents we use hedging and risk management strategies to mitigate the liability exposure and the volatility of net income associated with these liabilities. these strategies involve the use of reinsurance and derivatives, which may not be completely effective. for example, in the event that reinsurers, derivative counterparties or central clearinghouses are unable or unwilling to pay, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefits. see risks related to our business if the counterparties to our reinsurance or indemnification arrangements or to the derivatives we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, hedging instruments may not effectively offset the costs of guarantees or may otherwise be insufficient in relation to our obligations. furthermore, we are subject to the risk that changes in policyholder behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events, produce economic losses not addressed by the risk management techniques employed. these, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including net income, financial condition or liquidity. see management's discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition policyholder liabilities variable annuity guarantees and note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further consideration of the risks associated with guaranteed benefits. acquisition-related risks we could face difficulties, unforeseen liabilities, asset impairments or rating actions arising from business acquisitions or integrating and managing growth of such businesses, dispositions of businesses, or legal entity reorganizations we have engaged in dispositions and acquisitions of businesses in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future. such activity exposes us to a number of risks arising from (i) potential difficulties achieving projected financial results including the costs and benefits of integration; (ii) unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments; (iii) the scope and duration of rights to indemnification for losses; (iv) the use of capital which could be used for other purposes; (v) rating agency reactions; (vi) regulatory requirements that could impact our operations or capital requirements; (vii) changes in statutory or u.s. gaap accounting principles, practices or policies; and (viii) certain other risks specifically arising from joint venture or legal entity reorganization activities. the valuation and structure for any transaction reflect our financial projections and other qualitative and quantitative factors. every transaction exposes us to the risk that actual results may materially differ from what we have projected. factors that can cause our financial projections to vary materially from ultimate experience include, but are not limited to, macroeconomic, business growth, demographic, policyholder behavior, regulatory and political conditions. in addition, our ability to achieve certain financial benefits we anticipate from any acquisitions of businesses will depend in part upon our ability to successfully integrate such businesses in an efficient and effective manner. we may not be able to integrate such businesses smoothly or successfully, and the process may take longer than expected. the integration of operations and differences in operational culture may require the dedication of significant management resources, which may distract management's attention from day-to-day business. if we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of such acquired businesses, we may be unable to realize the benefits we expect to achieve as a result of such acquisitions and our business and results of operations may be less than expected. 55 table of contents the success with which we are able to integrate acquired operations will depend on our ability to manage a variety of issues, including the following: loss of key personnel or higher than expected employee attrition rates could adversely affect the performance of the acquired business and our ability to integrate it successfully. customers of the acquired business may reduce, delay or defer decisions concerning their use of its products and services as a result of the acquisition or uncertainty related to the consummation of the acquisition, including, for example, potential unfamiliarity with the metlife brand in regions where we did not have a market presence prior to the acquisition. if the acquired business relies upon independent distributors to distribute its products, these distributors may not continue to generate the same volume of business for us after the acquisition. independent distributors may reexamine the scope of their relationship with the acquired business or us as a result of the acquisition and decide to curtail or eliminate distribution of our products. if the acquired business relies on continued distribution access with another party, we are also exposed to the risk of loss of exclusivity or change in access due to regulatory changes. integrating acquired operations with our existing operations may require us to coordinate geographically separated organizations, address possible differences in corporate culture and management philosophies, merge financial processes and risk and compliance procedures, combine separate information technology platforms and integrate operations that were previously closely tied to the former parent of the acquired business or other service providers. in cases where we or an acquired business operates in certain markets through joint ventures, the acquisition may affect the continued success and prospects of the joint venture. our ability to exercise management control or influence over these joint venture operations and our investment in them will depend on the continued cooperation between the joint venture participants and on the terms of the joint venture agreements, which allocate control among the joint venture participants. we may face financial or other exposure in the event that any of these joint venture partners fail to meet their respective obligations under the joint venture, encounter financial difficulty or elect to alter, modify or terminate the relationship. we may incur significant costs in connection with any acquisition and the related integration. the costs and liabilities actually incurred in connection with an acquisition and subsequent integration process may exceed those anticipated. there could be unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments, including goodwill impairments, which arise in connection with the businesses that we may sell or the businesses that we may acquire in the future. in addition, there may be liabilities or asset impairments that we fail, or are unable, to discover in the course of performing acquisition-related due diligence investigations. furthermore, even for obligations and liabilities that we do discover during the due diligence process, neither the valuation adjustment nor the contractual protections we negotiate may be sufficient to fully protect us from losses. although we generally have rights to indemnification for certain losses, our rights are limited by survival periods for bringing claims and limitations on the nature and amount of losses we may recover, and we cannot be certain that indemnification will be, among other things, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any loss we may suffer. for example, we are indemnified under the stock purchase agreement dated as of march 7, 2010, as amended, by and among metlife, inc., american international group, inc. ( aig ) and alico holdings, llc (now am holdings, llc ( am holdings )), a subsidiary of aig, for various tax matters, including u.s. federal income taxes attributable to periods during which the alico business was included in aig's consolidated federal income tax return. it is possible, however, that any such indemnification may not be fully collectible. likewise, when we dispose of subsidiaries or operations, we may remain liable to the acquiror or to third parties for certain losses or costs arising from the divested business. we may also incur a loss on the disposition. the use of our own funds as consideration in any acquisition would consume capital resources, which could affect our capital plan and render those funds unavailable for other corporate purposes. we also may not be able to raise sufficient funds to consummate an acquisition if, for example, we are unable to sell our securities or close related bridge credit facilities. moreover, as a result of uncertainty and risks associated with potential acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, rating agencies may take certain actions with respect to the ratings assigned to metlife, inc. and/or its subsidiaries. there could also be changes in regulatory requirements that could impact our operations or capital requirements in unanticipated ways. changes in statutory or u.s. gaap accounting principles, practices or policies could also create unforeseen difficulties. 56 table of contents we may also participate in joint ventures with other companies or government enterprises in various international markets, including joint ventures where we may have a lesser degree of control over the business operations, which may expose us to additional operational, financial, legal or compliance risks. we may be dependent on a joint venture counterparty for capital, product distribution, local market knowledge, or other resources. limits on our ownership levels under local laws or regulations may increase our dependence on joint venture counterparties. a joint venture may require an investment of considerable management, financial and operational resources to establish sufficient infrastructure such as underwriting, actuarial, risk management, compliance or other processes. if we are unable to effectively cooperate with joint venture counterparties, or any joint venture counterparty fails to meets its obligations under the joint venture arrangement, encounters financial difficulty, or elects to alter, modify or terminate the relationship, we may be unable to achieve our objectives and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. in addition, we may reorganize or consolidate the legal entities through which we conduct business. for example, in november 2014, the company completed the mergers. see management's discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition executive summary other key information significant events. the implementation of legal entity reorganizations is a complex undertaking and involves a number of risks similar to those that are present in the case of an acquisition. many aspects of these transactions are subject to regulatory approvals from a number of different jurisdictions. we may not obtain needed regulatory approvals in the timeframe anticipated or at all, which could reduce or prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of these transactions. these transactions or the related regulatory approvals may entail modifications of certain aspects of our operations, the composition of certain of our investment portfolios, and/or the cost of our derivatives hedging activities, which could result in additional costs or reduce net investment income. we may also incur additional expenses in connection with planning and effectuating these mergers and related transactions. we may encounter delays or unforeseen problems in making changes to our information technology systems that are needed to reflect the mergers. loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to carry out these transactions. in addition, these transactions may absorb significant attention from our management, which could reduce management's focus on other aspects of our business. any of these risks, if realized, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. capital-related risks regulatory restrictions and uncertainty and restrictions under the terms of certain of our securities may prevent us from repurchasing our stock and paying dividends at the level we wish the declaration and payment of dividends is subject to the discretion of our board of directors, and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements, future prospects, regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by metlife, inc.'s insurance subsidiaries and other factors deemed relevant by the board. there is no requirement or assurance that we will declare and pay any dividends. in addition, as a result of metlife, inc.'s designation as a non-bank sifi, we may be subject to restrictions arising from federal reserve regulation, including capital planning and stress testing requirements. the capital requirements that will apply to non-bank sifis are unclear. see regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. in addition, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and repurchase our common stock is subject to restrictions arising from the terms of our preferred stock, junior subordinated debentures and trust securities, so called dividend stopper provisions, in situations where we may be experiencing financial stress. for purposes of this discussion, junior subordinated debentures are deemed to include metlife's fixed-to-floating exchangeable surplus trust securities, which are exchangeable for junior subordinated debentures, and which contain terms with the same substantive effects in this discussion as the terms of metlife, inc.'s junior subordinated debentures. in addition, our ability to pay dividends on our preferred stock and interest on our junior subordinated debentures are also restricted by the terms of those securities. regulatory restrictions the federal reserve board is required under dodd-frank to adopt enhanced prudential standards, including heightened capital requirements and stress testing requirements, for non-bank sifis. however, it has not yet done so, but it has indicated that it intends to apply enhanced prudential standards to non-bank sifis by rule or order. the manner in which these proposed standards might apply to metlife, inc., as a non-bank sifi, remains unclear. see business regulation u.s. regulation regulation as a non-bank sifi. it is possible that these requirements, or any others adopted, could restrict our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our common stock. in addition, metlife, inc. may not be able to pay dividends if it does not receive sufficient funds from its operating subsidiaries, which are themselves subject to separate regulatory restrictions on their ability to pay dividends. see capital-related risks as a holding company, metlife, inc. depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to transfer funds to it to meet its obligations and pay dividends. 57 table of contents dividend stopper provisions in our preferred stock and junior subordinated debentures certain terms of our preferred stock and our junior subordinated debentures may prevent us from purchasing our common stock or paying dividends on our common stock in certain circumstances. moreover, metlife, inc. is a party to certain replacement capital covenants which limit its ability to eliminate these restrictions through the repayment, redemption or purchase of preferred stock or junior subordinated debentures by requiring metlife, subject to certain limitations, to receive cash proceeds during a specified period from the sale of specified replacement securities prior to any repayment, redemption or purchase. see note 14 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for a description of such covenants in effect with respect to junior subordinated debentures and note 16 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for a description of such restrictions with respect to the preferred stock. under our preferred stock and junior subordinated debentures, if we have not paid the full dividends on our preferred stock for a dividend period, we may not repurchase or pay dividends on our common stock for that period. if we have not paid in full the accrued interest through the most recent interest payment date on our junior subordinated debentures, we may not repurchase or pay dividends on our common stock or other capital stock (including the preferred stock), subject to certain exceptions. trigger events for the restrictions on the payment of dividends on our preferred stock and restrictions on the payment of interest on our junior subordinated debentures in addition, the preferred stock and the junior subordinated debentures contain provisions that would automatically suspend the payment of preferred stock dividends and junior subordinated debenture interest payments if metlife, inc. fails to meet certain tests ( trigger events ) at specified times, although in such cases metlife would be permitted to make the payments if it were able to utilize the alternative payment mechanism described below. as a result of the suspension of these payments, the dividend stopper provisions would come into effect. a trigger event would occur if the rbc ratio of metlife's largest u.s. insurance subsidiaries in the aggregate (as defined in the applicable instrument) were to be less than 175% of the company action level based on the subsidiaries' prior year annual financial statements filed (generally around march 1) with state insurance commissioners. a trigger event would also occur if, at the end of a quarter, consolidated gaap net income for the four-quarter period ending two quarters before such quarter-end is zero or less and adjusted shareholders' equity (as defined in the applicable instrument), as of such quarter-end and the end of the quarter two quarters before such quarter-end, declined by 10% or more from its level 10 quarters before such quarter-end. the trigger event would continue until there is no longer a trigger event at the specified time, and adjusted shareholders' equity is no longer 10% or more below its level at the beginning of each measurement period described above that is associated with a trigger event. in order to use the alternative payment mechanism referred to above to declare and pay preferred stock dividends or interest on junior subordinated debentures, metlife must sell common stock during the 90 days preceding the dividend declaration date or sell common stock or certain kinds of warrants to purchase common stock during the 180 days prior to the interest payment date, make dividend or interest payments not in excess of the net proceeds of these sales, and satisfy other specified conditions. dividends on our preferred stock are subject to declaration by our board of directors in addition to the provisions described above that prevent us from declaring and paying dividends on our preferred stock, dividends on our preferred stock are subject to declaration each quarter by our board of directors. if our board of directors does not declare dividends on the preferred stock for any quarterly dividend period, the dividend stopper provisions in our preferred stock would prevent us from repurchasing or paying dividends on our common stock for that period. optional deferral of interest on the junior subordinated debentures the junior subordinated debentures provide that metlife may, at its option and provided that certain conditions are met, defer payment of interest without giving rise to an event of default for periods of up to 10 years (although after five years metlife, inc. would be obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to sell equity securities to raise proceeds to pay the interest), with no limitation on the number of deferral periods that metlife, inc. may begin so long as all accrued and unpaid interest is paid with respect to prior deferral periods. if metlife, inc. were to elect to defer payments of interest, the dividend stopper provisions in the junior subordinated debentures would thus prevent metlife, inc. from repurchasing or paying dividends on its common stock or other capital stock (including the preferred stock) during the period of deferral, subject to exceptions. see note 16 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about these restrictions. 58 table of contents as a holding company, metlife, inc. depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to transfer funds to it to meet its obligations and pay dividends metlife, inc. is a holding company for its insurance and financial subsidiaries and does not have any significant operations of its own. dividends from its subsidiaries and permitted payments to it under its tax sharing agreement with its subsidiaries are its principal sources of cash to meet its obligations and to pay preferred and common stock dividends. if the cash metlife, inc. receives from its subsidiaries is insufficient for it to fund its debt service and other holding company obligations, metlife, inc. may be required to raise cash through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of additional equity or the sale of assets. the payment of dividends and other distributions to metlife, inc. by its u.s. insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. in general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits require insurance regulatory approval. in addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of dividends or other payments by its insurance subsidiaries to metlife, inc. if they determine that the payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. the payment of dividends and other distributions by insurance companies is also influenced by business conditions and rating agency considerations. see business regulation u.s. regulation insurance regulation and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources metlife, inc. liquidity and capital sources dividends from subsidiaries. see also regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or advances by our foreign subsidiaries and branches to metlife, inc. could be subject to taxation or other restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdiction in which such foreign subsidiaries operate. see business regulation international regulation and risks related to our business our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability. operational risks our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business we have devoted significant resources to develop and periodically update our risk management policies and procedures to reflect ongoing review of our risks and expect to continue to do so in the future. nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not be comprehensive and may not identify every risk to which we are exposed. many of our methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. as a result, these methods may not fully predict future exposures, which can be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate. other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. this information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. in addition, more extensive and perhaps different risk management policies and procedures might have to be implemented under pending regulations. see business regulation u.s. regulation regulation as a non-bank sifi and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio and the level of claim losses we incur the continued threat of terrorism, both within the u.s. and abroad, ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility in global financial markets and result in loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. the value of assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the credit and equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. companies in which we maintain investments may suffer losses as a result of financial, commercial or economic disruptions and such disruptions might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or principal on their securities or mortgage loans. terrorist actions also could disrupt our operations centers in the u.s. or abroad and result in higher than anticipated claims under our insurance policies. see economic environment and capital markets-related risks if difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally persist, they may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. 59 table of contents the failure in cyber- or other information security systems, as well as the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning could result in a loss or disclosure of confidential information, damage to our reputation and impairment of our ability to conduct business effectively our business is highly dependent upon the effective operation of our computer systems. we rely on these systems throughout our business for a variety of functions, including processing claims and applications, providing information to customers and distributors, performing actuarial analyses and maintaining financial records. we also retain confidential and proprietary information on our computer systems and we rely on sophisticated technologies to maintain the security of that information. our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access, cyberattacks or other computer-related penetrations. while, to date, metlife has not experienced a material breach of cybersecurity, administrative and technical controls and other preventive actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber-incidents and protect our information technology may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems. in the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, epidemic, industrial accident, blackout, computer virus, terrorist attack, cyberattack or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial position, particularly if those problems affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data. in addition, in the event that a significant number of our managers were unavailable following a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. these interruptions also may interfere with our suppliers' ability to provide goods and services and our employees' ability to perform their job responsibilities. the failure of our computer systems and/or our disaster recovery plans for any reason could cause significant interruptions in our operations and result in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to our customers. such a failure could harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions and legal claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. although we conduct due diligence, negotiate contractual provisions and, in many cases, conduct periodic reviews of our vendors, distributors, and other third-parties that provide operational or information technology services to us to confirm compliance with metlife's information security standards, the failure of such third-parties' computer systems and/or their disaster recovery plans for any reason might cause significant interruptions in our operations and result in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to our customers. such a failure could harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions and legal claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. while we maintain cyber liability insurance that provides both third-party liability and first party liability coverages, our insurance may not be sufficient to protect us against all losses. metlife, inc. and its subsidiaries maintain a primary cybersecurity and privacy liability insurance policy with a limit of $15 million, and have additional coverage for cybersecurity and privacy liability available under blended professional liability excess coverage policies with a total limit of $210 million. our associates may take excessive risks which could negatively affect our financial condition and business as an insurance enterprise, we are in the business of accepting certain risks. the associates who conduct our business, including executive officers and other members of management, sales managers, investment professionals, product managers, sales agents, and other associates, do so in part by making decisions and choices that involve exposing us to risk. these include decisions such as setting underwriting guidelines and standards, product design and pricing, determining what assets to purchase for investment and when to sell them, which business opportunities to pursue, and other decisions. we endeavor, in the design and implementation of our compensation programs and practices, to avoid giving our associates incentives to take excessive risks; however, associates may take such risks regardless of the structure of our compensation programs and practices. similarly, although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor associates' business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks, and to prevent employee misconduct, these controls and procedures may not be effective. if our associates take excessive risks, the impact of those risks could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and business operations. 60 table of contents general risks metlife, inc.'s board of directors may influence the outcome of stockholder votes on many matters due to the voting provisions of the metlife policyholder trust under the plan, we established the metlife policyholder trust to hold the shares of metlife, inc. common stock allocated to eligible policyholders not receiving cash or policy credits under the plan. as of february 23, 2015, the trust held 179,156,108 shares, or 16.0%, of the outstanding shares of metlife, inc. common stock. because of voting provisions of the trust and the number of shares held by it, the trust may affect the outcome of matters brought to a stockholder vote. except on votes regarding certain fundamental corporate actions described below, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held in the trust in accordance with the recommendations given by metlife, inc.'s board of directors to its stockholders or, if the board gives no such recommendations, as directed by the board. as a result of the voting provisions of the trust, the board of directors may be able to influence the outcome of votes on matters submitted to a vote of stockholders, excluding certain fundamental corporate actions, so long as the trust holds a substantial number of shares of common stock. if the vote relates to fundamental corporate actions specified in the trust, the trustee will solicit instructions from the trust beneficiaries and vote all shares held in the trust in proportion to the instructions it receives. these actions include: an election or removal of directors in which a stockholder has properly nominated one or more candidates in opposition to a nominee or nominees of metlife, inc.'s board of directors or a vote on a stockholder's proposal to oppose a board nominee for director, remove a director for cause or fill a vacancy caused by the removal of a director by stockholders, subject to certain conditions; a merger or consolidation, a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the assets, or a recapitalization or dissolution, of metlife, inc., in each case requiring a vote of stockholders under applicable delaware law; any transaction that would result in an exchange or conversion of shares of common stock held by the trust for cash, securities or other property; and any proposal requiring metlife, inc.'s board of directors to amend or redeem the rights under metlife, inc.'s stockholder rights plan, other than a proposal with respect to which we have received advice of nationally-recognized legal counsel to the effect that the proposal is not a proper subject for stockholder action under delaware law. metlife, inc. does not currently have a stockholder rights plan. if a vote concerns any of these fundamental corporate actions, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held by the trust in proportion to the instructions it received, which will give disproportionate weight to the instructions actually given by trust beneficiaries. the metlife policyholder trust agreement provides that we may terminate the trust once the percentage of outstanding shares held in the trust falls to 25%. the winding up of the trust must commence 90 days after we provide the trustee with notice that the percentage of outstanding shares held in the trust is 10% or less. in connection with any termination of the trust, all of the shares of common stock then held in the trust will need to be distributed to the respective trust beneficiaries, unless we offer to purchase all or a portion of such trust shares. in connection with the termination of the trust and such a distribution, we may incur costs related to regulatory filings, mailings to trust beneficiaries or others, and costs related to an increase in the number of shareholders, which may include increased mailing and proxy solicitation expenses. after such a distribution, the addition of the respective trust beneficiaries to our shareholder base with full voting rights may have a significant impact on matters brought to a stockholder vote and other aspects of our corporate governance. changes in accounting standards issued by the financial accounting standards board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements our financial statements are subject to the application of gaap, which is periodically revised and/or expanded. accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the financial accounting standards board (the fasb ). the impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in our reports filed with the sec. see note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. an assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and official positions of the fasb are determined only after extensive due process and deliberations. therefore, the effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. the required adoption of future accounting standards could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, including on our net income. 61 table of contents changes in our assumptions regarding the discount rate, expected rate of return, mortality rates and expected increase in compensation used for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability we determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on our best estimates of future plan experience. these assumptions are reviewed regularly and include discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets, mortality rates, expected increases in compensation levels and expected medical inflation. changes in these assumptions may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. see note 18 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for details on how changes in these assumptions would affect plan costs. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims we rely on a combination of contractual rights with third parties and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. although we endeavor to protect our rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. we may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. this would represent a diversion of resources that may be significant and our efforts may not prove successful. the inability to secure or protect our intellectual property assets could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete with other insurers and financial institutions. in addition, we may be subject to claims by third parties for (i) patent, trademark or copyright infringement, (ii) breach of patent, trademark or copyright license usage rights, or (iii) misappropriation of trade secrets. any such claims or resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability for damages. if we were found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party patent or other intellectual property right, we could in some circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or from utilizing and benefiting from certain patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties or implement a costly alternative. any of these scenarios could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may be unable to attract and retain sales representatives for our products we must attract and retain productive sales representatives to sell our insurance, annuities and investment products. insurers compete for sales representatives with demonstrated ability. in addition, there is competition for representatives with other types of financial services firms, such as independent broker-dealers. we compete with other financial services companies for sales representatives primarily on the basis of product features, support services, compensation and financial position. we continue to undertake several initiatives to enhance the efficiency and production of our existing sales force. these initiatives may not succeed in attracting and retaining new agents. sales of individual insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining highly qualified and productive agents. see business competition. state laws, federal laws, our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws may delay, deter or prevent takeovers and business combinations that stockholders might consider in their best interests state laws, federal laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. for instance, such restrictions may prevent stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of metlife, inc.'s common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of metlife, inc.'s common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. 62 table of contents any person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would face various regulatory obstacles, including: applicable state insurance laws and regulations may delay or impede a business combination involving us by prohibiting an entity from acquiring control (generally presumed to exist at direct or indirect ownership of 10% or more of voting stock) of an insurance company domiciled in the united states without the prior approval of the domestic insurance regulator. many foreign jurisdictions in which we operate have similar regulatory approval requirements. dodd-frank provisions that restrict or impede consolidations, mergers and acquisitions by systemically significant firms. see business regulation u.s. regulation regulation as a non-bank sifi enhanced prudential standards for non-bank sifis. provisions of the investment company act that require approval by the contract owners of our variable contracts in order to effectuate a change of control of any affiliated investment adviser to a mutual fund underlying our variable contracts. finra approval requirements for a change of control of any finra registered broker-dealer that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of metlife, inc. provisions of the delaware general corporation law may affect the ability of an interested stockholder (the owner of 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation) to engage in certain business combinations for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. in addition, metlife, inc.'s certificate of incorporation and by-laws also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests or may otherwise adversely affect prevailing market prices for metlife, inc.'s common stock. these provisions include: a prohibition on the calling of special meetings by stockholders; and advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates to the board of directors and stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings. metlife, inc.'s certificate of incorporation and by-laws also contain supermajority voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation and shareholder amendment of the by-laws. the board of directors has proposed that shareholders change these voting requirements to a majority voting standard, and anticipates that shareholders will vote on these changes at metlife, inc.'s 2015 annual shareholder meeting. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 168 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management we have developed an integrated process for managing risk, which we conduct through multiple board and senior management committees (financial and non-financial) within the grm, alm unit, treasury department and investments department. the risk committee structure is designed to provide a consolidated enterprise-wide assessment and management of risk. the erc is responsible for reviewing all material risks to the enterprise and deciding on actions, if necessary, in the event risks exceed desired tolerances, taking into consideration industry best practices and the current environment to resolve or mitigate those risks. additional committees at the metlife, inc. and subsidiary insurance company level that manage capital and risk positions, approve alm strategies and establish corporate business standards, report to the erc. global risk management independent from the lines of business, the centralized grm, led by the cro collaborates and coordinates across all committees to ensure that all material risks are properly identified, measured, aggregated and reported across the company. the cro reports to the ceo and is primarily responsible for maintaining and communicating the company's enterprise risk policies and for monitoring and analyzing all material risks. grm considers and monitors a full range of risks against the company's solvency, liquidity, earnings, business operations and reputation. grm's primary responsibilities consist of: implementing a corporate risk framework, which outlines our enterprise approach for managing risk; developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring, monitoring and controlling those risks identified in the corporate risk framework; establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels; deploying capital on an economic basis; recommending capital allocations on an economic capital basis; and reporting to (i) the finance and risk committee of metlife, inc.'s board of directors; (ii) the investment committee of metlife, inc.'s board of directors; and (iii) the financial and non-financial senior management committees on various aspects of risk. asset/liability management we actively manage our assets using an approach that balances quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity, concentration and investment return. the goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income tax, risk-adjusted investment income and risk-adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are reasonably managed on a cash flow and duration basis. the alm process is the shared responsibility of the alm unit, grm, the portfolio management unit, and the senior members of the business segments and is governed by the alm committees. the alm committees' duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios, establishing investment guidelines and limits and providing oversight of the alm process on a periodic basis. the directives of the alm committees are carried out and monitored through alm working groups which are set up to manage by product type. in addition, our alm steering committee oversees the activities of the underlying alm committees. the alm steering committee reports to the erc. we establish target asset portfolios for each major insurance product, which represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund our liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. these strategies are monitored through regular review of portfolio metrics, such as effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality by the alm working groups. market risk exposures we regularly analyze our exposure to interest rate, equity market price and foreign currency exchange rate risks. as a result of that analysis, we have determined that the estimated fair values of certain assets and liabilities are materially exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and changes in the equity markets. we have exposure to market risk through our insurance operations and investment activities. for purposes of this disclosure, market risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets. 168 table of contents interest rates our exposure to interest rate changes results most significantly from our holdings of fixed maturity securities, as well as our interest rate sensitive liabilities. the fixed maturity securities include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities and abs, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium- and long-term interest rates. the interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include debt, pabs related to certain investment type contracts, and net embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits which have the same type of interest rate exposure (medium- and long-term interest rates) as fixed maturity securities. we employ product design, pricing and alm strategies to reduce the potential effects of interest rate movements. product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products and the ability to reset crediting rates for certain products. alm strategies include the use of derivatives and duration mismatch limits. see risk factors economic environment and capital markets-related risks we are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risks which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and may cause our net investment income to vary from period to period. foreign currency exchange rates our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar results from our holdings in non-u.s. dollar denominated fixed maturity and equity securities, mortgage loans, and certain liabilities, as well as through our investments in foreign subsidiaries. the principal currencies that create foreign currency exchange rate risk in our investment portfolios and liabilities are the euro, the japanese yen and the british pound. selectively, we use u.s. dollar assets to support certain long duration foreign currency liabilities. through our investments in foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures, we are primarily exposed to the japanese yen, the euro, the polish zloty, the australian dollar, the mexican peso, the chilean peso and the korean won. in addition to hedging with foreign currency swaps, forwards and options, local surplus in some countries is held entirely or in part in u.s. dollar assets which further minimizes exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. we have matched much of our foreign currency liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency assets, thereby reducing our risk to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. see risk factors risks related to our business fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our profitability. equity market along with investments in equity securities, we have exposure to equity market risk through certain liabilities that involve long-term guarantees on equity performance such as net embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits and certain pabs. we manage this risk on an integrated basis with other risks through our alm strategies including the dynamic hedging of certain variable annuity guarantee benefits, as well as reinsurance, in order to limit losses, minimize exposure to large risks, and provide additional capacity for future growth. we also manage equity market risk exposure in our investment portfolio through the use of derivatives. equity exposures associated with other limited partnership interests are excluded from this discussion as they are not considered financial instruments under gaap. management of market risk exposures we use a variety of strategies to manage interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market risk, including the use of derivatives. interest rate risk management to manage interest rate risk, we analyze interest rate risk using various models, including multi-scenario cash flow projection models that forecast cash flows of the liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivatives. these projections involve evaluating the potential gain or loss on most of our in-force business under various increasing and decreasing interest rate environments. the department of financial services regulations require that we perform some of these analyses annually as part of our review of the sufficiency of our regulatory reserves. for several of our legal entities, we maintain segmented operating and surplus asset portfolios for the purpose of alm and the allocation of investment income to product lines. for each segment, invested assets greater than or equal to the gaap liabilities and any non-invested assets allocated to the segment are maintained, with any excess allocated to corporate &amp; other. the business segments may reflect differences in legal entity, statutory line of business and any product market characteristic which may drive a distinct investment strategy with respect to duration, liquidity or credit quality of the invested assets. certain smaller entities make use of unsegmented general accounts for which the investment strategy reflects the aggregate characteristics of liabilities in those entities. we measure relative sensitivities of the value of our assets and liabilities to changes in key assumptions utilizing internal models. these models reflect specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting rates. in addition, these models include asset cash flow projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage loan prepayments and defaults. 169 table of contents common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, are also used to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and liability values to changes in interest rates. in computing the duration of liabilities, consideration is given to all policyholder guarantees and to how we intend to set indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or dividends. each asset portfolio has a duration target based on the liability duration and the investment objectives of that portfolio. where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity of available assets, as is the case with certain retirement and group products, we may support such liabilities with equity investments, derivatives or interest rate curve mismatch strategies. foreign currency exchange rate risk management we assume foreign currency exchange rate risk primarily in three ways: investments in foreign subsidiaries, purchases of foreign currency denominated investments and the sale of certain insurance products. the grm's foreign exchange committee, in coordination with the treasury department, is responsible for managing our exposure to investments in foreign subsidiaries. exposure limits are established by the treasury department and monitored by grm. the investments department manages such exposure. the investments department is responsible for managing the exposure to foreign currency denominated investments. exposure limits to unhedged foreign currency investments are incorporated into the standing authorizations granted to management by the board of directors and are reported to the board of directors on a periodic basis. management of each of the company's segments, with oversight from the foreign exchange committee, is responsible for establishing limits and managing any foreign currency exchange rate exposure caused by the sale or issuance of insurance products. we use foreign currency swaps, forwards and options to mitigate the liability exposure, risk of loss and financial statement volatility associated with our investments in foreign subsidiaries, foreign currency denominated fixed income investments and the sale of certain insurance products. equity market risk management the issuance of variable annuities exposes us to market risk. this risk is managed by our alm unit in partnership with the investments department. equity market risk is also assumed through our investment in equity securities and is managed by our investments department. we use derivatives to mitigate our equity exposure both in certain liability guarantees such as variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefit and equity securities. these derivatives include exchange-traded equity futures, equity index options contracts and equity variance swaps. we also employ reinsurance to manage these exposures. hedging activities we use derivative contracts primarily to hedge a wide range of risks including interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and equity market risk. derivative hedges are designed to reduce risk on an economic basis while considering their impact on accounting results and gaap and statutory capital. our derivative hedge programs vary depending on the type of risk being hedged. some hedge programs are asset or liability specific while others are portfolio hedges that reduce risk related to a group of liabilities or assets. our use of derivatives by major hedge programs is as follows: risks related to living guarantee benefits we use a wide range of derivative contracts to mitigate the risk associated with variable annuity living guarantee benefits. these derivatives include equity and interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, currency futures/forwards, equity indexed options and interest rate option contracts and equity variance swaps. minimum interest rate guarantees for certain liability contracts, we provide the contractholder a guaranteed minimum interest rate. these contracts include certain fixed annuities and other insurance liabilities. we purchase interest rate floors to reduce risk associated with these liability guarantees. reinvestment risk in long duration liability contracts derivatives are used to hedge interest rate risk related to certain long duration liability contracts. hedges include interest rate swaps and swaptions. foreign currency exchange rate risk we use currency swaps, forwards and options to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risk. these hedges primarily swap foreign currency denominated bonds, investments in foreign subsidiaries or equity market exposures to u.s. dollars. general alm hedging strategies in the ordinary course of managing our asset/liability risks, we use interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, interest rate floors and inflation swaps. these hedges are designed to reduce interest rate risk or inflation risk related to the existing assets or liabilities or related to expected future cash flows. 170 table of contents risk measurement: sensitivity analysis we measure market risk related to our market sensitive assets and liabilities based on changes in interest rates, equity market prices and foreign currency exchange rates utilizing a sensitivity analysis. this analysis estimates the potential changes in estimated fair value based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, equity market prices and foreign currency exchange rates. we believe that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the near term. in performing the analysis summarized below, we used market rates at december 31, 2014 . the sensitivity analysis separately calculates each of our market risk exposures (interest rate, equity market and foreign currency exchange rate) relating to our trading and non-trading assets and liabilities. we modeled the impact of changes in market rates a nd prices on the estimated fair values of our market sensitive assets and liabilities as follows: the net present values of our interest rate sensitive exposures resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates; the u.s. dollar equivalent estimated fair values of our foreign currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in foreign currency exchange rates; and the estimated fair value of our equity positions due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity market prices. the sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as predictive of our future financial performance. we cannot ensure that our actual losses in any particular period will not exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. limitations related to this sensitivity analysis include: the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgage loans; for the derivatives that qualify as hedges, the impact on reported earnings may be materially different from the change in market values; the analysis excludes liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts and real estate holdings; and the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains unchanged throughout the period. accordingly, we use such models as tools and not as substitutes for the experience and judgment of our management. based on our analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and prices, we have determined that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the estimated fair value of certain assets and liabilities from interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market exposures. the table below illustrates the potential loss in estimated fair value for each market risk exposure of our market sensitive assets and liabilities at: december 31, 2014 (in millions) non-trading: interest rate risk $ 5,231 foreign currency exchange rate risk $ 5,756 equity market risk $ 78 trading: interest rate risk $ 3 foreign currency exchange rate risk $ 171 table of contents the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our trading and non-trading interest sensitive financial instruments by type of asset or liability at: december 31, 2014 notional amount estimated fair value (1) assuming a 10% increase in the yield curve (in millions) assets fixed maturity securities $ 365,425 $ (5,223 ) equity securities $ 3,631 fair value option and trading securities: actively traded securities $ 654 (7 ) fair value option general account securities 704 (1 ) total fair value option and trading securities $ 1,358 (8 ) mortgage loans $ 62,554 (369 ) policy loans $ 13,934 (145 ) short-term investments $ 8,621 (1 ) other invested assets $ 826 cash and cash equivalents $ 10,808 accrued investment income $ 4,120 premiums, reinsurance and other receivables $ 3,157 (156 ) other assets $ 243 (4 ) net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) $ 377 (23 ) total assets $ (5,929 ) liabilities (3) policyholder account balances $ 133,387 $ 587 payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions $ 35,326 short-term debt $ 100 long-term debt $ 18,357 316 collateral financing arrangements $ 3,961 junior subordinated debt securities $ 4,173 103 other liabilities: trading liabilities $ 239 4 other $ 2,546 127 net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) $ (46 ) 467 total liabilities $ 1,604 derivative instruments interest rate swaps $ 101,870 $ 5,090 $ (615 ) interest rate floors $ 55,645 $ 241 (25 ) interest rate caps $ 49,128 $ 144 41 interest rate futures $ 2,707 $ (5 ) 4 interest rate options $ 48,078 $ 1,166 (217 ) interest rate forwards $ 225 $ 63 (15 ) synthetic gics $ 4,298 $ foreign currency swaps $ 32,074 $ (340 ) (21 ) foreign currency forwards $ 19,638 $ (671 ) (6 ) currency futures $ 522 $ 2 currency options $ 14,743 $ 660 (15 ) credit default swaps $ 13,357 $ 149 equity futures $ 6,073 $ 63 equity index options $ 39,345 $ 390 (43 ) equity variance swaps $ 24,598 $ (443 ) 3 total rate of return swaps $ 3,297 $ (79 ) total derivative instruments $ (909 ) net change $ (5,234 ) ______________ 172 table of contents (1) separate account assets and liabilities and contractholder-directed unit-linked investments and associated pabs, which are interest rate sensitive, are not included herein as any interest rate risk is borne by the contractholder. mortgage loans, fvo and trading securities and long-term debt exclude $280 million, $15 million and $151 million, respectively, related to cses. see note 8 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding cses. (2) embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. (3) excludes $204.0 billion of liabilities, at carrying value, pursuant to insurance contracts reported within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances. these liabilities would economically offset a significant portion of the net change in fair value of our financial instruments resulting from a 10% increase in the yield curve. interest rate risk decreased by $1.6 billion, or 23%, to $5.2 billion at december 31, 2014 from $6.8 billion at december 31, 2013 . this change was primarily due to a decrease in interest rates across the swap and u.s. treasury curves of $1.1 billion and a change in the asset base of $296 million. additionally, the use of derivatives by the company, primarily due to the sale of mal, contributed to the decline by $235 million. 173 table of contents the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our portfolio due to a 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates by type of asset or liability at: december 31, 2014 notional amount estimated fair value (1) assuming a 10% increase in the foreign exchange rate (in millions) assets fixed maturity securities $ 365,425 $ (8,103 ) equity securities $ 3,631 (98 ) fair value option and trading securities: actively traded securities $ 654 fair value option general account securities 704 (28 ) total fair value option and trading securities $ 1,358 (28 ) mortgage loans $ 62,554 (694 ) policy loans $ 13,934 (151 ) short-term investments $ 8,621 (176 ) other invested assets $ 826 (62 ) cash and cash equivalents $ 10,808 (380 ) accrued investment income $ 4,120 (75 ) premiums, reinsurance and other receivables $ 3,157 (61 ) other assets $ 243 (8 ) net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) $ 377 (12 ) total assets $ (9,848 ) liabilities (3) policyholder account balances $ 133,387 $ 3,276 payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions $ 35,326 110 long-term debt $ 18,357 138 other liabilities $ 2,785 16 net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) $ (46 ) 109 total liabilities $ 3,649 derivative instruments interest rate swaps $ 101,870 $ 5,090 $ (33 ) interest rate floors $ 55,645 $ 241 interest rate caps $ 49,128 $ 144 interest rate futures $ 2,707 $ (5 ) 1 interest rate options $ 48,078 $ 1,166 (40 ) interest rate forwards $ 225 $ 63 synthetic gics $ 4,298 $ foreign currency swaps $ 32,074 $ (340 ) 356 foreign currency forwards $ 19,638 $ (671 ) (133 ) currency futures $ 522 $ 2 (117 ) currency options $ 14,743 $ 660 431 credit default swaps $ 13,357 $ 149 (2 ) equity futures $ 6,073 $ 63 (1 ) equity index options $ 39,345 $ 390 (20 ) equity variance swaps $ 24,598 $ (443 ) 1 total rate of return swaps $ 3,297 $ (79 ) total derivative instruments $ 443 net change $ (5,756 ) ______________ 174 table of contents (1) does not necessarily represent those financial instruments solely subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk. separate account assets and liabilities and contractholder-directed unit-linked investments and associated pabs, which are foreign currency exchange rate sensitive, are not included herein as any foreign currency exchange rate risk is borne by the contractholder. mortgage loans, fvo and trading securities and long-term debt exclude $280 million, $15 million and $151 million, respectively, related to cses. see note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for information regarding cses. (2) embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. (3) excludes $204.0 billion of liabilities, at carrying value, pursuant to insurance contracts reported within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances. these liabilities would economically offset a significant portion of the net change in fair value of our financial instruments resulting from a 10% increase in foreign currency exchange rates. foreign currency exchange rate risk decreased by $811 million, or 12%, to $5.8 billion at december 31, 2014 from $6.6 billion at december 31, 2013 . this change was primarily due to a net decrease in exchange risk relating to pabs, fixed maturities, cash and cash equivalents and the use of derivatives by the company. 175 table of contents the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our portfolio due to a 10% change in equity by type of asset or liability at: december 31, 2014 notional amount estimated fair value (1) assuming a 10% increase in equity prices (in millions) assets equity securities $ 3,631 $ 363 net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) $ 377 (19 ) total assets 344 liabilities policyholder account balances $ 133,387 net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) $ (46 ) 741 total liabilities $ 741 derivative instruments interest rate swaps $ 101,870 $ 5,090 $ interest rate floors $ 55,645 $ 241 interest rate caps $ 49,128 $ 144 interest rate futures $ 2,707 $ (5 ) interest rate options $ 48,078 $ 1,166 interest rate forwards $ 225 $ 63 synthetic gics $ 4,298 $ foreign currency swaps $ 32,074 $ (340 ) foreign currency forwards $ 19,638 $ (671 ) currency futures $ 522 $ 2 currency options $ 14,743 $ 660 credit default swaps $ 13,357 $ 149 equity futures $ 6,073 $ 63 (577 ) equity index options $ 39,345 $ 390 (266 ) equity variance swaps $ 24,598 $ (443 ) 17 total rate of return swaps $ 3,297 $ (79 ) (337 ) total derivative instruments $ (1,163 ) net change $ (78 ) ______________ (1) does not necessarily represent those financial instruments solely subject to equity price risk. additionally, separate account assets and liabilities and contractholder-directed unit-linked investments and associated pabs, which are equity market sensitive, are not included herein as any equity market risk is borne by the contractholder. (2) embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. equity price risk decreased by $17 million to $78 million at december 31, 2014 from $95 million at december 31, 2013 . this decrease was primarily due to the use of derivatives by the company and an increase in equity securities holdings. 176 table of contentsrisk factors 39 risk factors economic environment and capital markets-related risks if difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally persist, they may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations our business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally. stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in financial asset classes or various markets, including global capital markets, can have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and our insurance liabilities are sensitive to changing market factors. global market factors, including interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, deflation and inflation, all affect our financial condition, as well as the volume, profitability and results of our business operations, either directly or by virtue of their impact on the business and economic environment generally and on general levels of economic activity, employment and customer behavior specifically. disruptions in one market or asset class can also spread to other markets or asset classes. upheavals in the financial markets can also affect our financial condition (including our liquidity and capital levels) as a result of mismatched impacts on the value of our assets and our liabilities. while our diversified business mix and geographically diverse business operations partially mitigate these risks, correlation across regions, countries and global market factors may reduce the benefits of diversification. at times throughout the past several years, volatile conditions have characterized financial markets. significant market volatility, and government actions taken in response, may exacerbate some of the risks we face. weakness in the energy and metals and mining sectors and concerns about the political and/or economic stability of countries in regions outside the eu, including china, ukraine, russia, argentina, brazil, japan and the middle east, as well as puerto rico, have contributed to global market volatility. concerns about global economic conditions, capital markets and the solvency of certain eu member states, their banking systems and the financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by these countries or their respective banking systems, have also been a cause of elevated levels of market volatility. this market volatility has affected the performance of various asset classes at various times, and it could continue until there is an ultimate resolution of these sovereign debt and banking system-related concerns. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends financial and economic environment. any of these factors could have significant adverse effects on the economy and financial markets generally. 39 table of contents to the extent these uncertain financial market conditions persist, our revenues and net investment income are likely to remain under pressure. similarly, sustained periods of low interest rates could cause our profit margins to erode. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends impact of a sustained low interest rate environment. also, in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur significant capital and/or operating losses due to, among other reasons, losses incurred in our general account and as a result of the impact on us of guarantees, capital maintenance obligations and/or collateral requirements associated with our affiliated reinsurers and other similar arrangements. even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility, which may also increase the cost and limit the availability of the hedging instruments and other protective measures we take to mitigate such risk. we are a significant writer of variable insurance products and certain other products issued through separate accounts. the account values of these products decrease as a result of declining equity markets. lower interest rates generally increase account values in the near term, but may result in lower returns in fixed income options in the future. decreases in account values reduce fees generated by these products, cause the amortization of dac to accelerate, could increase the level of insurance liabilities we must carry to support such products issued with any associated guarantees and could require us to provide additional funding to our captive reinsurers. in an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. group insurance, in particular, is affected by higher unemployment rates. in addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. furthermore, our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. such adverse changes in the economy could negatively affect our earnings and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy may continue to raise the possibility of legislative, judicial, regulatory and other governmental actions. see regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth, and risks related to our business competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability below. adverse global capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, our access to capital and our cost of capital the global capital and credit markets may be subject to periods of extreme volatility. disruptions in capital markets could cause our liquidity and credit capacity to be limited. we need liquidity to pay claims and other operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock, provide our subsidiaries with cash or collateral, maintain our securities lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities. without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail our operations, and our business and financial results may suffer. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources. in the event global capital market or other conditions have an adverse impact on our capital and liquidity, or our stress-testing indicates that such conditions could have such an impact beyond expectations and our current resources do not satisfy our needs or regulatory requirements, we may have to seek additional financing. the availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as the then current market conditions, regulatory considerations, availability of credit to us and the financial services industry generally, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and the perception of our customers and lenders regarding our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large operating or investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to a market downturn. similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient and, in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. our liquidity requirements may change if, among other things, we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral on short notice under securities lending agreements. see investments-related risks should the need arise, we may have difficulty selling certain holdings in our investment portfolio or in our securities lending program in a timely manner and realizing full value given their illiquid nature and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments securities lending. 40 table of contents disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital needed to operate our business, most significantly in our insurance operations. such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities, satisfy regulatory capital requirements, and access the capital necessary to grow our business. see regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. as a result, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue different types of securities than we would have otherwise, less effectively deploy such capital, issue shorter tenor securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. we are exposed to significant global financial and capital markets risks which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and may cause our net investment income to vary from period to period we are exposed to significant global financial and capital markets risks, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity, oil and commodity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, market volatility, global economic performance in general, the performance of specific obligors, including governments, included in our investment portfolio and other factors outside our control. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends financial and economic environment and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment. interest rate risk some of our products, principally traditional whole life insurance, fixed annuities and guaranteed interest contracts, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our investment margin or spread, or the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts in our general account and the rate of return we earn on general account investments intended to support obligations under such contracts. our spread is a key component of our net income. in a low interest rate environment, we may be forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, which will reduce our investment margin. moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the fixed income securities and commercial or agricultural mortgage loans in our investment portfolio with greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates, thereby exacerbating this risk. although lowering interest crediting rates can help offset decreases in spreads on some products, our ability to lower these rates could be limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. as a result, our spread could decrease or potentially become negative. see risks related to our business guarantees within certain of our products may decrease our earnings, increase the volatility of our results, result in higher risk management costs and expose us to increased counterparty risk. our expectation for future spreads is an important component in the amortization of dac and voba. significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period. in addition, during periods of declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be relatively more attractive investments to consumers. this could result in increased premium payments on products with flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans and increased persistency, or a higher percentage of insurance policies remaining in-force from year to year, during a period when our new investments carry lower returns. a decline in market interest rates could also reduce our return on investments that do not support particular policy obligations. during periods of sustained lower interest rates, our reserves for policy liabilities may not be sufficient to meet future policy obligations and may need to be strengthened. accordingly, declining and sustained lower interest rates may materially affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows and significantly reduce our profitability. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends impact of a sustained low interest rate environment. as a global insurance company, we are also affected by the monetary policies of the federal reserve board and of central banks around the world. actions resulting from these policies may have an impact on the pricing levels of risk-bearing investments, and may adversely impact the income we earn on our investments or the level of product sales. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment. 41 table of contents increases in interest rates could also negatively affect our profitability. in periods of rapidly increasing interest rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, the investments in our general account with higher yielding investments needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep interest rate sensitive products competitive. we, therefore, may have to accept a lower credit spread and, thus, lower profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of existing contracts and related assets. in addition, policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals may tend to increase as policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns as interest rates rise. this process may result in cash outflows requiring that we sell investments at a time when the prices of those investments are adversely affected by the increase in interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses. unanticipated withdrawals, terminations and substantial policy amendments may cause us to accelerate the amortization of dac and voba, which reduces net income and may also cause us to accelerate the amortization of negative voba, which increases net income. an increase in interest rates could also have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the estimated fair values of the fixed income securities that comprise a substantial portion of our investment portfolio. finally, an increase in interest rates could result in decreased fee income associated with a decline in the value of variable annuity account balances invested in fixed income funds. however, this increase in interest rates would typically cause any guaranteed living benefits to decline in value. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends impact of a sustained low interest rate environment. we manage interest rate risk as part of our asset and liability management strategies, which include maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration that is approximately equal to the duration of our estimated liability cash flow profile. we also use derivatives to mitigate interest rate risk. although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our fixed income investments relative to our interest sensitive liabilities. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. credit spreads our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price volatility and cash flow variability associated with changes in such spreads. market price volatility can make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent. in such case, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period-to-period changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if there is a resumption of significant volatility in the markets, it could cause changes in credit spreads and defaults and a lack of pricing transparency which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments investment risks. equity risk our primary exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with certain of our businesses where fee income is earned based upon the estimated fair value of the assets under management. downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a material adverse effect on the revenues and investment returns from our savings and investment products and services. the retail variable annuity business in particular is highly sensitive to equity markets, and a sustained weakness in the equity markets could decrease revenues and earnings with respect to those products. furthermore, certain of our variable annuity products offer guaranteed benefits which increase our potential benefit exposure should equity markets decline. we use derivatives and reinsurance to mitigate the impact of such increased potential benefit exposures. we are also exposed to interest rate and equity risk based upon the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return assumptions associated with our pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. sustained declines in long-term interest rates or equity returns likely would have a negative effect on the funded status of these plans. in addition, we invest a portion of our investments in leveraged buy-out funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds. the amount and timing of net investment income from such funds tends to be uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying investments. the timing of distributions from such funds, which depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds' schedules for making distributions and their needs for cash, can be difficult to predict. as a result, the amount of net investment income from these investments can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. significant volatility could adversely impact returns and net investment income on these alternative investment classes. in addition, the estimated fair value of such investments may be impacted by downturns or volatility in equity markets. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 42 table of contents real estate risk our primary exposure to real estate risk relates to commercial, agricultural and residential real estate. our exposure to these risks stems from various factors, including the supply and demand of leasable commercial space, creditworthiness of tenants and partners, capital markets volatility and interest rate fluctuations. although we manage credit risk and market valuation risk for our commercial, agricultural and residential real estate assets through geographic, property type and product type diversification, and asset allocation, general economic conditions in the commercial, agricultural and residential real estate sectors will continue to influence the performance of these investments. these factors, which are beyond our control, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. obligor-related risks our investment portfolio contains investments in government bonds issued by certain eu member states and of financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by these countries. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment selected country and sector investments. a number of member states are significantly impacted by the economies of their more influential neighbors and financial troubles of one nation can lead to troubles in others. in particular, a number of large european banks hold significant amounts of sovereign and/or financial institution debt of other european nations and could experience difficulties as a result of defaults or declines in the value of such debt. concerns regarding these difficulties could disrupt the functioning of the financial markets. our investment portfolio also contains investments, primarily in revenue bonds issued under the auspices of u.s. states and municipalities, and a limited amount of general obligation bonds of u.s. states and municipalities (collectively, state and political subdivision securities ). various u.s. states and municipalities have faced budget deficits and financial difficulties. the financial difficulties of such u.s. states and municipalities could have an adverse impact on our state and political subdivision securities. foreign currency exchange rate risks our primary foreign currency exchange rate risks are described under risks related to our business fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our profitability. changes in foreign currency exchange rates can significantly affect our net investment income in any period, and such changes can be substantial. this risk will increase if a country withdraws from the euro zone. in such case, the national currency to which such a country may revert will likely be devalued and contracts using the euro will need to be renegotiated. any such devaluation and its related consequences for our contracts and investments in any such country could be significant and materially adversely affect our operations and earnings in that country. any operations we may have in any such withdrawing country could also be materially adversely affected by legal or governmental actions related to conversion from the euro to a national currency. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. summary significant volatility in the markets could cause changes in interest rates, declines in equity prices, and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses, impairments, increased valuation allowances and changes in unrealized gain or loss positions. regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth our insurance operations and brokerage businesses are subject to a wide variety of insurance and other laws and regulations. see business regulation, as supplemented by discussions of regulatory developments in our subsequently filed quarterly reports on form 10-q under the caption management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends regulatory developments. 43 table of contents u.s. regulation insurance regulation state insurance regulators and the naic regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, can sometimes lead to additional expense for the insurer and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. for example, like many life insurance companies, we use captive reinsurers to satisfy reserve and capital requirements related to universal life and term life insurance policies. state insurance regulators and the naic are investigating the use of affiliated captive reinsurers and offshore entities to reinsure insurance risks and a few states, including new york and california, have imposed a moratorium on new reinsurance transactions between life insurers domiciled in those states and captive reinsurers. see business regulation u.s. regulation insurance regulation insurance regulatory examinations and other activities. if additional state insurance regulators restrict the use of such captive reinsurers, or if we otherwise are unable to continue to use captive reinsurers in the future, our ability to write certain products and/or our rbc ratios and ability to deploy excess capital, could be adversely affected or we may need to increase prices on those products, which could adversely impact our competitive position and our results of operations. such restrictions could also affect statutory reserve funding. see risks related to our business our statutory life insurance reserve financings may be subject to cost increases and new financings may be subject to limited market capacity. u.s. federal regulation affecting insurance currently, the u.s. federal government does not directly regulate the business of insurance. however, dodd-frank established the fio within the department of the treasury, which has the authority to participate in the negotiations of international insurance agreements with foreign regulators for the u.s., as well as to collect information about the insurance industry and recommend prudential standards. on december 12, 2013, the fio issued a report, mandated by dodd-frank, which, among other things, urged the states to modernize and promote greater uniformity in insurance regulation. the report raised the possibility of a greater role for the federal government if states do not achieve greater uniformity in their laws and regulations. we cannot predict whether any such legislation or regulatory changes will be adopted, or what impact they will have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see business regulation u.s. regulation insurance regulation federal initiatives. federal legislation and administrative policies can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies, including policies regarding financial services regulation, securities regulation, derivatives regulation, pension regulation, health care regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. in addition, various forms of direct and indirect federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time, including proposals for the establishment of an optional federal charter for insurance companies. regulation of metlife, inc. as a non-bank sifi on december 18, 2014, the fsoc designated metlife, inc. as a non-bank sifi. as a non-bank sifi, metlife, inc. is subject to regulation by the federal reserve and to enhanced supervision and prudential standards. many of the regulatory requirements that will apply to us have not been specified. in particular, the federal reserve board has not determined the requirements that will govern the amount and composition of capital that metlife, inc. is required to hold. on january 12, 2016, metlife, inc. announced its plan to pursue the separation. see note 23 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. no assurance can be given regarding the form that the proposed separation may take or the specific terms thereof, or that the separation will in fact occur. furthermore, t here can be no assurance that the new company that would be created in connection with the separation will not be designated by the fsoc as a non-bank sifi or that any actions taken in furtherance of this plan will cause the fsoc to revoke its designation of metlife, inc. as a non-bank sifi. the federal reserve board has indicated that it plans to apply enhanced prudential standards to non-bank sifis by rule or order. accordingly, the manner in which these proposed standards might apply to metlife, inc. remains unclear. regulation of metlife, inc. as a non-bank sifi could materially and adversely affect our business. if the federal reserve board requires insurers that are non-bank sifis to comply with capital standards or regimes (such as the basel capital rules that were developed for banks) that do not take into account the insurance business model and the differences between banks and insurers, our business and competitive position could be materially and adversely affected. the capital requirements that apply to us could also constrain our ability to pay dividends, repurchase common stock or other securities or engage in other transactions that could affect our capital. enhanced capital requirements could adversely affect our ability to compete with other insurers that are not subject to those requirements, and our ability to issue guarantees could be constrained. we could have to raise the price of the products we offer, reduce the amount of risk we take on, or stop offering certain products altogether. legislation was signed into law on december 18, 2014 relieving the federal reserve board from certain provisions in dodd-frank that it believed constrained its ability to tailor capital rules for insurers that are non-bank sifis. 44 table of contents metlife, inc. may also be subject to additional prudential standards that the federal reserve board may promulgate for non-bank sifis which will likely include leverage limits, liquidity requirements, single counterparty exposure limits, governance requirements for risk management, stress test requirements, special debt-to-equity limits for certain companies, and early remediation procedures. in addition, non-bank sifis are required to submit a resolution plan setting forth how the company could be resolved under the bankruptcy code in the event of material financial distress. the federal reserve board also has the right to require any of metlife, inc.'s insurance companies, or insurance company affiliates, to take prompt action to correct any financial weaknesses. in addition, as a result of our designation as a non-bank sifi, under the volcker rule, we could be subject to the imposition by the federal reserve board of additional capital requirements and quantitative limits on certain of our trading and investment activities. as a non-bank sifi, we may consider structural and other business alternatives that may be available to us in response to such designation, and we cannot predict the impact that any such alternatives, if implemented, may have on the company or its security holders. see note 23 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information on the company's announcement of its plan to pursue the separation. together with other non-bank sifis and certain other large financial companies, metlife, inc. can be assessed under dodd-frank for any uncovered costs arising in connection with the resolution of a systemically important financial company. in addition, together with other non-bank sifis, metlife, inc. must pay certain assessments and other charges to offset certain costs incurred by the federal reserve board in fulfilling its oversight role and in connection with the financial research fund within the u.s. department of treasury that funds the office of financial research. see business regulation u.s. regulation regulation as a non-bank sifi for additional information regarding regulation of metlife, inc. as a non-bank sifi. erisa considerations we provide products and services to certain employee benefit plans that are subject to erisa or the code. as such, our activities are subject to the restrictions imposed by erisa and the code, including the requirement under erisa that fiduciaries must perform their duties solely in the interests of erisa plan participants and beneficiaries, and that fiduciaries may not cause a covered plan to engage in certain prohibited transactions. the prohibited transaction rules of erisa and the code generally restrict the provision of investment advice to erisa plans and participants and iras if the investment recommendation results in fees paid to the individual advisor, his or her firm or their affiliates that vary according to the investment recommendation chosen. the dol proposed new regulations in april 2015 that would substantially expand the definition of investment advice and thereby broaden the circumstances under which metlife, in providing investment advice with respect to erisa plans, plan participants or iras, could be deemed a fiduciary under erisa or the code. the dol also proposed amendments to its prohibited transaction exemptions, and proposed a new exemption that would apply more onerous disclosure and contract requirements to, and increase fiduciary requirements and fiduciary liability exposure in respect of, transactions involving erisa plans, plan participants and iras. if the new dol proposals become final, metlife may find it necessary to change sales representative and/or broker compensation and may limit the assistance or advice they can provide. see business regulation u.s. regulation erisa considerations. we cannot predict what other proposals may be made, what legislation may be introduced or enacted or the impact of any such legislation on our business, results of operations and financial condition. mortgage and foreclosure-related exposure state and federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities have initiated various inquiries and investigations of alleged irregularities in the foreclosure practices of the residential mortgage servicing industry, mortgage origination and mortgage servicing practices. although we have reached settlements with some regulators relating to our mortgage servicing activities and federal housing administration loan origination, pending or additional inquiries, investigations or examinations may result in further monetary payments or other measures against us. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends mortgage and foreclosure-related exposures. 45 table of contents international regulation our international insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. a significant portion of our revenues is generated through operations in foreign jurisdictions, including many countries in early stages of economic and political development. our international operations may be materially adversely affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and regulators. see risks related to our business our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability. this may also impact many of our customers and independent sales intermediaries. changes in the laws and regulations that affect these customers and independent sales intermediaries or their operations also may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or distribute our products. accordingly, these changes and actions may negatively affect our business in these jurisdictions. we expect the scope and extent of regulation outside of the u.s., as well as regulatory oversight, generally, to continue to increase. the authority of our international operations to conduct business is subject to licensing requirements, permits and approvals, and these authorizations are subject to modification and revocation. the regulatory environment in the countries in which we operate and changes in laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. see business regulation international regulation. solvency regimes we are subject to solvency ii (adopted in 2009, effective on january 1, 2016) and omnibus ii (amending solvency ii, adopted in 2014, effective on january 1, 2016), two interlinked insurance regulatory directives that provide a framework for new risk management practices, solvency capital standards and disclosure requirements across our business in the european economic area, and may be subject to similar solvency regulations in other regions, such as mexico, chile and china. see business regulation international regulation solvency regimes. as requirements are finalized by the regulators, capital requirements might be impacted in a number of jurisdictions. in addition, our legal entity structure throughout europe may impact our capital requirements, risk management infrastructure and reporting by country. global systemically important insurers in the wake of the financial crisis, national and international authorities have proposed measures intended to increase the intensity of regulation of large financial institutions, requiring greater coordination among regulators and efforts to harmonize regulatory regimes. for example, the iais is participating in the fsb's initiative to identify and manage global systemically important financial institutions. to this end, the iais published a methodology to assess the systemic relevance of global insurers and a framework of policy measures to be applied to g-siis and, on this basis, the fsb again so designated metlife, inc. while the regulatory standards that would apply to g-siis are still being developed, they will include enhanced capital standards and supervision and other additional requirements that would not apply to companies that are not g-siis. the iais proposals would need to be implemented by legislation or regulation in each applicable jurisdiction, and the impact on metlife, inc. of such proposals is uncertain. see business regulation international regulation global systemically important insurers. general from time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations or audits of metlife, inc.'s regulated subsidiaries that could, if determined adversely, have a material impact on us. in addition, the interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements. compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the dodd-frank provisions compelling the liquidation of certain types of financial institutions could materially and adversely affect metlife, inc., as such a financial institution and as an investor in other such financial institutions, as well as our investors under provisions of dodd-frank, if metlife, inc. or another financial institution were to become insolvent or were in danger of defaulting on its obligations and it was determined that such default would have serious effects on financial stability in the u.s., it could be compelled to undergo liquidation with the fdic as receiver. while under this new regime an insurance company would be resolved in accordance with state insurance law, if the fdic were appointed as the receive r for another type of a company (including an insurance holding company such as metlife, inc.), liquidation of that company would occur under the provisions of the new liquidation authority, and not under the bankruptcy code, which ordinarily governs liquidations. in an fdic-managed liquidation, holders of a company's debt could be treated differently than under the bankruptcy code and similarly-situated creditors could be treated differently. in particular, unsecured creditors and shareholders are intended to bear the losses of the company being liquidated. these provisions could also apply to financial institutions whose debt securities we hold in our investment portfolio and could adversely affect our position as a creditor and the value of our holdings. 46 table of contents dodd-frank also provides for the assessment of charges against certain financial institutions, including non-bank sifis and bank holding companies and other financial companies with assets of $50 billion or more, to cover the costs of liquidating any financial company subject to the new liquidation authority. the liquidation authority could increase our funding costs. see business regulation u.s. regulation regulation as a non-bank sifi orderly liquidation authority. legislative and regulatory activity in health care and other employee benefits could affect our profitability as a provider of life insurance, annuities, and non-medical health insurance benefit prod ucts the affordable care act may lead to fundamental changes in the way that employers, including us, provide health care benefits and other forms of compensation to their employees and former employees. in addition to imposing obligations on metlife as an enterprise, the affordable care act also imposes requirements on us as a provider of non-medical health insurance benefits and as a purchaser of certain of these products. see business u.s. regulation insurance regulation health care regulation for information regarding such requirements, including the effect of assessments related to public healthcare exchanges. the affordable care act or other related regulations or regulatory actions may adversely affect our ability to continue to offer certain non-medical health and dental insurance products in the same manner as we do today and may continue to result in increased and unpredictable costs to provide certain products thereby harming our competitive position. in addition, we employ a substantial number of employees, including sales agents, in the united states to whom we offer employment-related benefits. we also currently provide benefits to certain of our retirees. these benefits are provided under complex plans that are subject to a variety of regulatory requirements. the affordable care act or related regulations or regulatory actions could adversely affect our ability to attract, retain and motivate our associates. they could also result in increased or unpredictable costs to provide employee benefits, and could harm our competitive position if we are subject to fees, penalties, tax provisions or other limitations in the affordable care act and our competitors are not. the preservation of access to care for medicare beneficiaries and pension relief act of 2010 also includes certain provisions for defined benefit pension plan funding relief. these provisions may impact the likelihood and/or timing of corporate plan sponsors terminating their plans and/or engaging in transactions to partially or fully transfer pension obligations to an insurance company. consequently, this legislation could indirectly affect the mix of our business, with fewer pension risk transfers and more non-guaranteed funding products, and adversely impact our results of operations. changes in u.s. federal, state securities and state insurance laws and regulations may affect our operations and our profitability federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to insurance products that are also securities, including variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies. as a result, some of metlife, inc.'s subsidiaries and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance contracts and policies are subject to extensive regulation under these securities laws. federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily intended to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect investors in the securities markets, and to protect investment advisory or brokerage clients. these laws and regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with the securities laws and regulations. a number of changes have recently been proposed or adopted to the laws and regulations that govern the conduct of our variable insurance products business and our distributors. the future impact of recently adopted revisions to laws and regulations, as well as revisions that are still in the proposal stage, on the way we conduct our business and the products we sell is unclear. such impact could adversely affect our operations and profitability, including increasing the regulatory and compliance burden upon us, resulting in increased costs. see business regulation u.s. regulation erisa considerations and business regulation u.s. regulation securities, broker-dealer and investment adviser regulation. we also may be subject to similar laws and regulations in the foreign countries in which we offer products or conduct other activities similar to those described above. see business regulation international regulation. changes in tax laws or interpretations of such laws could reduce our earnings and materially impact our operations by increasing our corporate taxes and making some of our products less attractive to consumers changes in domestic or foreign tax laws or interpretations of such laws could increase our corporate taxes and reduce our earnings. for example, in the third quarter of 2015, metlife, inc. recorded a $792 million after-tax charge, or $.70 per share, under accounting guidance for the recognition of tax uncertainties as a result of our consideration of recent decisions of the u.s. court of appeals for the second circuit upholding the disallowance of foreign tax credits claimed by other corporate entities not affiliated with us (in transactions different from ours), based upon a changed interpretation of the proper method of determining that a transaction has economic substance. additionally, global budget deficits make it likely that governments' need for additional revenue will result in future tax proposals that will increase our effective tax rate. however, it remains difficult to predict the timing and effect that future tax law changes could have on our earnings both in the u.s. and in foreign jurisdictions. 47 table of contents additionally, u.s. tax laws currently afford certain tax treatment to life insurance and annuity products. the obama administration and some members of congress have proposed certain changes to rules applicable to certain of these products and to individual income tax rates in general. changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to consumers. a shift away from life insurance and annuity contracts and other tax-deferred products by our customers would reduce our income from sales of these products, as well as the asset base upon which we earn investment income and fees, thereby reducing our earnings and potentially affecting the value of our deferred tax assets. federal budgets have been proposed that would change selected company tax provisions and could adversely impact product affordability and availability. tax reform proposals have also been made in recent congresses to modify company tax treatment similar to those in the proposed budgets. these proposals have not advanced. litigation and regulatory investigations are increasingly common in our businesses and may result in significant financial losses and/or harm to our reputation we face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. our pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings specific to us and others generally applicable to business practices in the industries in which we operate. in connection with our insurance operations, plaintiffs' lawyers may bring or are bringing class actions and individual suits alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product design, disclosure, administration, denial or delay of benefits and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers. plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages. due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular points in time may normally be difficult to ascertain. uncertainties can include how fact finders will evaluate documentary evidence and the credibility and effectiveness of witness testimony, and how trial and appellate courts will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal. disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the relevant evidence and applicable law. material pending litigation and regulatory matters affecting us and risks to our business presented by these proceedings are discussed in note 21 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. updates are provided in the notes to our interim condensed consolidated financial statements included in our subsequently filed quarterly reports on form 10-q, as well as in part ii, item 1 ( legal proceedings ) of those quarterly reports. a substantial legal liability or a significant federal, state or other regulatory action against us, as well as regulatory inquiries or investigations, could harm our reputation, result in material fines or penalties, result in significant legal costs and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation, regulatory action or investigation, our ability to attract new customers, retain our current customers and recruit and retain employees could be materially and adversely impacted. regulatory inquiries and litigation may also cause volatility in the price of stocks of companies in our industry. current claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and other proceedings against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. it is also possible that related or unrelated claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and proceedings may be commenced in the future, and we could become subject to further investigations and have lawsuits filed or enforcement actions initiated against us. we currently have a market presence in numerous countries and may be subject to additional investigations and lawsuits in these jurisdictions. increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings in any of the countries where we operate could result in new legal actions and precedents and industry-wide regulations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks related to acquisitions, dispositions or other structural changes we could face difficulties, unforeseen liabilities, asset impairments or rating actions arising from business acquisitions or integrating and managing growth of such businesses, dispositions of businesses, or legal entity reorganizations we have engaged in dispositions and acquisitions of businesses in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future. see note 23 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding metlife, inc.'s plan to pursue the separation. such activity exposes us to a number of risks arising from (i) potential difficulties achieving projected financial results including the costs and benefits of integration or deconsolidation; (ii) unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments; (iii) the scope and duration of rights to indemnification for losses; (iv) the use of capital which could be used for other purposes; (v) rating agency reactions; (vi) regulatory requirements that could impact our operations or capital requirements; (vii) changes in statutory or u.s. gaap accounting principles, practices or policies; and (viii) certain other risks specifically arising from activities relating to an initial public offering, spin-off, joint venture or legal entity reorganization, including in connection with the proposed separation. 48 table of contents the valuation and structure for any transaction reflect our financial projections and other qualitative and quantitative factors. every transaction exposes us to the risk that actual results may materially differ from what we have projected. factors that can cause our financial projections to vary materially from ultimate experience include, but are not limited to, macroeconomic, business growth, demographic, policyholder behavior, regulatory and political conditions. risks relating to acquisitions our ability to achieve certain financial benefits we anticipate from any acquisitions of businesses will depend in part upon our ability to successfully integrate such businesses in an efficient and effective manner. we may not be able to integrate such businesses smoothly or successfully, and the process may take longer than expected. the integration of operations and differences in operational culture may require the dedication of significant management resources, which may distract management's attention from day-to-day business. if we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of such acquired businesses, we may be unable to realize the benefits we expect to achieve as a result of such acquisitions and our business and results of operations may be less than expected. the success with which we are able to integrate acquired operations will depend on our ability to manage a variety of issues, including the following: loss of key personnel or higher than expected employee attrition rates could adversely affect the performance of the acquired business and our ability to integrate it successfully. customers of the acquired business may reduce, delay or defer decisions concerning their use of its products and services as a result of the acquisition or uncertainty related to the consummation of the acquisition, including, for example, potential unfamiliarity with the metlife brand in regions where we did not have a market presence prior to the acquisition. if the acquired business relies upon independent distributors to distribute its products, these distributors may not continue to generate the same volume of business for us after the acquisition. independent distributors may reexamine the scope of their relationship with the acquired business or us as a result of the acquisition and decide to curtail or eliminate distribution of our products. if the acquired business relies on continued distribution access with another party, we are also exposed to the risk of loss of exclusivity or change in access due to regulatory changes. integrating acquired operations with our existing operations may require us to coordinate geographically separated organizations, address possible differences in corporate culture and management philosophies, merge financial processes and risk and compliance procedures, combine separate information technology platforms and integrate operations that were previously closely tied to the former parent of the acquired business or other service providers. in cases where we or an acquired business operates in certain markets through joint ventures, the acquisition may affect the continued success and prospects of the joint venture. we may incur significant costs in connection with any acquisition and the related integration. the costs and liabilities actually incurred in connection with an acquisition and subsequent integration process may exceed those anticipated there could be unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments, including goodwill impairments, which arise in connection with the businesses that we may sell or the businesses that we may acquire in the future. in addition, there may be liabilities or asset impairments that we fail, or are unable, to discover in the course of performing acquisition-related due diligence investigations. furthermore, even for obligations and liabilities that we do discover during the due diligence process, neither the valuation adjustment nor the contractual protections we negotiate may be sufficient to fully protect us from losses. although we generally have rights to indemnification for certain losses, our rights are limited by survival periods for bringing claims and limitations on the nature and amount of losses we may recover, and we cannot be certain that indemnification will be, among other things, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any loss we may suffer. for example, we are indemnified under the stock purchase agreement dated as of march 7, 2010, as amended, by and among metlife, inc., american international group, inc. ( aig ) and alico holdings, llc (now am holdings, llc), a subsidiary of aig, for various tax matters, including u.s. federal income taxes attributable to periods during which the alico business was included in aig's consolidated federal income tax return. it is possible, however, that any such indemnification may not be fully collectible. the use of our own funds as consideration in any acquisition would consume capital resources, which could affect our capital plan and render those funds unavailable for other corporate purposes. we also may not be able to raise sufficient funds to consummate an acquisition if, for example, we are unable to sell our securities or close related bridge credit facilities. 49 table of contents risks relating to dispositions we may separate a business through an outright sale, or by alternate means such as a public offering of shares in an independent, publicly traded company or a spin-off, which would also result in a separate, possibly independent and publicly traded, company. see note 23 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information on the company's announcement of its plan to pursue the proposed separation. any separation that might occur will be subject to the satisfaction of various conditions and approvals, including approval of any transaction by the metlife, inc. board of directors, satisfaction of any applicable requirements of the sec, and receipt of insurance and other regulatory approvals and other anticipated conditions. no assurance can be given regarding the form that the proposed separation may take or the specific terms thereof, or that the separation will in fact occur. unanticipated developments could delay, prevent or otherwise adversely affect our ability to effect any disposition transaction. factors which could affect our ability to consummate such transactions include difficulties in finding buyers and delays or other problems with obtaining required regulatory, tax and other approvals, as well as adverse conditions in the capital and credit markets. when we dispose of subsidiaries or operations, we may remain liable to the acquiror or to third parties for certain losses or costs arising from the divested business or on other bases. we may also incur a loss on the disposition. in anticipation of any disposition, we may need to restructure our operations, which could disrupt such operations and affect our ability to recruit key personnel needed to operate and grow such business. in addition, the actions of key employees of the business to be divested could adversely affect the success of such disposition as they may be more focused on obtaining employment, or the terms of their employment, than on maximizing the value of the business to be divested. such restructuring could also adversely affect our internal controls and procedures and impair our relationships with key customers, distributors and suppliers. any such separation will also decrease the diversification of our sources of revenue and result in a greater percentage of our revenue being derived from non-u.s. sources which may increase our exposure to certain risks. see risks related to our business our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability. after any such disposition, shares of our common stock will represent an investment in a company different in size and characteristics from the present. these changes may cause some existing shareholders to sell their shares of our common stock, which could, if excessive, cause the market price of our common stock to decrease. in addition, we may be unable to timely dissolve all contractual relationships with the divested business in the course of the proposed transaction, which may materially adversely affect our ability to realize value from the disposition. risks relating to joint ventures we participate in joint ventures in several countries, including china and india. we may enter into joint ventures with other companies or government enterprises in various other international markets, including joint ventures where we may have a lesser degree of control over the business operations, which may expose us to additional operational, financial, legal or compliance risks. we may be dependent on a joint venture counterparty for capital, product distribution, local market knowledge, or other resources. limits on our ownership levels under local laws or regulations may increase our dependence on joint venture counterparties and subsequent changes to such laws or regulations may impact how we account for our joint venture ownership interests. see risks related to our business our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability. a joint venture may require an investment of considerable management, financial and operational resources to establish sufficient infrastructure such as underwriting, actuarial, risk management, compliance or other processes. if we are unable to effectively cooperate with joint venture counterparties, or any joint venture counterparty fails to meets its obligations under the joint venture arrangement, encounters financial difficulty, or elects to alter, modify or terminate the relationship, we may be unable to exercise management control or influence over these joint venture operations and our ability to achieve our objectives and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. 50 table of contents risks relating to legal entity reorganizations in addition, we may reorganize or consolidate the legal entities through which we conduct business. for example, in november 2014, the company completed the mergers. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations executive summary other key information significant events. the implementation of legal entity reorganizations is a complex undertaking and involves a number of risks similar to those outlined above that are present in the case of an acquisition, including additional costs and expenses, information technology-related delays and problems, loss of key personnel and distraction of management. many aspects of these transactions are subject to regulatory approvals from a number of different jurisdictions. we may not obtain needed regulatory approvals in the timeframe anticipated or at all, which could reduce or prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of these transactions. these transactions or the related regulatory approvals may entail modifications of certain aspects of our operations, the composition of certain of our investment portfolios, and/or the cost of our derivatives hedging activities, which could result in additional costs or reduce net investment income. any of these risks, if realized, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. investments-related risks should the need arise, we may have difficulty selling certain holdings in our investment portfolio or in our securities lending program in a timely manner and realizing full value given their illiquid nature there may be a limited market for certain investments we hold in our investment portfolio, making them relatively illiquid. these include privately-placed fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, policy loans, leveraged leases, other limited partnership interests, and real estate equity, such as real estate joint ventures and funds. in recent years, even some of our very high quality investments experienced reduced liquidity during periods of market volatility or disruption. if we were forced to sell certain of our investments during periods of market volatility or disruption, market prices may be lower than our carrying value in such investments. this could result in realized losses which could have a material adverse effect on our net income and financial position. similarly, we loan blocks of our securities to third parties (primarily brokerage firms and commercial banks) through our securities lending program, including fixed maturity and equity securities, short-term investments and cash equivalents. under this program, we obtain collateral, usually cash, at the inception of a loan and typically purchase securities with the cash collateral. upon the return to us of these loaned securities, we must return to the third party the cash collateral we received. if the cash collateral has been invested in securities, we need to sell the securities. however, in some cases, the maturity of those securities may exceed the term of the related securities on loan and the estimated fair value of the securities we need to sell may fall below the amount of cash received. if we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral under our securities lending program or otherwise need significant amounts of cash on short notice and we are forced to sell securities, we may have difficulty selling such collateral that is invested in securities in a timely manner, be forced to sell securities in a volatile or illiquid market for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize under normal market conditions, or both. in the event of a forced sale, accounting guidance requires the recognition of a loss for securities in an unrealized loss position and may require the impairment of other securities based on our ability to hold those securities, which would negatively impact our financial condition. in addition, under stressful capital market and economic conditions, liquidity broadly deteriorates, which may further restrict our ability to sell securities. furthermore, if we decrease the amount of our securities lending activities over time, the amount of net investment income generated by these activities will also likely decline. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital uses securities lending. 51 table of contents our requirements to pledge collateral or make payments related to declines in estimated fair value of derivatives transactions or specified assets in connection with otc-cleared and otc-bilateral transactions may adversely affect our liquidity, expose us to central clearinghouse and counterparty credit risk, and increase our costs of hedging substantially all of our derivatives transactions require us to pledge collateral related to any decline in the net estimated fair value of such derivatives transactions executed through a specific broker at a clearinghouse or entered into with a specific counterparty on a bilateral basis. certain derivatives financing transactions require us to pledge collateral or make payments related to declines in the estimated fair value of the specified assets under certain circumstances to central clearinghouses or our counterparties. the amount of collateral we may be required to pledge and the payments we may be required to make under our derivatives transactions may increase under certain circumstances and will increase as a result of the requirement to pledge initial margin for otc-cleared transactions entered into after june 10, 2013 and for otc-bilateral transactions entered into after the phase-in period, which would be applicable to us in 2020 as a result of the adoption by the prudential regulators and the cftc of final margin requirements for non-centrally cleared derivatives. although the final rules allow us to pledge a broad range of non-cash collateral as initial and variation margin, the prudential regulators, cftc, central clearinghouses and counterparties may restrict or eliminate certain types of previously eligible collateral or charge us to pledge such non-cash collateral, which would increase our costs and could adversely affect the liquidity of our investments and the composition of our investment portfolio. see business regulation u.s. regulation regulation of over-the-counter derivatives, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital uses pledged collateral, and note 9 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities and defaults, downgrades or other events may result in future impairments to the carrying value of such securities, resulting in a reduction in our net income fixed maturity and equity securities classified as available-for-sale ( afs ) securities are reported at their estimated fair value. unrealized gains or losses on afs securities are recognized as a component of other comprehensive income (loss) ( oci ) and are, therefore, excluded from net income. in recent periods, as a result of low interest rates, the unrealized gains on our fixed maturity securities have far exceeded the unrealized losses. however, if interest rates rise, our unrealized gains would decrease and our unrealized losses would increase, perhaps substantially. the accumulated change in estimated fair value of these afs securities is recognized in net income when the gain or loss is realized upon the sale of the security or in the event that the decline in estimated fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary and an impairment charge to earnings is taken. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments fixed maturity and equity securities afs. the occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening credit risk spreads, or other events that adversely affect the issuers or guarantors of securities or the underlying collateral of structured securities could cause the estimated fair value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio and corresponding earnings to decline and cause the default rate of the fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio to increase. a ratings downgrade affecting issuers or guarantors of particular securities, or similar trends that could worsen the credit quality of issuers, such as the corporate issuers of securities in our investment portfolio, could also have a similar effect. with economic uncertainty, credit quality of issuers or guarantors could be adversely affected. similarly, a ratings downgrade affecting a security we hold could indicate the credit quality of that security has deteriorated and could increase the capital we must hold to support that security to maintain our rbc levels. levels of writedowns or impairments are impacted by intent to sell, or our assessment of the likelihood that we will be required to sell, fixed maturity securities, as well as our intent and ability to hold equity securities which have declined in value until recovery. realized losses or impairments on these securities may have a material adverse effect on our net income in a particular quarterly or annual period. 52 table of contents our valuation of securities and investments and the determination of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on our investments are subjective and include methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations and market conditions and, if changed, could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition fixed maturity, equity, fair value option ( fvo ) and trading securities, as well as short-term investments that are reported at estimated fair value represent the majority of our total cash and investments. we define fair value generally as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability. considerable judgment is often required in interpreting market data to develop estimates of fair value, and the use of different assumptions or valuation methodologies may have a material effect of the estimated fair value amounts. during periods of market disruption including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. in addition, in times of financial market disruption, certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data may become illiquid. in those cases, the valuation process includes inputs that are less observable and require more subjectivity and management judgment. valuations may result in estimated fair values which vary significantly from the amount at which the investments may ultimately be sold. further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in estimated fair value could vary significantly. decreases in the estimated fair value of securities we hold may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments and notes 1 and 10 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. the determination of the amount of allowances and impairments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. we reflect any changes in allowances and impairments in earnings as such evaluations are revised. however, historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances. in addition, any such future impairments or allowances could have a materially adverse effect on our earnings and financial position. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates investment impairments an d note 8 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. defaults on our mortgage loans and volatility in performance may adversely affect our profitability our mortgage loans face default risk and are principally collateralized by commercial, agricultural and residential properties. we establish valuation allowances for estimated impairments, which are based on loan risk characteristics, historical default rates and loss severities, real estate market fundamentals and outlooks, as well as other relevant factors. in addition, substantially all of our mortgage loans held-for-investment have balloon payment maturities. an increase in the default rate of our mortgage loan investments or fluctuations in their performance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. further, any geographic or property type concentration of our mortgage loans may have adverse effects on our investment portfolio and consequently on our results of operations or financial condition. while we seek to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolio to the extent that the portfolio is concentrated. moreover, our ability to sell assets relating to such particular groups of related assets may be limited if other market participants are seeking to sell at the same time. in addition, legislative proposals that would allow or require modifications to the terms of mortgage loans could be enacted. we cannot predict whether these proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business or investments. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments mortgage loans. 53 table of contents the defaults or deteriorating credit of other financial institutions could adversely affect us we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, central clearinghouses, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge funds and investment funds and other financial institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. in addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. we also have exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments, non-redeemable and redeemable preferred securities, derivatives, joint venture, hedge fund and equity investments. further, potential action by governments and regulatory bodies in response to the financial crisis affecting the global banking system and financial markets, such as investment, nationalization, conservatorship, receivership and other intervention, whether under existing legal authority or any new authority that may be created, or lack of action by governments and central banks, as well as deterioration in the banks' credit standing, could negatively impact these instruments, securities, transactions and investments or limit our ability to trade with them. any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these investments or other changes may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. risks related to our business our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability our international operations face political, legal, financial, operational and other risks. these operations may be materially adversely affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and regulators, such as through nationalization or expropriation of assets; the imposition of limits on foreign ownership of local companies which may increase our dependence on joint venture counterparties and/or impact how we account for our joint venture ownership interests; changes in laws (including tax laws and regulations), their application or interpretation; political instability (including any resulting economic or trade sanctions); dividend limitations; price controls; changes in applicable currency; currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold into u.s. dollars or other currencies, as well as other adverse actions by foreign governmental authorities and regulators, such as the retroactive application of new requirements on our current and prior activities or operations and the imposition of regulations limiting our ability to distribute our products. such actions may negatively affect our business in these jurisdictions and could indirectly affect our business in other jurisdictions as well. some of our foreign insurance operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where these risks are heightened. part of our international insurance operations may be subject to assessments, generally based on their proportionate share of business written in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations to policyholders and claimants resulting from the insolvency of insurance companies. we cannot predict the timing and scope of any assessments that may be made in the future, which may materially affect the results of operations of our international insurance operations in particular quarterly or annual periods. see business regulation international regulation and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, as well as regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. we have operations in regions where the legal and political systems and regulatory frameworks are subject to instability and disruptions. for example, instability has increased in many parts of the middle east, as well as china, argentina, ukraine and russia. lack of legal certainty and stability in these regions exposes our operations there to increased risk of disruption and to adverse or unpredictable actions by regulators and may make it more difficult for us to enforce our contracts, which may negatively impact our business in these regions. 54 table of contents we have market presence in numerous countries and increased exposure to risks posed by local and regional economic conditions. china, europe and japan continue to experience overall sluggish economic performance, with concerns over low inflation. we face substantial exposure to the japanese economy given our operations there. unfavorable economic conditions in japan, as well as in china and europe, could adversely impact the demand for our products, negatively impact earnings, adversely affect the performance of our investments or result in impairments, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. see economic environment and capital markets-related risks if difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally persist, they may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. certain eu member states, including portugal, ireland, italy, greece and spain ( europe's perimeter region ) have been particularly affected by the sluggish economy, resulting in increased national debts and depressed economic activity. we have significant operations and investments in certain of these countries, including europe's perimeter region, which could be adversely affected by economic developments such as higher taxes, growing inflation, deflation, decreasing government spending, rising unemployment and currency instability. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our profitability, and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends financial and economic environment. furthermore, we rely on local sales forces in these countries and may encounter labor problems resulting from workers' associations and trade unions in some countries. if our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training the sales force in that country. we are continuing to expand our international operations in certain markets where we operate and in selected new markets. this may require considerable management time, as well as start-up expenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. the prospects of our business also may be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to manage the growth of such international operations successfully. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in managing such future growth. further, operations in new foreign markets may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in existing markets may be affected by local political, economic and market conditions. therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not achieve expected operating margins and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our profitability we are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar resulting from our holdings of non-u.s. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries, net income from foreign operations and issuance of non-u.s. dollar denominated instruments, including guaranteed interest contracts and funding agreements. in general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the u.s. dollar will adversely affect the estimated fair value of our non-u.s. dollar denominated investments, our investments in foreign subsidiaries, and our net income from foreign operations. in addition, from time to time, various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies. our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk is exacerbated by our investments in these emerging markets. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in addition, certain of our life and annuity products are exposed to foreign exchange rate risk. payments under these contracts, depending on the circumstances, may be required to be made in different currencies and may not be the legal tender in the country whose law governs the particular product. changes in exchange rate movements and the imposition of capital controls may also directly impact the liability valuation that may not be entirely hedged. if the currency upon which expected future payments are made strengthens, the liability valuation may increase, which may result in a reduction of net income. historically, we have matched substantially all of our foreign currency denominated liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with investments denominated in their respective foreign currency, which limits the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuations on local operating results; however, fluctuations in such rates affect the translation of these results into our u.s. dollar basis consolidated financial statements. although we take certain actions to address this risk, including entering into foreign currency derivatives, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could materially adversely affect our reported results due to unhedged positions or the failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. our reported results could also be adversely affected if the economy of one or more of our foreign subsidiaries is determined to be highly inflationary, generally defined by a cumulative inflation rate of approximately 100% or more over a three-year period. 55 table of contents we face substantial exposure to risks associated with fluctuations in the yen/u.s. dollar exchange rate because we have substantial operations in japan and a significant portion of our premiums and investment income in japan are received in yen. most claims and expenses associated with our operations in japan are also paid in yen and we primarily purchase yen-denominated assets to support yen-denominated policy liabilities. these and other yen-denominated financial statement items are, however, translated into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. accordingly, fluctuations in the yen/u.s. dollar exchange rate can have a significant effect on our reported financial position and results of operations. our japan operation does assume some currency exposure by backing a portion of surplus and yen-denominated liabilities with u.s. dollar assets. although this represents risk to our japan operation, this activity reduces yen exposure at the enterprise level . additionally, our japan operation sells u.s. dollar and australian dollar life and annuity products to japanese customers. we may experience elevated levels of early policy terminations when the japanese yen weakens against these currencies. while the cost of early policy terminations is offset by surrender charges, foreign exchange rate fluctuations will impact both our sales volumes and the amount of business we have in-force. due to our significant international operations, during periods when any foreign currency in which we derive our revenues weakens (strengthens), translating amounts expressed in that currency into u.s. dollars causes fewer (more) u.s. dollars to be reported. any unrealized foreign currency translation adjustments ( fcta ) are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ( aoci ). the weakening of a foreign currency relative to the u.s. dollar will generally adversely affect the value of investments in u.s. dollar terms and reduce the level of reserves denominated in that currency. an inability to access our credit facilities could result in a reduction in our liquidity and lead to downgrades in our credit and financial strength ratings we rely on our credit facilities as a potential source of liquidity. the availability of these facilities could be critical to our credit and financial strength ratings and our ability to meet our obligations as they come due in a market when alternative sources of credit are tight. these credit facilities contain certain administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants, including a requirement to maintain a specified minimum consolidated net worth. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital sources global funding sources credit and committed facilities and note 12 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. our right to borrow funds under these facilities is subject to the fulfillment of certain important conditions, including our compliance with all covenants, and our ability to borrow under these facilities is also subject to the continued willingness and ability of the lenders that are parties to the facilities to provide funds. our failure to comply with the covenants in the credit facilities or fulfill the conditions to borrowings, or the failure of lenders to fund their lending commitments (whether due to insolvency, illiquidity or other reasons) in the amounts provided for under the terms of the facilities, would restrict our ability to access these credit facilities when needed and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may need to fund deficiencies in our closed block; assets allocated to the closed block benefit only the holders of closed block policies mlic's plan of reorganization, as amended, established in connection with its demutualization (the plan of reorganization ), required that we establish and operate an accounting mechanism, known as a closed block, to ensure that the reasonable dividend expectations of policyholders who own individual participating whole life insurance policies of mlic in force at the time of the demutualization are met. we allocated assets to the closed block in an amount that will produce cash flows which, together with anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block, are reasonably expected to be sufficient to support obligations and liabilities relating to these policies, including, but not limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain expenses and tax, and to provide for the continuation of the policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999, if the experience underlying such scales continues, and for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience changes. the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block may not be sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies. if they are not, we must fund the shortfall. even if they are sufficient, we may choose, for competitive reasons, to support policyholder dividend payments with our general account funds. the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenues from the policies in the closed block will benefit only the holders of the policies in the closed block. in addition, to the extent that these amounts are greater than the amounts estimated at the time the closed block was funded, dividends payable in respect of the policies included in the closed block may be greater than they would be in the absence of a closed block. any excess earnings will be available for distribution over time only to closed block policyholders. see note 7 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 56 table of contents a downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could result in a loss of business and materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations financial strength ratings are published by various nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ( nrsros ) and similar entities not formally recognized as nrsros. they indicate the nrsros' opinion regarding an insurance company's ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations, and are important to maintaining public confidence in our products and our competitive position. see business company ratings for additional information regarding our financial strength ratings. downgrades in our financial strength ratings or changes to our rating outlooks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including: reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other investment products; adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and independent sales intermediaries; materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders; requiring us to post additional collateral under certain of our financing and derivative transactions; requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and services to remain competitive; and adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices or at all. in addition to the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries, various nrsros also publish credit ratings for metlife, inc. and several of its subsidiaries. credit ratings indicate the nrsros' opinion regarding a debt issuer's ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner and are important factors in our overall funding profile and ability to access certain types of liquidity. downgrades in our credit ratings or changes to our rating outlooks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including limiting our access to capital markets, potentially increasing the cost of debt, and requiring us to post collateral. see note 9 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding the impact of a one-notch downgrade with respect to derivative transactions with credit rating downgrade triggers and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital uses pledged collateral for further information on the impact of a one-notch downgrade. see also management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company capital rating agencies. in view of the difficulties experienced by many financial institutions as a result of the financial crisis and ensuing global recession, including our competitors in the insurance industry, we believe it is possible that the nrsros will continue to heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to insurance companies, will continue to increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, will continue to request additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without notice by any nrsro. reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses as part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various business segments. while reinsurance agreements generally bind the reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured at generally fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new business. in certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for business already reinsured may also increase. for example, for some of our group businesses under which the policies and related reinsurance are subject to periodic (typically annual) renewal, prices may increase at any renewal. also, for most of our traditional life reinsurance agreements, it is common for the reinsurer to have a right to increase reinsurance rates on in-force business if there is a systematic deterioration of mortality in the market as a whole. any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to those policies we issue. see business reinsurance activity and if the counterparties to our reinsurance or indemnification arrangements or to the derivatives we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 57 table of contents if the counterparties to our reinsurance or indemnification arrangements or to the derivatives we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations we use reinsurance, indemnification and derivatives to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. in general, reinsurance, indemnification and derivatives do not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers, indemnitors, counterparties and central clearinghouses. a reinsurer's, indemnitor's, counterparty's or central clearinghouse's insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of reinsurance agreements, indemnity agreements or derivatives agreements with us or inability or unwillingness to return collateral could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, including our liquidity. see business reinsurance activity. in addition, we use derivatives to hedge various business risks. we enter into a variety of derivatives, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit default and currency swaps with a number of counterparties on a bilateral basis for uncleared otc derivatives and with clearing brokers and central clearinghouses for otc-cleared derivatives. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations derivatives. if our counterparties, clearing brokers or central clearinghouses fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivatives, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. this risk is more pronounced in light of the stresses suffered by financial institutions over the past few years. such failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. differences between actual claims experience and underwriting and reserving assumptions may adversely affect our financial results our earnings significantly depend upon the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in setting prices for our products and establishing liabilities for future policy benefits and claims. such amounts are established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims. to the extent that actual claims experience is less favorable than the underlying assumptions we used in establishing such liabilities, we could be required to increase our liabilities. due to the nature of the underlying risks and the uncertainty associated with the determination of liabilities for future policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely the amounts which we will ultimately pay to settle our liabilities. such amounts may vary from the estimated amounts, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future. we evaluate our liabilities periodically based on accounting requirements, which change from time to time, the assumptions used to establish the liabilities, as well as our actual experience. if the liabilities originally established for future benefit payments prove inadequate, we must increase them. such increases could affect earnings negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. see business policyholder liabilities and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations policyholder liabilities. catastrophes may adversely impact liabilities for policyholder claims and reinsurance availability our insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic events. the extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however, hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis and man-made catastrophes may produce significant damage or loss of life or property damage in larger areas, especially those that are heavily populated. claims resulting from catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition. in addition, catastrophic events could harm the financial condition of issuers of obligations we hold in our investment portfolio, resulting in impairments to these obligations, and the financial condition of our reinsurers, thereby increasing the probability of default on reinsurance recoveries. large-scale catastrophes may also reduce the overall level of economic activity in affected countries which could hurt our business and the value of our investments or our ability to write new business. it is possible that increases in the value, caused by the effects of inflation or other factors, and geographic concentration of insured lives or property, could increase the severity of claims we receive from future catastrophic events. 58 table of contents our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that causes a large number of deaths. significant influenza pandemics have occurred three times in the last century; however, the likelihood, timing, and severity of a future pandemic cannot be predicted. a significant pandemic could have a major impact on the global economy or the economies of particular countries or regions, including travel, trade, tourism, the health system, food supply, consumption, overall economic output and, eventually, on the financial markets. in addition, a pandemic that affected our employees or the employees of our distributors or of other companies with which we do business could disrupt our business operations. the effectiveness of external parties, including governmental and non-governmental organizations, in combating the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have a material impact on the losses experienced by us. in our group insurance operations, a localized event that affects the workplace of one or more of our group insurance customers could cause a significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims. these events could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any period and, depending on their severity, could also materially and adversely affect our financial condition. our property &amp; casualty businesses have experienced, and will likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses that may have a material adverse impact on their business, results of operations and financial condition. although we make every effort to limit our exposure to catastrophic risks through volatility management and reinsurance programs, these efforts do not eliminate all risk. catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards), fires and man-made events such as terrorist attacks. historically, most of our property &amp; casualty catastrophe-related claims have related to homeowners coverages. however, catastrophes may also affect other property &amp; casualty coverages. due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence, timing and severity of catastrophes. in addition, changing climate conditions, primarily rising global temperatures, may increase the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes such as hurricanes, tornadoes and floods. we have hurricane exposure in coastal sections of the northeastern u.s. (including lower new york, new jersey, connecticut, rhode island and massachusetts), the south atlantic states (including virginia, north carolina, south carolina, georgia and florida) and the gulf coast (including alabama, mississippi, louisiana and texas). we also have some earthquake exposure, primarily along the new madrid fault line in the central u.s. and in the pacific northwest. consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we establish liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. we cannot be certain that the liabilities we have established will be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities. from time to time, states have passed legislation that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage risk, such as legislation restricting an insurer's ability to withdraw from catastrophe-prone areas. while we attempt to limit our exposure to acceptable levels, subject to restrictions imposed by insurance regulatory authorities, a catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. most of the jurisdictions in which our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business require life and property &amp; casualty insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations. these associations are organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers, who may become impaired, insolvent or fail, for example, following the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events. these associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is engaged. in addition, certain states have government owned or controlled organizations providing life and property &amp; casualty insurance to their citizens. the activities of such organizations could also place additional stress on the adequacy of guaranty fund assessments. many of these organizations also have the power to levy assessments similar to those of the guaranty associations described above. some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. see business regulation u.s. regulation insurance regulation guaranty associations and similar arrangements and business regulation international regulation. while in the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied against metlife have not been material, it is possible that a large catastrophic event could render such guaranty funds inadequate and we may be called upon to contribute additional amounts, which may have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations in a particular period. we have established liabilities for guaranty fund assessments that we consider adequate, but additional liabilities may be necessary. see note 21 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. our ability to manage this risk and the profitability of our property &amp; casualty and life insurance businesses depends in part on our ability to obtain catastrophe reinsurance, which may not be available at commercially acceptable rates in the future. see reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses. 59 table of contents our statutory life insurance reserve financings may be subject to cost increases and new financings may be subject to limited market capacity we currently utilize capital markets solutions to finance a portion of our statutory reserve requirements for several products, including, but not limited to, our level premium term li fe subject to the naic model regulation valuation of life insurance policies (commonly referred to as xxx), and ulsg subject to naic actuarial guideline 38 (commonly referred to as axxx), as well as mlic's closed block. while we have financing facilities in place for certain previously written business, certain of these facilities are subject to cost increases upon the occurrence of specified ratings downgrades of metlife or are subject to periodic re-pricing. any resulting cost increases could negatively impact our financial results. future capacity for these statutory reserve funding structures in the marketplace is not guaranteed. currently, state insurance regulators and the naic are investigating the use of captive reinsurers and offshore entities to reinsure insurance risks. see regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. insurance regulators in a few states, including new york and california, have imposed a moratorium on new reinsurance transactions between life insurers domiciled in those states and captive reinsurers. if additional state insurance regulators determine to restrict the use of captive reinsurers for purposes of funding reserve requirements or capacity in the capital markets otherwise becomes unavailable for a prolonged period of time, thereby hindering our ability to obtain funding for these new structures, our ability to write additional business in a cost effective manner may be impacted. competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability we believe competition amongst insurance companies is based on a number of factors, including service, product features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, e-business capabilities and name recognition. we compete globally with a large number of other insurance companies, as well as non-insurance financial services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset managers, for individual consumers, employers and other group customers and agents and other distributors of insurance and investment products. some of these companies offer a broader array of products, have more competitive pricing or, with respect to other insurance companies, have higher claims paying ability ratings. some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete. in some circumstances, national banks that sell annuity products of life insurers may also have pre-existing customer bases for financial services products. additionally, many of our group insurance products are underwritten annually. there is a risk that group purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors than they could renewing coverage with us. these competitive pressures may adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell our products in the future. furthermore, the investment management and securities brokerage businesses have relatively few barriers to entry and continually attract new entrants. see business competition. the insurance industry distributes many of its individual products through other financial institutions such as banks and broker-dealers. an increase in bank and broker-dealer consolidation activity may negatively impact the industry's sales, and such consolidation could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market insurance products to our current customer base or to expand our customer base. consolidation of distributors and/or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us. in addition, since numerous aspects of our business are subject to regulation, legislative and other changes affecting the regulatory environment for our business may have, over time, the effect of supporting or burdening some aspects of the financial services industry more than others. this can affect our competitive position within the life insurance industry and within the broader financial services industry. see business regulation, regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth, and regulatory and legal risks changes in u.s. federal, state securities and state insurance laws and regulations may affect our operations and our profitability. if our business does not perform well, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our goodwill or other long-lived assets or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition we perform our goodwill impairment testing using the fair value approach, which requires the use of estimates and judgment, at the reporting unit level. a reporting unit is the operating segment or a business one level below the operating segment under certain circumstances. 60 table of contents the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the business, which may be adversely impacted by prolonged market declines. if it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, we must write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. such writedowns could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates goodwill and notes 1 and 11 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate, also require impairment testing. this testing is done to determine whether changes in circumstances indicate that we will be unable to recover the carrying amount of the asset group. such writedowns could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities. deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. factors in management's determination include the performance of the business including the ability to generate future taxable income. if, based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. in addition, changes in the corporate tax rates could affect the value of our deferred tax assets and may require a write-off of some of those assets. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates income taxes. if our business does not perform well or if actual experience versus estimates used in valuing and amortizing dac, deferred sales inducements ( dsi ) and voba vary significantly, we may be required to accelerate the amortization and/or impair the dac, dsi and voba which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition we incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal insurance business. costs that are related directly to the successful acquisition of new and renewal insurance business are deferred and referred to as dac. bonus amounts credited to certain policyholders, either immediately upon receiving a deposit or as excess interest credits for a period of time, are deferred and referred to as dsi. voba represents the excess of book value over the estimated fair value of acquired insurance, annuity, and investment-type contracts in-force at the acquisition date. the estimated fair value of the acquired liabilities is based on actuarially determined projections, by each block of business, of future policy and contract charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account performance, surrenders, operating expenses, investment returns, nonperformance risk adjustment and other factors. dac, dsi and voba related to fixed and variable universal life and deferred annuity contracts are amortized in proportion to actual and expected future gross profits and for most participating contracts in proportion to actual and expected future gross margins. the amount of future gross profit or margin is dependent principally on investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest crediting rates, dividends paid to policyholders, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties and certain economic variables, such as inflation. of these factors, we anticipate that investment returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of dac for the aforementioned contracts. if actual gross profits or margins are less than originally expected, then the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to income. significant or sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of dac, dsi and voba related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends impact of a sustained low interest rate environment for a discussion of how significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates deferred policy acquisition costs and value of business acquired and note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further consideration of dac and voba. guarantees within certain of our products may decrease our earnings, increase the volatility of our results, result in higher risk management costs and expose us to increased counterparty risk certain of our variable annuity products include guaranteed benefits, including guaranteed minimum death benefits ( gmdbs ), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits ( gmwbs ), guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits ( gmabs ), and guaranteed minimum income benefits ( gmibs ). these guarantees are designed to protect policyholders against significant downturns in equity markets and interest rates. any such periods of significant and sustained downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, or reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of our liabilities associated with those products. an increase in these liabilities would result in a decrease in our net income. 61 table of contents we use hedging and other risk management strategies to mitigate the liability exposure and the volatility of net income associated with these liabilities. these strategies involve the use of reinsurance and derivatives, which may not be completely effective. for example, in the event that reinsurers, derivative counterparties or central clearinghouses are unable or unwilling to pay, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefits. see if the counterparties to our reinsurance or indemnification arrangements or to the derivatives we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, hedging instruments may not effectively offset the costs of guarantees or may otherwise be insufficient in relation to our obligations. furthermore, we are subject to the risk that changes in policyholder behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events, produce economic losses not addressed by the risk management techniques employed. these, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including net income, financial condition or liquidity. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations policyholder liabilities variable annuity guarantees and note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further consideration of the risks associated with guaranteed benefits. capital-related risks regulatory restrictions and uncertainty and restrictions under the terms of certain of our securities may prevent us from repurchasing our stock and paying dividends at the level we wish the declaration and payment of dividends is subject to the discretion of our board of directors, and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements, future prospects, regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by metlife, inc.'s insurance subsidiaries and other factors deemed relevant by the board. there is no requirement or assurance that we will declare and pay any dividends. in addition, as a result of metlife, inc.'s designation as a non-bank sifi, we may be subject to restrictions arising from federal reserve regulation, including capital planning and stress testing requirements. the capital requirements that will apply to non-bank sifis are unclear. furthermore, if additional capital requirements are imposed on metlife, inc. as a g-sii, its ability to pay dividends could be reduced by any such additional capital requirements that might be imposed. see regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. in addition, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and repurchase our common stock is subject to restrictions arising from the terms of our preferred stock, junior subordinated debentures and trust securities, so called dividend stopper provisions, in situations where we may be experiencing financial stress. for purposes of this discussion, junior subordinated debentures are deemed to include metlife's fixed-to-floating exchangeable surplus trust securities, which are exchangeable for junior subordinated debentures, and which contain terms with the same substantive effects in this discussion as the terms of metlife, inc.'s junior subordinated debentures. in addition, our ability to pay dividends on our preferred stock and interest on our junior subordinated debentures is also restricted by the terms of those securities. regulatory restrictions the federal reserve board is required under dodd-frank to adopt enhanced prudential standards, including heightened capital and stress testing requirements, for non-bank sifis. while stress testing requirements have been adopted, they will not be effective until rules relating to capital requirements are implemented. although the federal reserve board has indicated that it intends to apply enhanced prudential standards to non-bank sifis by rule or order, it has not yet done so. therefore, the manner in which these proposed standards might apply to metlife, inc., as a non-bank sifi, remains unclear. see business regulation u.s. regulation regulation as a non-bank sifi. see also business regulation international regulation global systemically important insurers regarding potential restrictions on metlife, inc. as a g-sii. it is possible that these requirements, or any others adopted, could restrict our ability to pay dividends, repurchase our common stock or other securities or engage in other transactions that could affect our capital . furthermore, as a non-bank sifi, metlife, inc. will be subject to stress testing conducted by the federal reserve, and our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our stock will be dependent on demonstrating the robustness of our capital planning and projection processes, as well as our ability to maintain our capital levels above regulatory minimum levels under stress scenarios. in addition, metlife, inc. may not be able to pay dividends if it does not receive sufficient funds from its operating subsidiaries, which are themselves subject to separate regulatory restrictions on their ability to pay dividends. see as a holding company, metlife, inc. depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends, a major component of holding company free cash flow. 62 table of contents dividend stopper provisions in our preferred stock and junior subordinated debentures certain terms of our preferred stock and our junior subordinated debentures may prevent us from purchasing our common stock or paying dividends on our common stock in certain circumstances. moreover, metlife, inc. is a party to certain replacement capital covenants which limit its ability to eliminate these restrictions through the repayment, redemption or purchase of preferred stock or junior subordinated debentures by requiring metlife, subject to certain limitations, to receive cash proceeds during a specified period from the sale of specified replacement securities prior to any repayment, redemption or purchase. see note 14 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for a description of such covenants in effect with respect to junior subordinated debentures. under our preferred stock, if we have not paid the full dividends on our preferred stock for a dividend period, we may not repurchase or pay dividends on our common stock for that period. under our junior subordinated debentures, if we have not paid in full the accrued interest through the most recent interest payment date on our junior subordinated debentures, we may not repurchase or pay dividends on our common stock or other capital stock (including the preferred stock), subject to certain exceptions. trigger events for the restrictions on the payment of dividends on our preferred stock and restrictions on the payment of interest on our junior subordinated debentures in addition, the preferred stock and the junior subordinated debentures contain provisions that would automatically suspend the payment of preferred stock dividends and junior subordinated debenture interest payments if metlife, inc. fails to meet certain tests ( trigger events ) at specified times, although in such cases metlife would be permitted to make the payments if it were able to utilize the alternative payment mechanism described below. as a result of the suspension of these payments, the dividend stopper provisions would come into effect. a trigger event would occur if the rbc ratio of metlife's largest u.s. insurance subsidiaries in the aggregate (as defined in the applicable instrument) were to be less than 175% of the company action level based on the subsidiaries' prior year annual financial statements filed (generally around march 1) with state insurance commissioners. a trigger event would also occur if, at the end of a quarter, consolidated gaap net income for the four-quarter period ending two quarters before such quarter-end is zero or less and adjusted shareholders' equity (as defined in the applicable instrument), as of such quarter-end and the end of the quarter two quarters before such quarter-end, declined by 10% or more from its level 10 quarters before such quarter-end. the trigger event would continue until there is no longer a trigger event at the specified time, and adjusted shareholders' equity is no longer 10% or more below its level at the beginning of each measurement period described above that is associated with a trigger event. in order to use the alternative payment mechanism referred to above to declare and pay preferred stock dividends or interest on junior subordinated debentures, metlife must sell common stock during the 90 days preceding the dividend declaration date or sell common stock or certain kinds of warrants to purchase common stock during the 180 days prior to the interest payment date, make dividend or interest payments not in excess of the net proceeds of these sales, and satisfy other specified conditions. dividends on our preferred stock are subject to declaration by our board of directors in addition to the provisions described above that prevent us from declaring and paying dividends on our preferred stock, dividends on our preferred stock are subject to declaration each quarter by our board of directors. if our board of directors does not declare dividends on the preferred stock for any quarterly dividend period, the dividend stopper provisions in our preferred stock would prevent us from repurchasing or paying dividends on our common stock for that period. optional deferral of interest on the junior subordinated debentures the junior subordinated debentures provide that metlife may, at its option and provided that certain conditions are met, defer payment of interest without giving rise to an event of default for periods of up to 10 years (although after five years metlife, inc. would be obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to sell equity securities to raise proceeds to pay the interest), with no limitation on the number of deferral periods that metlife, inc. may begin so long as all accrued and unpaid interest is paid with respect to prior deferral periods. if metlife, inc. were to elect to defer payments of interest, the dividend stopper provisions in the junior subordinated debentures would thus prevent metlife, inc. from repurchasing or paying dividends on its common stock or other capital stock (including the preferred stock) during the period of deferral, subject to exceptions. see note 16 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about these restrictions. 63 table of contents as a holding company, metlife, inc. depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends, a major component of holding company free cash flow metlife, inc. is a holding company for its insurance and financial subsidiaries and does not have any significant operations of its own. dividends from its subsidiaries and permitted payments to it under its tax sharing agreement with its subsidiaries are its principal sources of cash to meet its obligations and to pay preferred and common stock dividends. if the cash metlife, inc. receives from its subsidiaries is insufficient for it to fund its debt service and other holding company obligations, metlife, inc. may be required to raise cash through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of additional equity or the sale of assets. the payment of dividends and other distributions to metlife, inc. by its u.s. insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. in general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits require insurance regulatory approval. in addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of dividends or other payments by its insurance subsidiaries to metlife, inc. if they determine that the payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. the payment of dividends and other distributions by insurance companies is also influenced by business conditions and rating agency considerations. see business regulation u.s. regulation insurance regulation and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources metlife, inc. liquidity and capital sources dividends from subsidiaries. see also regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or advances by our foreign subsidiaries and branches to metlife, inc. could be subject to taxation, insurance regulatory or other restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdiction in which such foreign subsidiaries operate. see business regulation international regulation and risks related to our business our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability. dividends from operating subsidiaries are a major component of holding company free cash flow. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations non-gaap and other financial disclosures. if metlife, inc.'s operating subsidiaries were unable to make expected dividend payments to metlife, inc., we may be unable to meet our free cash flow goals and our ability to distribute cash to shareholders could be adversely affected. operational risks our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business our enterprise risk management is designed to mitigate material risks and loss to the company. we develop and periodically update our risk management policies and procedures to reflect ongoing review of our risks and expect to continue to do so in the future. nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not be comprehensive and may not identify every risk to which we are exposed. many of our methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior to model or project potential future exposure. models used by our business are based on assumptions and projections. these models may not operate properly or input and assumptions may be inaccurate. as a result, these methods may not fully predict future exposures, which can be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate. other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. this information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. in addition, more extensive and perhaps different risk management policies and procedures might have to be implemented under pending regulations. see business regulation u.s. regulation regulation as a non-bank sifi, business regulation international regulation global systemically important insurers and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio and the level of claim losses we incur the continued threat of terrorism, both within the u.s. and abroad, ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility in global financial markets and result in loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. the value of assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the credit and equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. companies in which we maintain investments may suffer losses as a result of financial, commercial or economic disruptions and such disruptions might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or principal on their securities or mortgage loans. terrorist actions also could disrupt our operations centers in the u.s. or abroad and result in higher than anticipated claims under our insurance policies. see economic environment and capital markets-related risks if difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally persist, they may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. 64 table of contents the failure in cyber- or other information security systems, as well as the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning, could result in a loss or disclosure of confidential information, damage to our reputation and impairment of our ability to conduct business effectively our business is highly dependent upon the effective operation of our computer systems. we rely on these systems throughout our business for a variety of functions, including processing claims and applications, providing information to customers and distributors, performing actuarial analyses and maintaining financial records. we also retain confidential and proprietary information on our computer systems and we rely on sophisticated technologies to maintain the security of that information. our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access, cyberattacks or other computer-related penetrations. while, to date, metlife has not experienced a material breach of cybersecurity, administrative and technical controls and other preventive actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber-incidents and protect our information technology may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems. in the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, epidemic, industrial accident, blackout, computer virus, terrorist attack, cyberattack or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial position, particularly if those problems affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data. in addition, in the event that a significant number of our managers were unavailable following a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. these interruptions also may interfere with our suppliers' ability to provide goods and services and our employees' ability to perform their job responsibilities. the failure of our computer systems and/or our disaster recovery plans for any reason could cause significant interruptions in our operations and result in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to our customers. such a failure could harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions and legal claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. although we conduct due diligence, negotiate contractual provisions and, in many cases, conduct periodic reviews of our vendors, distributors, and other third-parties that provide operational or information technology services to us to confirm compliance with metlife's information security standards, the failure of such third-parties' computer systems and/or their disaster recovery plans for any reason might cause significant interruptions in our operations and result in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to our customers. such a failure could harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions and legal claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. while we maintain cyber liability insurance that provides both third-party liability and first party liability coverages, our insurance may not be sufficient to protect us against all losses. metlife, inc. and its subsidiaries maintain a primary cybersecurity and privacy liability insurance policy with a limit of $15 million, and have additional coverage for cybersecurity and privacy liability available under blended professional liability excess coverage policies with a total limit of $210 million. our associates may take excessive risks which could negatively affect our financial condition and business as an insurance enterprise, we are in the business of accepting certain risks. the associates who conduct our business, including executive officers and other members of management, sales managers, investment professionals, product managers, sales agents, and other associates, do so in part by making decisions and choices that involve exposing us to risk. these include decisions such as setting underwriting guidelines and standards, product design and pricing, determining what assets to purchase for investment and when to sell them, which business opportunities to pursue, and other decisions. we endeavor, in the design and implementation of our compensation programs and practices, to avoid giving our associates incentives to take excessive risks; however, associates may take such risks regardless of the structure of our compensation programs and practices. similarly, although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor associates' business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks, and to prevent employee misconduct, these controls and procedures may not be effective. if our associates take excessive risks, the impact of those risks could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and business operations. 65 table of contents general risks metlife, inc.'s board of directors may influence the outcome of stockholder votes on many matters due to the voting provisions of the metlife policyholder trust under the plan, we established the metlife policyholder trust to hold the shares of metlife, inc. common stock allocated to eligible policyholders not receiving cash or policy credits under the plan. as of february 22, 2016, the trust held 170,131,613 shares, or 15.5%, of the outstanding shares of metlife, inc. common stock. because of voting provisions of the trust and the number of shares held by it, the trust may affect the outcome of matters brought to a stockholder vote. except on votes regarding certain fundamental corporate actions described below, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held in the trust in accordance with the recommendations given by metlife, inc.'s board of directors to its stockholders or, if the board gives no such recommendations, as directed by the board. as a result of the voting provisions of the trust, the board of directors may be able to influence the outcome of votes on matters submitted to a vote of stockholders, excluding certain fundamental corporate actions, so long as the trust holds a substantial number of shares of common stock. if the vote relates to fundamental corporate actions specified in the trust, the trustee will solicit instructions from the trust beneficiaries and vote all shares held in the trust in proportion to the instructions it receives. these actions include: an election or removal of directors in which a stockholder has properly nominated one or more candidates in opposition to a nominee or nominees of metlife, inc.'s board of directors or a vote on a stockholder's proposal to oppose a board nominee for director, remove a director for cause or fill a vacancy caused by the removal of a director by stockholders, subject to certain conditions; a merger or consolidation, a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the assets, or a recapitalization or dissolution, of metlife, inc., in each case requiring a vote of stockholders under applicable delaware law; any transaction that would result in an exchange or conversion of shares of common stock held by the trust for cash, securities or other property; and any proposal requiring metlife, inc.'s board of directors to amend or redeem the rights under metlife, inc.'s stockholder rights plan, other than a proposal with respect to which we have received advice of nationally-recognized legal counsel to the effect that the proposal is not a proper subject for stockholder action under delaware law. metlife, inc. does not currently have a stockholder rights plan. if a vote concerns any of these fundamental corporate actions, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held by the trust in proportion to the instructions it received, which will give disproportionate weight to the instructions actually given by trust beneficiaries. the metlife policyholder trust agreement provides that we may terminate the trust once the percentage of outstanding shares held in the trust falls to 25%. the winding up of the trust must commence 90 days after we provide the trustee with notice that the percentage of outstanding shares held in the trust is 10% or less. in connection with any termination of the trust, all of the shares of common stock then held in the trust will need to be distributed to the respective trust beneficiaries, unless we offer to purchase all or a portion of such trust shares. in connection with the termination of the trust and such a distribution, we may incur costs related to regulatory filings, mailings to trust beneficiaries or others, and costs related to an increase in the number of shareholders, which may include increased mailing and proxy solicitation expenses. after such a distribution, the addition of the respective trust beneficiaries to our shareholder base with full voting rights may have a significant impact on matters brought to a stockholder vote and other aspects of our corporate governance. changes in accounting standards issued by the financial accounting standards board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements our financial statements are subject to the application of gaap, which is periodically revised and/or expanded. accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the financial accounting standards board (the fasb ). the impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in our reports filed with the sec. see note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. an assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and official positions of the fasb are determined only after extensive due process and deliberations. therefore, the effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. the required adoption of future accounting standards could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, including on our net income. 66 table of contents changes in our assumptions regarding the discount rate, expected rate of return, mortality rates and expected increase in compensation used for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability we determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on our best estimates of future plan experience. these assumptions are reviewed regularly and include discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets, mortality rates, expected increases in compensation levels and expected medical inflation. changes in these assumptions may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. see note 18 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for details on how changes in these assumptions would affect plan costs. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims we rely on a combination of contractual rights with third parties and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. although we endeavor to protect our rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. we may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. this would represent a diversion of resources that may be significant and our efforts may not prove successful. the inability to secure or protect our intellectual property assets could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete with other insurers and financial institutions. in addition, we may be subject to claims by third parties for (i) patent, trademark or copyright infringement, (ii) breach of patent, trademark or copyright license usage rights, or (iii) misappropriation of trade secrets. any such claims or resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability for damages. if we were found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party patent or other intellectual property right, we could in some circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or from utilizing and benefiting from certain patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties or implement a costly alternative. any of these scenarios could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may be unable to attract and retain sales representatives for our products we must attract and retain productive sales representatives to sell our insurance, annuities and investment products. insurers compete for sales representatives with demonstrated ability. in addition, there is competition for representatives with other types of financial services firms, such as independent broker-dealers. we compete with other financial services companies for sales representatives primarily on the basis of product features, support services, compensation and financial position. we continue to undertake several initiatives to enhance the efficiency and production of our existing sales force. these initiatives may not succeed in attracting and retaining new agents. sales of individual insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining highly qualified and productive agents. see business competition. state laws, federal laws, our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws may delay, deter or prevent takeovers and business combinations that stockholders might consider in their best interests state laws, federal laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. for instance, such restrictions may prevent stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of metlife, inc.'s common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of metlife, inc.'s common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. 67 table of contents any person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would face various regulatory obstacles, including: applicable state insurance laws and regulations may delay or impede a business combination involving us by prohibiting an entity from acquiring control (generally presumed to exist at direct or indirect ownership of 10% or more of voting stock) of an insurance company domiciled in the united states without the prior approval of the domestic insurance regulator. many foreign jurisdictions in which we operate have similar regulatory approval requirements. dodd-frank provisions that restrict or impede consolidations, mergers and acquisitions by systemically significant firms. see business regulation u.s. regulation regulation as a non-bank sifi enhanced prudential standards for non-bank sifis. provisions of the investment company act that require approval by the contract owners of our variable contracts in order to effectuate a change of control of any affiliated investment adviser to a mutual fund underlying our variable contracts. finra approval requirements for a change of control of any finra registered broker-dealer that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of metlife, inc. provisions of the delaware general corporation law may affect the ability of an interested stockholder (the owner of 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation) to engage in certain business combinations for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. in addition, metlife, inc.'s certificate of incorporation and by-laws also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests or may otherwise adversely affect prevailing market prices for metlife, inc.'s common stock. these provisions include: a prohibition on the calling of special meetings or action by written consent by stockholders; and advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates to the board of directors and stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings. a majority of the combined voting power of the outstanding shares entitled to vote generally in the election of directors may amend metlife, inc.'s certificate of incorporation or by-laws. this may allow shareholders to change the company's corporate governance and, therefore, make it more difficult for the board of directors to protect shareholders' interests, e.g., if they are presented with an acquisition proposal that undervalues the company. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 177 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management we have developed an integrated process for managing risk, which we conduct through multiple board and senior management committees (financial and non-financial) within the grm, alm unit, treasury department and investments department. the risk committee structure is designed to provide a consolidated enterprise-wide assessment and management of risk. the erc is responsible for reviewing all material risks to the enterprise and deciding on actions, if necessary, in the event risks exceed desired tolerances, taking into consideration industry best practices and the current environment to resolve or mitigate those risks. additional committees at the metlife, inc. and subsidiary insurance company level that manage capital and risk positions, approve alm strategies and establish corporate business standards, report to the erc. global risk management independent from the lines of business, the centralized grm, led by the cro, collaborates and coordinates across all committees to ensure that all material risks are properly identified, measured, aggregated and reported across the company. the cro reports to the ceo and is primarily responsible for maintaining and communicating the company's enterprise risk policies and for monitoring and analyzing all material risks. grm considers and monitors a full range of risks against the company's solvency, liquidity, earnings, business operations and reputation. grm's primary responsibilities consist of: implementing a corporate risk framework, which outlines our enterprise approach for managing risk; developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring, monitoring and controlling those risks identified in the corporate risk framework; establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels; deploying capital on an economic basis; recommending capital allocations on an economic capital basis; and reporting to (i) the finance and risk committee of metlife, inc.'s board of directors; (ii) the investment committee of metlife, inc.'s board of directors; and (iii) the financial and non-financial senior management committees on various aspects of risk. asset/liability management we actively manage our assets using an approach that balances quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity, concentration and investment return. the goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income tax, risk-adjusted investment income and risk-adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are reasonably managed on a cash flow and duration basis. the alm process is the shared responsibility of the alm unit, grm, the portfolio management unit, and the senior members of the business segments and is governed by the alm committees. the alm committees' duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios, establishing investment guidelines and limits and providing oversight of the alm process on a periodic basis. the directives of the alm committees are carried out and monitored through alm working groups which are set up to manage by product type. generally, our alm steering committee oversees the activities of the underlying alm committees. the alm steering committee reports to the erc. we establish target asset portfolios for each major insurance product, which represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund our liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. the alm working groups monitor these strategies through regular review of portfolio metrics, such as effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality. 177 table of contents market risk exposures we regularly analyze our exposure to interest rate, equity market price and foreign currency exchange rate risks. as a result of that analysis, we have determined that the estimated fair values of certain assets and liabilities are materially exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and changes in the equity markets. we have exposure to market risk through our insurance operations and investment activities. for purposes of this disclosure, market risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets. interest rates our exposure to interest rate changes results most significantly from our holdings of fixed maturity securities, as well as our interest rate sensitive liabilities. the fixed maturity securities include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities and abs, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium- and long-term interest rates. the interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include debt, policyholder account balances related to certain investment type contracts, and net embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits which have the same type of interest rate exposure (medium- and long-term interest rates) as fixed maturity securities. we employ product design, pricing and alm strategies to reduce the potential effects of interest rate movements. product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products and the ability to reset crediting rates for certain products. alm strategies include the use of derivatives and duration mismatch limits. see risk factors economic environment and capital markets-related risks we are exposed to significant global financial and capital markets risks which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and may cause our net investment income to vary from period to period. foreign currency exchange rates our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar results from our holdings in non-u.s. dollar denominated fixed maturity and equity securities, mortgage loans, and certain liabilities, as well as through our investments in foreign subsidiaries. the principal currencies that create foreign currency exchange rate risk in our investment portfolios and liabilities are the euro, the japanese yen and the british pound. selectively, we use u.s. dollar assets to support certain long duration foreign currency liabilities. through our investments in foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures, we are primarily exposed to the japanese yen, the euro, the polish zloty, the australian dollar, the mexican peso, the chilean peso and the korean won. in addition to hedging with foreign currency swaps, forwards and options, local surplus in some countries is held entirely or in part in u.s. dollar assets which further minimizes exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. we have matched much of our foreign currency liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency assets, thereby reducing our risk to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. see risk factors risks related to our business fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our profitability. equity market along with investments in equity securities, we have exposure to equity market risk through certain liabilities that involve long-term guarantees on equity performance such as net embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits and certain policyholder account balances. we manage this risk on an integrated basis with other risks through our alm strategies, including the dynamic hedging of certain variable annuity guarantee benefits, as well as reinsurance, in order to limit losses, minimize exposure to large risks, and provide additional capacity for future growth. we also manage equity market risk exposure in our investment portfolio through the use of derivatives. equity exposures associated with other limited partnership interests are excluded from this discussion as they are not considered financial instruments under gaap. management of market risk exposures we use a variety of strategies to manage interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market risk, including the use of derivatives. 178 table of contents interest rate risk management to manage interest rate risk, we analyze interest rate risk using various models, including multi-scenario cash flow projection models that forecast cash flows of the liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivatives. these projections involve evaluating the potential gain or loss on most of our in-force business under various increasing and decreasing interest rate environments. the department of financial services regulations require that we perform some of these analyses annually as part of our review of the sufficiency of our regulatory reserves. for several of our legal entities, we maintain segmented operating and surplus asset portfolios for the purpose of alm and the allocation of investment income to product lines. for each segment, invested assets greater than or equal to the gaap liabilities and any non-invested assets allocated to the segment are maintained, with any excess allocated to corporate &amp; other. the business segments may reflect differences in legal entity, statutory line of business and any product market characteristic which may drive a distinct investment strategy with respect to duration, liquidity or credit quality of the invested assets. certain smaller entities make use of unsegmented general accounts for which the investment strategy reflects the aggregate characteristics of liabilities in those entities. we measure relative sensitivities of the value of our assets and liabilities to changes in key assumptions utilizing internal models. these models reflect specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting rates. in addition, these models include asset cash flow projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage loan prepayments and defaults. common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, are also used to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and liability values to changes in interest rates. in computing the duration of liabilities, consideration is given to all policyholder guarantees and to how we intend to set indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or dividends. each asset portfolio has a duration target based on the liability duration and the investment objectives of that portfolio. where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity of available assets, as is the case with certain retirement and group products, we may support such liabilities with equity investments, derivatives or interest rate curve mismatch strategies. foreign currency exchange rate risk management we assume foreign currency exchange rate risk primarily in three ways: investments in foreign subsidiaries, purchases of foreign currency denominated investments and the sale of certain insurance products. the grm's foreign exchange committee, in coordination with the treasury department, is responsible for managing our exposure to investments in foreign subsidiaries. exposure limits are established by the treasury department and monitored by grm. the investments department manages such exposure. the investments department is responsible for managing the exposure to foreign currency denominated investments. exposure limits to unhedged foreign currency investments are incorporated into the standing authorizations granted to management by the board of directors and are reported to the board of directors on a periodic basis. management of each of the company's segments, with oversight from the foreign exchange committee, is responsible for establishing limits and managing any foreign currency exchange rate exposure caused by the sale or issuance of insurance products. we use foreign currency swaps, forwards and options to mitigate the liability exposure, risk of loss and financial statement volatility associated with our investments in foreign subsidiaries, foreign currency denominated fixed income investments and the sale of certain insurance products. equity market risk management the issuance of variable annuities exposes us to market risk. this risk is managed by our alm unit in partnership with the investments department. equity market risk is also assumed through our investment in equity securities and is managed by our investments department. we use derivatives to mitigate our equity exposure both in certain liability guarantees such as variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefit and equity securities. these derivatives include exchange-traded equity futures, equity index options contracts and equity variance swaps. we also employ reinsurance to manage these exposures. 179 table of contents hedging activities we use derivative contracts primarily to hedge a wide range of risks including interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and equity market risk. derivative hedges are designed to reduce risk on an economic basis while considering their impact on accounting results and gaap and statutory capital. our derivative hedge programs vary depending on the type of risk being hedged. some hedge programs are asset or liability specific while others are portfolio hedges that reduce risk related to a group of liabilities or assets. our use of derivatives by major hedge programs is as follows: risks related to living guarantee benefits we use a wide range of derivative contracts to mitigate the risk associated with variable annuity living guarantee benefits. these derivatives include equity and interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, currency futures/forwards, equity indexed options and interest rate option contracts and equity variance swaps. minimum interest rate guarantees for certain liability contracts, we provide the contractholder a guaranteed minimum interest rate. these contracts include certain fixed annuities and other insurance liabilities. we purchase interest rate floors to reduce risk associated with these liability guarantees. reinvestment risk in long duration liability contracts derivatives are used to hedge interest rate risk related to certain long duration liability contracts. hedges include interest rate swaps and swaptions. foreign currency exchange rate risk we use currency swaps, forwards and options to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risk. these hedges primarily swap foreign currency denominated bonds, investments in foreign subsidiaries or equity market exposures to u.s. dollars. general alm hedging strategies in the ordinary course of managing our asset/liability risks, we use interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, interest rate floors and inflation swaps. these hedges are designed to reduce interest rate risk or inflation risk related to the existing assets or liabilities or related to expected future cash flows. risk measurement: sensitivity analysis we measure market risk related to our market sensitive assets and liabilities based on changes in interest rates, equity market prices and foreign currency exchange rates utilizing a sensitivity analysis. this analysis estimates the potential changes in estimated fair value based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, equity market prices and foreign currency exchange rates. we believe that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the near term. in performing the analysis summarized below, we used market rates at december 31, 2015 . the sensitivity analysis separately calculates each of our market risk exposures (interest rate, equity market and foreign currency exchange rate) relating to our trading and non-trading assets and liabilities. we modeled the impact of changes in market rates and prices on the estimated fair values of our market sensitive assets and liabilities as follows: the net present values of our interest rate sensitive exposures resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates; the u.s. dollar equivalent estimated fair values of our foreign currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in foreign currency exchange rates; and the estimated fair value of our equity positions due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity market prices. the sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as predictive of our future financial performance. we cannot ensure that our actual losses in any particular period will not exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. limitations related to this sensitivity analysis include: the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgage loans; for the derivatives that qualify as hedges, the impact on reported earnings may be materially different from the change in market values; the analysis excludes liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts and real estate holdings; and the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains unchanged throughout the period. accordingly, we use such models as tools and not as substitutes for the experience and judgment of our management. based on our analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and prices, we have determined that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the estimated fair value of certain assets and liabilities from interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market exposures. 180 table of contents the table below illustrates the potential loss in estimated fair value for each market risk exposure of our market sensitive assets and liabilities at: december 31, 2015 (in millions) non-trading: interest rate risk $ 5,833 foreign currency exchange rate risk $ 5,663 equity market risk $ 19 trading: interest rate risk $ 2 181 table of contents the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our trading and non-trading interest sensitive financial instruments by type of asset or liability at: december 31, 2015 notional amount estimated fair value (1) assuming a 10% increase in the yield curve (in millions) assets fixed maturity securities $ 351,402 $ (5,728 ) equity securities $ 3,321 fair value option and trading securities: actively traded securities $ 404 (5 ) fair value option general account securities 627 (5 ) total fair value option and trading securities $ 1,031 (10 ) mortgage loans $ 68,539 (476 ) policy loans $ 13,351 (140 ) short-term investments $ 9,299 (12 ) other invested assets $ 699 cash and cash equivalents $ 12,752 accrued investment income $ 3,988 premiums, reinsurance and other receivables $ 2,905 (161 ) other assets $ 267 (4 ) net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) $ 391 (20 ) total assets $ (6,551 ) liabilities (3) policyholder account balances $ 125,061 $ 547 payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions $ 36,871 short-term debt $ 100 long-term debt $ 19,360 389 collateral financing arrangements $ 3,899 junior subordinated debt securities $ 4,029 105 other liabilities: trading liabilities $ 153 3 other $ 2,250 133 net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) $ 935 470 total liabilities $ 1,647 derivative instruments interest rate swaps $ 97,054 $ 5,554 $ (637 ) interest rate floors $ 23,837 $ 263 (24 ) interest rate caps $ 68,928 $ 102 35 interest rate futures $ 5,808 $ (3 ) (14 ) interest rate options $ 30,234 $ 1,147 (205 ) interest rate forwards $ 148 $ 24 (7 ) synthetic gics $ 4,216 $ foreign currency swaps $ 36,896 $ (262 ) (22 ) foreign currency forwards $ 17,325 $ (67 ) (8 ) currency futures $ 930 $ currency options $ 17,159 $ 446 (14 ) credit default swaps $ 12,181 $ 59 equity futures $ 7,206 $ 45 (1 ) equity index options $ 55,682 $ 501 (36 ) equity variance swaps $ 23,437 $ (441 ) 2 total rate of return swaps $ 3,803 $ (11 ) total derivative instruments $ (931 ) net change $ (5,835 ) _____________ 182 table of contents (1) separate account assets and liabilities and contractholder-directed unit-linked investments and associated policyholder account balances, which are interest rate sensitive, are not included herein as any interest rate risk is borne by the contractholder. mortgage loans, fvo and trading securities and long-term debt exclude $ 172 million , $ 12 million and $ 60 million , respectively, related to cses. see note 8 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding cses. (2) embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. (3) excludes $ 206.1 billion of liabilities, at carrying value, pursuant to insurance contracts reported within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances. these liabilities would economically offset a significant portion of the net change in fair value of our financial instruments resulting from a 10% increase in the yield curve. interest rate risk increased by $601 million, or 11%, to $5.8 billion at december 31, 2015 from $5.2 billion at december 31, 2014 . this change was primarily due to an increase of $809 million due to increases in interest rates across the u.s. treasury curve coupled with changes in durations. this increase was partially offset by a decrease in the asset base of $232 million. 183 table of contents the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our portfolio due to a 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates by type of asset or liability at: december 31, 2015 notional amount estimated fair value (1) assuming a 10% increase in the foreign exchange rate (in millions) assets fixed maturity securities $ 351,402 $ (7,879 ) equity securities $ 3,321 (95 ) fair value option and trading securities: actively traded securities $ 404 fair value option general account securities 627 (63 ) total fair value option and trading securities $ 1,031 (63 ) mortgage loans $ 68,539 (703 ) policy loans $ 13,351 (144 ) short-term investments $ 9,299 (95 ) other invested assets $ 699 (75 ) cash and cash equivalents $ 12,752 (441 ) accrued investment income $ 3,988 (82 ) premiums, reinsurance and other receivables $ 2,905 (62 ) other assets $ 267 (6 ) net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) $ 391 (12 ) total assets $ (9,657 ) liabilities (3) policyholder account balances $ 125,061 $ 3,258 payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions $ 36,871 101 long-term debt $ 19,360 127 other liabilities $ 2,403 13 net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) $ 935 111 total liabilities $ 3,610 derivative instruments interest rate swaps $ 97,054 $ 5,554 $ (35 ) interest rate floors $ 23,837 $ 263 interest rate caps $ 68,928 $ 102 interest rate futures $ 5,808 $ (3 ) (1 ) interest rate options $ 30,234 $ 1,147 (46 ) interest rate forwards $ 148 $ 24 synthetic gics $ 4,216 $ foreign currency swaps $ 36,896 $ (262 ) 362 foreign currency forwards $ 17,325 $ (67 ) (188 ) currency futures $ 930 $ (91 ) currency options $ 17,159 $ 446 399 credit default swaps $ 12,181 $ 59 (2 ) equity futures $ 7,206 $ 45 (1 ) equity index options $ 55,682 $ 501 (14 ) equity variance swaps $ 23,437 $ (441 ) 1 total rate of return swaps $ 3,803 $ (11 ) total derivative instruments $ 384 net change $ (5,663 ) ______________ 184 table of contents (1) does not necessarily represent those financial instruments solely subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk. separate account assets and liabilities and contractholder-directed unit-linked investments and associated policyholder account balances, which are foreign currency exchange rate sensitive, are not included herein as any foreign currency exchange rate risk is borne by the contractholder. mortgage loans, fvo and trading securities and long-term debt exclude $ 172 million , $ 12 million and $ 60 million , respectively, related to cses. see note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for information regarding cses. (2) embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. (3) excludes $ 206.1 billion of liabilities, at carrying value, pursuant to insurance contracts reported within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances. these liabilities would economically offset a significant portion of the net change in fair value of our financial instruments resulting from a 10% increase in foreign currency exchange rates. foreign currency exchange rate risk decreased by $93 million, or 2%, to $5.7 billion at december 31, 2015 from $5.8 billion at december 31, 2014 . this change was primarily due to a net decrease in exchange risk relating to policyholder account balances, fixed maturity securities and the use of derivatives by the company. the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our portfolio due to a 10% change in equity by type of asset or liability at: december 31, 2015 notional amount estimated fair value (1) assuming a 10% increase in equity prices (in millions) assets equity securities $ 3,321 $ 332 net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) $ 391 (20 ) total assets 312 liabilities policyholder account balances $ 125,061 net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) $ 935 979 total liabilities $ 979 derivative instruments interest rate swaps $ 97,054 $ 5,554 $ interest rate floors $ 23,837 $ 263 interest rate caps $ 68,928 $ 102 interest rate futures $ 5,808 $ (3 ) interest rate options $ 30,234 $ 1,147 interest rate forwards $ 148 $ 24 synthetic gics $ 4,216 $ foreign currency swaps $ 36,896 $ (262 ) foreign currency forwards $ 17,325 $ (67 ) currency futures $ 930 $ currency options $ 17,159 $ 446 credit default swaps $ 12,181 $ 59 equity futures $ 7,206 $ 45 (687 ) equity index options $ 55,682 $ 501 (258 ) equity variance swaps $ 23,437 $ (441 ) 15 total rate of return swaps $ 3,803 $ (11 ) (380 ) total derivative instruments $ (1,310 ) net change $ (19 ) ______________ (1) does not necessarily represent those financial instruments solely subject to equity price risk. additionally, separate account assets and liabilities and contractholder-directed unit-linked investments and associated policyholder account balances, which are equity market sensitive, are not included herein as any equity market risk is borne by the contractholder. (2) embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. 185 table of contents equity price risk decreased by $59 million to $19 million at december 31, 2015 from $78 million at december 31, 2014 . this decrease was primarily due to the impact of embedded derivatives offset by the use of derivatives by the company. 186 table of contentsrisk factors 41 risk factors economic environment and capital markets-related risks if difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally persist, they may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations our business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally. stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in financial asset classes or various markets, including global capital markets, can have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and our insurance liabilities are sensitive to changing market factors. global market factors, including interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, derivative prices and availability, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, deflation and inflation, all affect our financial condition, as well as the volume, profitability and results of our business operations and our ability to receive dividends from our insurance subsidiaries and meet our obligations at metlife, inc., either directly or by virtue of their impact on the business and economic environment generally and on general levels of economic activity, employment and customer behavior specifically. disruptions in one market or asset class can also spread to other markets or asset classes. upheavals in the financial markets can also affect our financial condition (including our liquidity and capital levels) as a result of mismatched impacts on the value of our assets and our liabilities. while our diversified business mix and geographically diverse business operations partially mitigate these risks, correlation across regions, countries and global market factors may reduce the benefits of diversification. at times throughout the past several years, volatile conditions have characterized financial markets. significant market volatility, and government actions taken in response, may exacerbate some of the risks we face. concerns about the political and/or economic stability in the u.k., italy, mexico, turkey and puerto rico have recently contributed to global market volatility. this market volatility has affected the performance of various asset classes at various times, and it could continue. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment. events following the u.k.'s referendum on june 23, 2016 and the uncertainties, including foreign currency exchange risks, associated with its potential withdrawal from the eu, have contributed to market volatility, both in the united states and beyond. such events and uncertainties could contribute to weakening gross domestic product ( gdp ) growth, primarily in the u.k. and europe. the magnitude and longevity of the potential negative economic impacts would depend on the detailed agreements reached by the u.k. and eu as a result of the exit negotiations and negotiations regarding trade and other arrangements. in addition, the impact on global capital markets, the economy and metlife of the transition occurring in the united states government and the priorities of the trump administration is uncertain. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends financial and economic environment. any of these factors could have significant adverse effects on the economy and financial markets generally. 41 table of contents to the extent these uncertain financial market conditions persist, our revenues, reserves and net investment income, as well as the demand for certain of our products, are likely to remain under pressure. similarly, sustained periods of low interest rates and risk asset returns could reduce income from our investment portfolio, increase our liabilities for claims and future benefits, and increase the cost of risk transfer measures such as hedging, causing our profit margins to erode as a result of reduced income from our investment portfolio and increase in insurance liabilities. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends impact of a sustained low interest rate environment. also, in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur significant capital and/or operating losses due to, among other reasons, losses incurred in our general account and as a result of the impact on us of guarantees, including increases in liabilities, capital maintenance obligations and/or collateral requirements associated with our affiliated reinsurers and other similar arrangements. even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to sustained periods of low market returns, low levels of u.s. interest rates, and/or heightened market volatility, which may also increase the cost and limit the availability of the hedging instruments and other protective measures we take to mitigate such risk, or increase the cost of our insurance liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on the statutory capital and earnings of our insurance subsidiaries, as well as impair our financial strength ratings. we are a significant writer of variable insurance products and certain other products issued through separate accounts. the account values of these products decrease as a result of declining equity markets. lower interest rates generally increase account values in the near term, but may result in lower returns in fixed income vehicles in the future. decreases in account values reduce certain fees generated by these products, cause the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs ( dac ) to accelerate, could increase the level of insurance liabilities we must carry to support such products issued with any associated guarantees and could require us to provide additional funding to our captive reinsurers. in an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. group insurance, in particular, is affected by higher unemployment rates. in addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims, adverse utilization of benefits relative to our best estimate expectations and lapses or surrenders of policies. furthermore, our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. such adverse changes in the economy could negatively affect our earnings and capitalization and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy may continue to raise the possibility of legislative, judicial, regulatory and other governmental actions. the trump administration has released a memorandum that generally delayed all pending regulations from publication in the federal register pending their review and approval by a department or agency head appointed or designated by president trump, and has issued an executive order that calls for a comprehensive review of dodd-frank. in addition, the trump administration has discussed potentially putting in place a tax on goods and services imported into the united states and the intention to renegotiate certain international trade agreements with other countries, including the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ). we cannot predict with certainty what other proposals may be made or what legislation or regulations may be introduced or enacted, or what impact any such legislation or regulations may have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. see regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth, and risks related to our business competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability below. adverse global capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, our access to capital and our cost of capital the global capital and credit markets may be subject to periods of extreme volatility. disruptions in capital markets could cause our liquidity and credit capacity to be limited. we need liquidity to pay claims and other operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock, provide our subsidiaries with cash or collateral, maintain our securities lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities. without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail our operations and limit our investments, and our business and financial results may suffer. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources. 42 table of contents in the event global capital market or other conditions have an adverse impact on our capital and liquidity, or our stress-testing indicates that such conditions could have such an impact beyond expectations and our current resources do not satisfy our needs or regulatory requirements, we may have to seek additional financing. the availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as the then current market conditions, regulatory considerations, availability of credit to us and the financial services industry generally, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and the perception of our customers and lenders regarding our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large operating or investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to a market downturn. similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient and, in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. our liquidity requirements may change if, among other things, we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral on short notice under securities lending or derivatives agreements or are required to post collateral or make payments related to declines in market value of specified counterparty credit risk. see investments-related risks should the need arise, we may have difficulty selling certain holdings in our investment portfolio or in our securities lending program in a timely manner and realizing full value given their illiquid nature, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments securities lending an d management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital needed to operate our business, most significantly in our insurance operations. such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities, satisfy regulatory capital requirements, and access the capital necessary to grow our business. see regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. as a result, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue different types of securities than we would have otherwise, less effectively deploy such capital, issue shorter tenor securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. we are exposed to significant global financial and capital markets risks which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and may cause our net investment income to vary from period to period we are exposed to significant global financial and capital markets risks, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, market volatility, global economic performance in general, the performance of specific obligors, including governments, included in our investment portfolio, derivatives and other factors outside our control. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends financial and economic environment and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment. interest rate risk some of our products, principally traditional life, universal life, fixed annuities and guaranteed interest contracts, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our investment margin or spread, or the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts in our general account and the rate of return we earn on general account investments intended to support obligations under such contracts. our spread is a key component of our net income. in a low interest rate environment, we may be forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, which will reduce our investment margin. moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the fixed income securities and commercial, agricultural or residential mortgage loans in our investment portfolio with greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates, thereby exacerbating this risk. although lowering interest crediting rates can help offset decreases in spreads on some products, our ability to lower these rates is limited to the portion of our in-force product portfolio that has adjustable interest crediting rates, and could be limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. as a result, our spread could decrease or potentially become negative, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. see risks related to our business guarantees within certain of our products may decrease our earnings, increase the volatility of our results, result in higher risk management costs and expose us to increased counterparty risk. 43 table of contents our expectation for future spreads is an important component in the amortization of dac and value of business acquired ( voba ). significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period and potentially negatively affecting our credit instrument covenants or rating agency assessment of our financial condition. in addition, during periods of declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be relatively more attractive investments to consumers. this could result in increased premium payments on products with flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans and increased persistency, or a higher percentage of insurance policies remaining in-force from year to year, during a period when our new investments carry lower returns. a decline in market interest rates could also reduce our return on investments that do not support particular policy obligations. during periods of sustained lower interest rates, our reserves for policy liabilities may not be sufficient to meet future policy obligations and may need to be strengthened. accordingly, declining and sustained lower interest rates may materially affect our results of operations, financial position, cash flows, and ability to take dividends from operating insurance companies, as well as significantly reduce our profitability. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends impact of a sustained low interest rate environment. as a global insurance company, we are also affected by the monetary policies of the federal reserve board and of central banks around the world. actions resulting from these policies may have an impact on the pricing levels of risk-bearing investments, and may adversely impact the income we earn on our investments or the level of product sales. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment. increases in interest rates could also negatively affect our profitability. in periods of rapidly increasing interest rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, the investments in our general account with higher yielding investments needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep interest rate sensitive products competitive. we, therefore, may have to accept a lower credit spread and, thus, lower profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of existing contracts and related assets. in addition, policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals may tend to increase as policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns as interest rates rise. this process may result in cash outflows requiring that we sell investments at a time when the prices of those investments are adversely affected by the increase in interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses. unanticipated withdrawals, terminations and substantial policy amendments may cause us to accelerate the amortization of dac and voba, which reduces net income and potentially negatively affects our credit instrument covenants and rating agency assessment of our financial condition, and may also cause us to accelerate the amortization of negative voba, which increases net income. an increase in interest rates could also have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the estimated fair values of the fixed income securities that comprise a substantial portion of our investment portfolio. finally, an increase in interest rates could result in decreased fee income associated with a decline in the value of variable annuity account balances invested in fixed income funds. however, this increase in interest rates would typically cause any guaranteed living benefits to decline in value. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends impact of a sustained low interest rate environment. we manage interest rate risk as part of our asset and liability management strategies, which include maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration that reflects the duration of our estimated liability cash flow profile. we also use derivatives to mitigate interest rate risk. although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our fixed income investments relative to our interest rate sensitive liabilities. in addition, asymmetrical and non-economic accounting may cause material changes to our net income and stockholders' equity in any given period because our non-qualified derivatives are recorded at fair value through earnings, while the related hedged items either follow an accrual-based accounting model, such as insurance liabilities, or are recorded at fair value through other comprehensive income. see note 9 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for the primary reasons why many of the company's derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, even though they may be effective economic hedges. significant volatility in the markets could cause changes in the risks set forth above which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses, derivative losses, changes in insurance liabilities, impairments, increased valuation allowances, increases in reserves for future policyholder benefits, reduced net investment income and changes in unrealized gain or loss positions. 44 table of contents credit spreads our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price volatility and cash flow variability associated with changes in such spreads. market price volatility can make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent, as was the case, for example, during the financial crisis which commenced in 2008. in such case, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period-to-period changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition and may require additional reserves. if there is a resumption of significant volatility in the markets, it could cause changes in credit spreads and defaults and a lack of pricing transparency which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments investment risks. an increase in credit spreads relative to u.s. treasury benchmarks can also adversely affect the cost of our borrowing should we need to access credit markets. equity risk our primary exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with certain of our businesses where fee income is earned based upon the estimated fair value of the assets under management. downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a material adverse effect on the revenues and investment returns from our savings and investment products and services. the retail variable annuity business in particular is highly sensitive to equity markets, and a sustained weakness or stagnation in the equity markets could decrease revenues and earnings with respect to those products. furthermore, certain of our variable annuity products offer guaranteed benefits which increase our potential benefit exposure should equity markets decline or stagnate. we use derivatives and reinsurance to mitigate the impact of such increased potential benefit exposures. we are also exposed to interest rate and equity risk based upon the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return assumptions associated with our pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. sustained declines in long-term interest rates or equity returns likely would have a negative effect on the funded status of these plans. in addition, we invest a portion of our investments in leveraged buy-out funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds. the amount and timing of net investment income from such funds tends to be uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying investments. the timing of distributions from such funds, which depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds' schedules for making distributions and their needs for cash, can be difficult to predict. as a result, the amount of net investment income from these investments can vary substantially from period to period. significant volatility could adversely impact returns and net investment income on these alternative investment classes. in addition, the estimated fair value of such investments may be impacted by downturns or volatility in equity markets. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. real estate risk our primary exposure to real estate risk relates to commercial, agricultural and residential real estate. our exposure to these risks stems from various factors, including the supply and demand of leasable commercial space, creditworthiness of tenants and partners, capital markets volatility, interest rate fluctuations, commodity prices and farm incomes, which have recently been declining. although we manage credit risk and market valuation risk for our commercial, agricultural and residential real estate assets through geographic, property type and product type diversification, as well as asset allocation, general economic conditions in the commercial, agricultural and residential real estate sectors will continue to influence the performance of these investments. these factors, which are beyond our control, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. obligor-related risks recent country specific volatility due to local economic and/or political concerns has affected the performance of certain of our investments. we have exposure to such volatility, as we maintain general account investments in such countries to support our insurance operations and related policyholder liabilities in these countries and we also have exposure through our global portfolio diversification. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends financial and economic environment and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment selected country investments. 45 table of contents our investment portfolio also contains investments in revenue bonds issued under the auspices of u.s. states and municipalities, and a limited amount of general obligation bonds of u.s. states and municipalities (collectively, state and political subdivision securities ). various u.s. states and municipalities have faced budget deficits and financial difficulties. the financial difficulties of such u.s. states and municipalities could have an adverse impact on our state and political subdivision securities and the value of our investment portfolio. fixed income securities and mortgage loans represent a significant portion of our investment portfolio. we are subject to the risk that the issuers, or guarantors, of fixed income securities and mortgage loans we own may default on principal and interest payments they owe us. we are also subject to the risk that the underlying collateral within asset-backed securities, including mortgage-backed securities, may default on principal and interest payments causing an adverse change in cash flows. the occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening mortgage or credit spreads, or other events that adversely affect the issuers, guarantors or underlying collateral of these securities and mortgage loans could cause the estimated fair value of our portfolio of fixed income securities and mortgage loans and our earnings to decline and the default rate of the fixed income securities and mortgage loans in our investment portfolio to increase. foreign currency exchange rate risks our primary foreign currency exchange rate risks are described under risks related to our business fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our profitability. changes in foreign currency exchange rates can significantly affect our net investment income in any period, and such changes can be substantial. this risk will increase if a country withdraws from the euro zone. in such case, the national currency to which such a country may revert will likely be devalued and contracts using the euro will need to be renegotiated. any such devaluation and its related consequences for our contracts and investments in any such country could be significant and materially adversely affect our operations and earnings in that country. any operations we may have in any such withdrawing country could also be materially adversely affected by legal or governmental actions related to conversion from the euro to a national currency. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. derivatives risk we use the payments we receive from counterparties pursuant to derivative instruments into which we have entered to offset future changes in the fair value of our assets and liabilities and current or future changes in cash flows. we enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including options, futures, forwards, and interest rate and credit default swaps with a number of counterparties. amounts that we expect to collect under current and future derivatives are subject to counterparty risk. our obligations under our products are not changed by our hedging activities and we are liable for our obligations even if our derivative counterparties do not pay us. such defaults could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. substantially all of our derivatives require us to pledge or receive collateral or make payments related to any decline in the net estimated fair value of such derivatives executed through a specific broker at a clearinghouse or entered into with a specific counterparty on a bilateral basis. in addition, ratings downgrades or financial difficulties of derivative counterparties may require us to utilize additional capital with respect to the impacted businesses. summary significant volatility in the markets could cause changes in interest rates, declines in equity prices, and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses, derivative losses, changes in insurance liabilities, impairments, increased valuation allowances, increases in reserves for future policyholder benefits, reduced net investment income and changes in unrealized gain or loss positions. 46 table of contents regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth our insurance operations and brokerage businesses are subject to a wide variety of insurance and other laws and regulations. additionally, dodd-frank, discussed further below, effected the most far-reaching overhaul of financial regulation in the united states in decades. however, president trump and the majority party have expressed goals to dismantle or roll back dodd-frank and president trump has issued an executive order that calls for a comprehensive review of dodd-frank in light of certain enumerated core principles of financial system regulation. we are not able to predict with certainty whether any such proposal would have a material effect on our business operations and cannot currently identify all of the risks or opportunities, if any, that may be posed to our businesses as a result of changes to, or legislative replacements for, dodd-frank. see business regulation, as supplemented by discussions of regulatory developments in our subsequently filed quarterly reports on form 10-q under the caption management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends regulatory developments. u.s. regulation insurance regulation the naic is an organization whose mission is to assist state insurance regulatory authorities in serving the public interest and achieving the insurance regulatory goals of its members, the state insurance regulatory officials. state insurance regulators may act independently or adopt regulations proposed by the naic. state insurance regulators and the naic regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, can sometimes lead to additional expense for the insurer and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in 2015, the naic commenced an initiative to study variable annuity solvency regulations, with the goal of curtailing the use of variable annuity captives. in connection with this study, the naic engaged a third-party consultant to develop recommendations in 2016 regarding reserve and capital requirements. the naic plans to ask the third-party consultant to conduct an additional study and develop new recommendations in 2017. the naic will consider the 2017 recommendations which, if adopted, would apply to insurers' existing and new business and likely would materially change the sensitivity of the balance sheet (including reserve and capital requirements) to capital markets. it is not possible to predict whether the amount of reserves or capital required to support our variable annuity contracts would increase or decrease if any such 2017 recommendations are adopted, nor is it possible to predict the extent to which any such recommendations would affect the effectiveness and design of our risk mitigation and hedging programs. furthermore, no assurances can be given as to whether any such recommendations will be adopted or to the timing of any such adoption. the naic is also studying its rbc factors for bonds, real estate and collateral pledged to support fhlb advances. it is premature to project the impact of any such adoption. the naic has also been working on the modernization of the calculation of life insurance reserves, including principle-based reserving, which became operative on january 1, 2017 in those states where it has been adopted, with a three-year phase-in period, at the option of insurance companies on a product-by-product basis, for new business. to date, principle-based reserving has been adopted by all of the states where our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, except in new york where the nydfs has publicly stated its intention to implement this approach beginning in january 2018, subject to a working group of the nydfs establishing the necessary reserves safeguards, and in massachusetts where the legislature is considering legislation in this area. we cannot predict how principle-based reserving will impact the reserves or compliance costs, if any, of our insurance subsidiaries, although after the separation, principle-based reserving will have less of an impact, given our discontinuance of retail life sales. see business regulation u.s. regulation insurance regulation naic. 47 table of contents u.s. federal regulation affecting insurance currently, the business of insurance is primarily regulated at the state level. however, dodd-frank established the fio within the department of the treasury, which has the authority to participate in the negotiations of international insurance agreements with foreign regulators for the u.s., as well as to collect information about the insurance industry and recommend prudential standards. on december 12, 2013, the fio issued a report, mandated by dodd-frank, which, among other things, urged the states to modernize and promote greater uniformity in insurance regulation. the report raised the possibility of a greater role for the federal government if states do not achieve greater uniformity in their laws and regulations. following the transition occurring in the united states government and the priorities of the trump administration, we cannot predict with certainty whether any such legislation or regulatory changes will be adopted, or what impact they will have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see business regulation u.s. regulation insurance regulation federal initiatives. federal legislation and administrative policies can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies, including policies regarding financial services regulation, securities regulation, derivatives regulation, pension regulation, health care regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. in addition, various forms of direct and indirect federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time, including proposals for the establishment of an optional federal charter for insurance companies. erisa considerations we provide products and services to certain employee benefit plans that are subject to erisa or the code. as such, our activities are subject to the restrictions imposed by erisa and the code, including the requirement under erisa that fiduciaries must perform their duties solely in the interests of erisa plan participants and beneficiaries, and those fiduciaries may not cause a covered plan to engage in certain prohibited transactions. the prohibited transaction rules of erisa and the code generally restrict the provision of investment advice to erisa plans and participants and iras if the investment recommendation results in fees paid to the individual advisor, the firm that employs the advisor or their affiliates that vary according to the investment recommendation chosen, unless an exemption or exception is available. similarly, without an exemption or exception, fiduciary advisors are prohibited from receiving compensation from third parties in connection with their advice. erisa also affects certain of our in-force insurance policies and annuity contracts, as well as insurance policies and annuity contracts we may sell in the future. the dol issued new regulations on april 6, 2016 with an applicable date for most provisions of april 10, 2017. these regulations substantially expand the definition of investment advice and thereby broaden the circumstances under which metlife or its representatives, in providing investment advice with respect to erisa plans, plan participants or iras, could be deemed a fiduciary under erisa or the code. pursuant to the final regulations, certain communications with plans, plan participants and ira holders, including the sales of products, and investment management or advisory services, could be deemed fiduciary investment advice, thus causing increased exposure to fiduciary liability if the distributor does not recommend what is in the client's best interests. while the final regulations also provide that, to a limited extent, contracts sold and advice provided prior to april 10, 2017 do not have to be modified to comply with the new investment advice regulations, there is lack of clarity surrounding some of the conditions for qualifying for this limited exception. there can be no assurance that the dol will agree with our interpretation of the provisions of the new regulations, in which case the dol and irs could assess significant penalties against a portion of products sold prior to april 10, 2017. the assessment of such penalties could also trigger substantial litigation risk. any such penalties and related litigation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the dol also issued amendments to certain of its prohibited transaction exemptions, and issued a new exemption that applies more onerous disclosure and contract requirements to, and increases fiduciary requirements and fiduciary liability exposure in respect of, certain transactions involving erisa plans, plan participants and iras. while we continue to analyze the impact of the final regulations on our business as we plan for their implementation, we believe they could have an adverse effect on sales of annuity products to erisa qualified plans such as iras through our independent distribution partners. the new regulations deem advisors, including independent distributors, who sell fixed index-linked annuities to iras, ira rollovers or 401(k) plans, fiduciaries and prohibit them from receiving compensation unless they comply with a prohibited transaction exemption. the exemption requires advisors to comply with impartial conduct standards and may require us to exercise additional oversight of the sales process. compliance with the prohibited transaction exemption will likely result in increased regulatory burdens on us and our independent distribution partners, changes to our compensation practices and product offerings and increased litigation risk, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. see business regulation u.s. regulation erisa considerations. 48 table of contents however, in light of action by president trump on february 3, 2017, the applicability date of april 10, 2017 may well be delayed. it is also possible that the substance of the regulation could be substantially modified or replaced due to the change in administration. we cannot predict with certainty what other proposals may be made or what legislation or regulations may be introduced or enacted, or what impact any such legislation or regulations may have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. potential regulation of metlife, inc. as a non-bank sifi on december 18, 2014, the fsoc designated metlife, inc. as a non-bank sifi. on january 13, 2015, metlife, inc. filed an action in the d.c. district court asking the court to review and rescind the fsoc's designation. on march 30, 2016, the d.c. district court ordered that the designation of metlife, inc. as a non-bank sifi by the fsoc be rescinded. on april 8, 2016, the fsoc appealed the d.c. district court's order to the d.c. circuit court of appeals, and oral argument was heard on october 24, 2016. if the fsoc prevails on appeal or re-designates metlife, inc. as systemically important as part of its ongoing review of non-bank financial companies, metlife, inc. could once again be subject to regulation that could materially and adversely affect our business and competitive position. non-bank sifis are supervised by the federal reserve board and subject to enhanced prudential standards which dodd-frank requires the federal reserve board to adopt. these enhanced prudential standards, include rbc requirements and leverage limits, liquidity requirements, overall risk management requirements, resolution plan and credit exposure report requirements, and concentration limits. dodd-frank also authorizes the federal reserve board to adopt other standards applicable to non-bank sifis, including contingent capital requirements, enhanced public disclosures, short-term debt limits, and other appropriate standards. in addition, non-bank sifis are subject to stress testing and must pay a variety of assessments, including those relating to any uncovered costs arising in connection with the resolution of a systemically important financial company, expenses incurred by the federal reserve board in fulfilling its oversight role, and funding the office of financial research within the u.s. department of treasury. the federal reserve board has not yet fully implemented most of the standards that will apply to non-bank sifis. accordingly, the manner in which the ultimate standards might apply to metlife, inc. were it to be re-designated as a non-bank sifi and the full impact of such standards, remains unclear. if metlife, inc. were to be re-designated as a non-bank sifi, however, it is possible that such regulations could constrain our ability to pay dividends, repurchase common stock or other securities or engage in other transactions that could affect our capital, or cause us to raise the price of the products we offer, reduce the amount of risk we take on, or stop offering certain products altogether. the trump administration has released a memorandum that generally delayed all pending regulations from publication in the federal register pending their review and approval by a department or agency head appointed or designated by president trump. president trump has also issued an executive order that calls for a comprehensive review of dodd-frank and requires the secretary of the treasury to consult with the heads of the member agencies of fsoc to identify any laws, regulations or requirements that inhibit federal regulation of the financial system in a manner consistent with the core principles identified in the executive order. we cannot predict with certainty what other proposals may be made or what legislation or regulations may be introduced or enacted, or what impact any such legislation or regulations may have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. on january 12, 2016, metlife, inc. announced its plan to pursue the separation. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations executive summary other key information significant events. there can be no assurance that any actions taken in furtherance of this plan will affect any decision the fsoc may make to re-designate metlife, inc. as a non-bank sifi. we may consider further structural and other business alternatives that may be available to us in response to any re-designation of metlife as a non-bank sifi, and we cannot predict the impact that any such alternatives, if implemented, may have on the company or its security holders. see business regulation u.s. regulation potential regulation as a non-bank sifi for additional information regarding potential regulation of metlife, inc. as a non-bank sifi. 49 table of contents international regulation our international insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. a significant portion of our revenues is generated through operations in foreign jurisdictions, including many countries in early stages of economic and political development. our international operations may be materially adversely affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and regulators. see risks related to our business our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability. this may also impact many of our customers and independent sales intermediaries. changes in the laws and regulations that affect these customers and independent sales intermediaries or their operations also may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or distribute our products. accordingly, these changes and actions may negatively affect our business in these jurisdictions. we expect the scope and extent of regulation outside of the u.s., as well as regulatory oversight, generally, to continue to increase. the authority of our international operations to conduct business is subject to licensing requirements, permits and approvals, and these authorizations are subject to modification and revocation. the regulatory environment in the countries in which we operate and changes in laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. see business regulation international regulation. solvency regimes we are subject to solvency ii which became effective on january 1, 2016 in the eea, and are subject to solvency ii-like frameworks in mexico and china, with other similar solvency standards under development in other markets such as brazil and chile. see business regulation international regulation solvency regimes. as requirements are finalized by the regulators, capital requirements might be impacted in a number of jurisdictions. in addition, our legal entity structure throughout europe may impact our capital requirements, risk management infrastructure and reporting by country. global systemically important insurers in the wake of the financial crisis, national and international authorities have proposed measures intended to increase the intensity of regulation of large financial institutions, requiring greater coordination among regulators and efforts to harmonize regulatory regimes. for example, the iais is participating in the fsb's initiative to identify and manage global systemically important financial institutions. to this end, the iais published a methodology to assess the systemic relevance of global insurers and a framework of policy measures to be applied to g-siis. g-sii designation is an annual process. the iais published revised assessment methodology in june 2016 as the new basis for annual designation and, on this basis, the fsb again so designated metlife, inc. in 2016. while the regulatory standards that would apply to g-siis are still being developed, they may include enhanced capital standards and supervision and other additional requirements that would not apply to companies that are not g-siis. the iais proposals would need to be implemented at the consolidated group level by legislation or regulation in each applicable jurisdiction. as metlife, inc. is no longer a u.s. non-bank sifi and none of its regulators have proposed implementing the g-sii requirements, the impact on metlife, inc. of such global proposals is uncertain. see business regulation international regulation global systemically important insurers. general from time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations or audits of metlife, inc.'s regulated subsidiaries that could, if determined adversely, have a material impact on us. in addition, the interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements. compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 50 table of contents the dodd-frank provisions compelling the liquidation of certain types of financial institutions could materially and adversely affect metlife, inc., as such a financial institution and as an investor in other such financial institutions, as well as our investors under provisions of dodd-frank, if metlife, inc. or another financial institution were to become insolvent or were in danger of defaulting on its obligations and it was determined that such default would have serious effects on financial stability in the u.s., it could be compelled to undergo liquidation with the fdic as receiver. while under this new regime an insurance company would be resolved in accordance with state insurance law, if the fdic were appointed as the receiver for another type of a company (including an insurance holding company such as metlife, inc.), liquidation of that company would occur under the provisions of the new liquidation authority, and not under the bankruptcy code, which ordinarily governs liquidations. in an fdic-managed liquidation, holders of a company's debt could in certain respects be treated differently than under the bankruptcy code and similarly-situated creditors could be treated differently. in particular, unsecured creditors and shareholders are intended to bear the losses of the company being liquidated. these provisions could also apply to financial institutions whose debt securities we hold in our investment portfolio and could adversely affect our position as a creditor and the value of our holdings. dodd-frank also provides for the assessment of charges against certain financial institutions, including non-bank sifis and bank holding companies and other financial companies with assets of $50 billion or more, to cover the costs of liquidating any financial company subject to the new liquidation authority. the liquidation authority could increase our funding costs. see business regulation u.s. regulation potential regulation as a non-bank sifi orderly liquidation authority. see also our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth for information regarding the trump administration's expressed goals to dismantle or roll back dodd-frank. legislative and regulatory activity in health care and other employee benefits could affect our profitability as a provider of life insurance, annuities, and non-medical health insurance benefit products the affordable care act has led to fundamental changes in the way that employers, including us, provide health care benefits and other forms of compensation to their employees and former employees. in addition to imposing obligations on metlife as an enterprise, the affordable care act also imposes requirements on us as a provider of non-medical health insurance benefits and as a purchaser of certain of these products. see business regulation u.s. regulation insurance regulation health care regulation for information regarding such requirements, including the effect of assessments related to public healthcare exchanges. the affordable care act or other related regulations or regulatory actions may adversely affect our ability to continue to offer certain non-medical health and dental insurance products in the same manner as we do today and may continue to result in increased and unpredictable costs to provide certain products thereby harming our competitive position. in addition, we employ a substantial number of employees in the united states to whom we offer employment-related benefits. we also currently provide benefits to certain of our retirees. these benefits are provided under complex plans that are subject to a variety of regulatory requirements. the affordable care act or related regulations or regulatory actions could adversely affect our ability to attract, retain and motivate our associates. they could also result in increased or unpredictable costs to provide employee benefits, and could harm our competitive position if we are subject to fees, penalties, tax provisions or other limitations in the affordable care act and our competitors are not. the preservation of access to care for medicare beneficiaries and pension relief act of 2010 also includes certain provisions for defined benefit pension plan funding relief. these provisions may impact the likelihood and/or timing of corporate plan sponsors terminating their plans and/or engaging in transactions to partially or fully transfer pension obligations to an insurance company. consequently, this law could indirectly affect the mix of our business, with fewer pension risk transfers and more non-guaranteed funding products, and adversely impact our results of operations. changes in u.s. federal, state securities and state insurance laws and regulations may affect our operations and our profitability federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to insurance products that are also securities, including variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies, as well as certain fixed interest rate or index-linked contracts with features that require them to be registered as securities ( registered fixed contracts ). as a result, some of metlife, inc.'s subsidiaries and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance contracts and policies are subject to extensive regulation under these securities laws. 51 table of contents federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily intended to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect investors in the securities markets, and to protect investment advisory or brokerage clients. these laws and regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and enforcement powers, including the power to adopt new rules impacting new and/or existing products, regulate the issuance, sales and distribution of our products and limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with the securities laws and regulations. as a result of dodd-frank, there have been a number of changes proposed or adopted to the laws and regulations that govern the conduct of our variable and registered fixed insurance products business and the firms that distribute these products. the future impact of recently adopted revisions to laws and regulations, as well as revisions that are still in the proposal stage, on the way we conduct our business and the products we sell is unclear. such impact could adversely affect our operations and profitability, including increasing the regulatory and compliance burden upon us, resulting in increased costs, or limiting the type, amount or structure of compensation arrangements into which we may enter with certain of our employees, negatively impacting our ability to compete with other companies in recruiting and maintaining key personnel. see business regulation u.s. regulation erisa considerations and business regulation u.s. regulation securities, broker-dealer and investment adviser regulation. however, following the change of administration, we cannot predict with certainty whether any such proposals will be adopted, or what impact adopted revisions will have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth for information regarding the trump administration's expressed goals to dismantle or roll back dodd-frank. we also may be subject to similar laws and regulations in the foreign countries in which we offer products or conduct other activities similar to those described above. see business regulation international regulation. the global financial crisis has led to significant changes in economic and financial markets that have, in turn, led to a dynamic competitive landscape for variable and registered fixed product issuers. our ability to react to rapidly changing market and economic conditions will depend on the continued efficacy of provisions we have incorporated into our product design allowing frequent and contemporaneous revisions of key pricing elements and our ability to work collaboratively with federal securities regulators. changes in regulatory approval processes, rules and other dynamics in the regulatory process could adversely impact our ability to react to such changing conditions. changes in tax laws or interpretations of such laws could reduce our earnings and materially impact our operations by increasing our corporate taxes and making some of our products less attractive to consumers changes in domestic or foreign tax laws or interpretations of such laws could increase our corporate taxes and reduce our earnings. for example, in the third quarter of 2015, metlife, inc. recorded a $792 million after-tax charge, or $.70 per share, under accounting guidance for the recognition of tax uncertainties as a result of our consideration of decisions of the u.s. court of appeals for the second circuit upholding the disallowance of foreign tax credits claimed by other corporate entities not affiliated with us (in transactions different from ours), based upon a changed interpretation of the proper method of determining that a transaction has economic substance. additionally, global budget deficits make it likely that governments' need for additional revenue will result in future tax proposals that will increase our effective tax rate. however, it remains difficult to predict the timing and effect that future tax law changes could have on our earnings both in the u.s. and in foreign jurisdictions. such changes could not only directly impact our corporate taxes but also could adversely impact our products (both life insurance and retirement plans) by making some of our products less attractive to consumers. a shift away from life insurance and annuity contracts and other tax-deferred products by our customers would reduce our income from sales of these products, as well as the asset base upon which we earn investment income and fees, thereby reducing our earnings and potentially affecting the value of our deferred tax assets. additionally, the trump administration and congress have publicly stated that fundamental u.s. tax reform is a priority. the substance, timing and likelihood of such reform are all uncertain. such reform could impact the company's corporate taxes and products, whether favorably or adversely. while current tax reform proposals generally include a reduction of the u.s. corporate tax rate, given the overall u.s. budget deficit it is likely that any tax reform will include provisions which would raise revenues. thus, it is not possible to predict with certainty whether the reform would be beneficial or adverse to metlife, inc. 52 table of contents litigation and regulatory investigations are increasingly common in our businesses and may result in significant financial losses and/or harm to our reputation we face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. our pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings specific to us and others generally applicable to business practices in the industries in which we operate. in connection with our insurance operations, plaintiffs' lawyers may bring or are bringing class actions and individual suits alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product design, disclosure, administration, investments, denial or delay of benefits and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers. plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages. due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular points in time may normally be difficult to ascertain. uncertainties can include how fact finders will evaluate documentary evidence and the credibility and effectiveness of witness testimony, and how trial and appellate courts will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal. disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the relevant evidence and applicable law. material pending litigation and regulatory matters affecting us and risks to our business presented by these proceedings are discussed in note 21 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. updates are provided in the notes to our interim condensed consolidated financial statements included in our subsequently filed quarterly reports on form 10-q, as well as in part ii, item 1 ( legal proceedings ) of those quarterly reports. a substantial legal liability or a significant federal, state or other regulatory action against us, as well as regulatory inquiries or investigations, could harm our reputation, result in material fines or penalties, result in significant legal costs and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation, regulatory action or investigation, our ability to attract new customers, retain our current customers and recruit and retain employees could be materially and adversely impacted. regulatory inquiries and litigation may also cause volatility in the price of stocks of companies in our industry. current claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and other proceedings against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. it is also possible that related or unrelated claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and proceedings may be commenced in the future, and we could become subject to further investigations and have lawsuits filed or enforcement actions initiated against us. we currently have a market presence in numerous countries and may be subject to additional investigations and lawsuits in these jurisdictions. increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings in any of the countries where we operate could result in new legal actions and precedents and industry-wide regulations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks related to acquisitions, dispositions or other structural changes we may not complete the separation of brighthouse financial on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, if at all on october 5, 2016, our wholly-owned subsidiary, brighthouse, filed a registration statement on form 10 with the sec in connection with the previously announced separation of a substantial portion of our former retail segment, as well as certain portions of our former corporate benefit funding segment. the form 10, as amended, reflects our current plan to initiate the separation in the form of an initial spin-off of 80.1% of the outstanding common stock of brighthouse. while we and brighthouse are currently preparing for a spin-off transaction, the ultimate form and timing of a separation will be influenced by a number of factors, including regulatory considerations and economic conditions. we continue to evaluate and pursue structural alternatives for the proposed separation. metlife has initiated the regulatory process for the proposed separation of brighthouse financial. unanticipated developments could delay, prevent or otherwise adversely affect the currently proposed spin-off of brighthouse, including possible problems or delays in obtaining various insurance and other regulatory approvals, tax approvals (including the failure of such a separation to qualify for any intended tax-free treatment) and disruptions in the capital and financial markets. in addition, consummation of the currently proposed spin-off will require final approval from our board of directors. therefore, we cannot assure that we will complete the separation in the form, on the terms or on the timeline that we announced, if at all. 53 table of contents in order to position ourselves for the proposed separation, we are actively pursuing strategic, structural and process realignment and restructuring actions within our former retail segment (now, the brighthouse financial and metlife holdings segments). these actions could lead to disruption of our operations, loss of, or inability to recruit, key personnel needed to operate and grow our businesses and complete the proposed separation, weakening of our internal standards, controls or procedures, and impairment of our relationship with key customers and counterparties. we have and will continue to incur significant expenses in connection with the proposed separation. we also may not achieve certain of the benefits that we expect to achieve in connection with the separation, including dividends from brighthouse to metlife, inc., due to, among other things, the inability of brighthouse to raise sufficient funds by the incurrence of debt or otherwise, or lower than expected dividends received by brighthouse from its subsidiaries. in addition, completion of the proposed separation will require significant amounts of our management's time and effort which may divert management's attention from operating and growing our remaining businesses and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we could face difficulties, unforeseen liabilities, asset impairments or rating actions arising from business acquisitions or integrating and managing growth of such businesses, dispositions of businesses, or legal entity reorganizations we have engaged in dispositions and acquisitions of businesses in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations executive summary other key information significant events for information regarding metlife, inc.'s plan to pursue the separation, as well as the u.s. retail advisor force divestiture. such activity exposes us to a number of risks arising from (i) potential difficulties achieving projected financial results, including the costs and benefits of integration or deconsolidation; (ii) unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments; (iii) the scope and duration of rights to indemnification for losses; (iv) the use of capital which could be used for other purposes; (v) rating agency reactions; (vi) regulatory requirements that could impact our operations or capital requirements; (vii) changes in statutory or u.s. gaap accounting principles, practices or policies; and (viii) certain other risks specifically arising from activities relating to an initial public offering, spin-off, joint venture or legal entity reorganization, including in connection with the proposed separation. the valuation and structure for any transaction reflect our financial projections and other qualitative and quantitative factors. every transaction exposes us to the risk that actual results may materially differ from what we have projected. factors that can cause our ultimate experience to vary materially from financial projections made at the time we enter into a transaction include, but are not limited to, macroeconomic, business growth, demographic, policyholder behavior and other actuarial assumptions, regulatory and political conditions. risks relating to acquisition our ability to achieve certain financial benefits we anticipate from any acquisitions of businesses will depend in part upon our ability to successfully integrate such businesses in an efficient and effective manner. we may not be able to integrate such businesses smoothly or successfully, and the process may take longer than expected. the integration of operations and differences in organizational culture may require the dedication of significant management resources, which may distract management's attention from day-to-day business. if we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of such acquired businesses, we may be unable to realize the benefits we expect to achieve as a result of such acquisitions and our business and results of operations may be less than expected. 54 table of contents the success with which we are able to integrate acquired operations will depend on our ability to manage a variety of issues, including the following: loss of key personnel or higher than expected employee attrition rates could adversely affect the performance of the acquired business and our ability to integrate it successfully. customers of the acquired business may reduce, delay or defer decisions concerning their use of its products and services as a result of the acquisition or uncertainty related to the consummation of the acquisition, including, for example, potential unfamiliarity with the metlife brand in regions where we did not have a market presence prior to the acquisition. if the acquired business relies upon independent distributors to distribute its products, these distributors may not continue to generate the same volume of business for us after the acquisition. independent distributors may reexamine the scope of their relationship with the acquired business or us as a result of the acquisition and decide to curtail or eliminate distribution of our products. if the acquired business relies on continued distribution access with another party, we are also exposed to the risk of loss of exclusivity or change in access due to regulatory changes. integrating acquired operations with our existing operations may require us to coordinate geographically separated organizations, address possible differences in corporate culture and management philosophies, merge financial processes and risk and compliance procedures, combine separate information technology platforms and integrate operations that were previously closely tied to the former parent of the acquired business or other service providers. in cases where we or an acquired business operates in certain markets through joint ventures, the acquisition may affect the continued success and prospects of the joint venture. we may incur significant costs in connection with any acquisition and the related integration. the costs and liabilities actually incurred in connection with an acquisition and subsequent integration process may exceed those anticipated. there could be unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments, including goodwill impairments, which arise in connection with the businesses that we may sell or the businesses that we may acquire in the future. in addition, there may be liabilities or asset impairments that we fail, or are unable, to discover in the course of performing acquisition-related due diligence investigations. furthermore, even for obligations and liabilities that we do discover during the due diligence process, neither the valuation adjustment nor the contractual protections we negotiate may be sufficient to fully protect us from losses. although we generally have rights to indemnification for certain losses, our rights may be limited by survival periods for bringing claims and limitations on the nature and amount of losses we may recover, and we cannot be certain that indemnification will be, among other things, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any loss we may suffer. the use of our own funds as consideration in any acquisition would consume capital resources, which could affect our capital plan and render those funds unavailable for other corporate purposes. we also may not be able to raise sufficient funds to consummate an acquisition if, for example, we are unable to sell our securities or close related bridge credit facilities. risks relating to dispositions we may from time to time dispose of business or blocks of in-force business through an outright sale, reinsurance transaction or by alternate means such as a public offering of shares in an independent, publicly traded company or a spin-off, which would also result in a separate, possibly independent and publicly traded, company. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations executive summary other key information significant events for information on metlife, inc.'s announcement of its plan to pursue the separation, as well as the u.s. retail advisor force divestiture. the separation, depending on the specific form, would be subject to the satisfaction of various conditions and approvals, including, among other things, approval of any transaction by the metlife, inc. board of directors, satisfaction of any applicable requirements of the sec, and receipt of insurance and other regulatory approvals and other anticipated conditions. see we may not complete the separation of brighthouse financial on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, if at all. in addition, transitional services or tax arrangements related to the separation may impose restrictions, liabilities, losses or indemnification obligations on us. furthermore, a distributor has elected to suspend, and other distributors may elect to suspend, alter, reduce or terminate their distribution relationships with us for various reasons, including uncertainty related to the proposed separation, changes in our distribution strategy, adverse developments in our business, adverse rating agency actions or concerns about market-related risks. 55 table of contents when we dispose of subsidiaries or operations, we may remain liable to the acquiror or to third parties for certain losses or costs arising from the divested business or on other bases. we may also not realize the anticipated profit on a disposition or incur a loss on the disposition. in anticipation of any disposition, we may need to restructure our operations, which could disrupt such operations and affect our ability to recruit key personnel needed to operate and grow such business pending the completion of such transaction. in addition, the actions of key employees of the business to be divested could adversely affect the success of such disposition as they may be more focused on obtaining employment, or the terms of their employment, than on maximizing the value of the business to be divested. furthermore, transitional services or tax arrangements related to any such separation could further disrupt our operations and may impose restrictions, liabilities, losses or indemnification obligations on us. depending on its particulars, a separation could increase our exposure to certain risks, such as by decreasing the diversification of our sources of revenue or by changing the percentage of our revenue being derived from non-u.s. sources. see risks related to our business our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability. any such separation could also affect the dividends available to be paid to metlife, inc. by the subsidiaries that are part of such separation. furthermore, we may be unable to timely dissolve all contractual relationships with the divested business in the course of the proposed transaction, which may materially adversely affect our ability to realize value from the disposition. such restructuring could also adversely affect our internal controls and procedures and impair our relationships with key customers, distributors and suppliers. an interruption or significant change in certain key relationships could materially affect our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. after any such disposition, shares of our common stock will represent an investment in a company different in size and characteristics from the present. these changes may cause some existing shareholders to sell their shares of our common stock, which could, if excessive, cause the market price of our common stock to decrease. risks relating to joint ventures we participate in joint ventures, which may also include exclusive or semi-exclusive distribution relationships, in several countries, including china and india. we may enter into joint ventures with other companies or government sponsored enterprises in various other international markets, including joint ventures where we may have a lesser degree of control over the business operations, which may expose us to additional operational, financial, legal or compliance risks. we may be dependent on a joint venture counterparty for capital, product distribution, local market knowledge, or other resources. limits on our ownership levels under local laws or regulations may increase our dependence on joint venture counterparties and subsequent changes to such laws or regulations may impact how we account for our joint venture ownership interests or manage the joint venture. regulations regarding the level of foreign ownership or operations of such entities or limitation on distribution exclusivity may affect the value of a joint venture. see risks related to our business our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability. a joint venture may require an investment of considerable management, financial and operational resources to establish sufficient infrastructure such as underwriting, actuarial, risk management, compliance or other processes. if we are unable to effectively cooperate with joint venture counterparties, or any joint venture counterparty fails to meets its obligations under the joint venture arrangement, encounters financial difficulty, or elects to alter, modify or terminate the relationship, we may be unable to exercise management control or influence over these joint venture operations and our ability to achieve our objectives and our results of operations may be negatively impacted thereby impairing our investment. risks relating to legal entity reorganizations in addition, we may reorganize or consolidate the legal entities through which we conduct business. the implementation of legal entity reorganizations is a complex undertaking and involves a number of risks similar to those outlined above that are present in the case of an acquisition, including additional costs and expenses, information technology-related delays and problems, loss of key personnel and distraction of management. over the past several years, we have pursued two significant reorganizations. for example, in november 2014, the company completed the mergers into metlife usa of certain of its affiliates and a subsidiary. in 2015, we substantially completed a reorganization of many of our foreign entities under a single holding company. many aspects of these transactions are subject to regulatory approvals from a number of different jurisdictions. we may not obtain needed regulatory approvals in the timeframe anticipated or at all, which could reduce or prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of these transactions. these transactions or the related regulatory approvals may entail modifications of certain aspects of our operations, the composition of certain of our investment portfolios, and/or the cost of our derivatives hedging activities, which could result in additional costs or reduce net investment income. these transactions are often effected to achieve certain operational, capital or tax benefits and to the extent not realized could affect the ongoing value and financial results of such entities. any of these risks, if realized, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 56 table of contents investments-related risks should the need arise, we may have difficulty selling certain holdings in our investment portfolio or in our securities lending program in a timely manner and realizing full value given their illiquid nature there may be a limited market for certain investments we hold in our investment portfolio, making them relatively illiquid. these include privately-placed fixed maturity securities, certain derivative instruments, mortgage loans, policy loans, leveraged leases, other limited partnership interests, and real estate equity, such as real estate joint ventures and funds. in recent years, even some of our very high quality investments experienced reduced liquidity during periods of market volatility or disruption. if we were forced to sell certain of our investments during periods of market volatility or disruption, market prices may be lower than our carrying value in such investments. this could result in realized losses which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, as well as our financial ratios, which could affect compliance with our credit instruments and rating agency capital adequacy measures. similarly, we loan blocks of our securities to third parties (primarily brokerage firms and commercial banks) through our securities lending program, including fixed maturity (primarily u.s. government and u.s. government-backed securities) and equity securities, short-term investments and cash equivalents. under this program, we obtain collateral, usually cash, at the inception of a loan and typically purchase securities with the cash collateral. upon the return to us of these loaned securities, we must return to the third party the cash collateral we received. if the cash collateral has been invested in securities, we need to sell the securities. however, in some cases, the maturity of those securities may exceed the term of the related securities on loan and the estimated fair value of the securities we need to sell may fall below the amount of cash received. if we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral under our securities lending program or otherwise need significant amounts of cash on short notice and we are forced to sell securities, we may have difficulty selling such collateral that is invested in securities in a timely manner, be forced to sell securities in a volatile or illiquid market for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize under normal market conditions, or both. in the event of a forced sale, accounting guidance requires the recognition of a loss for securities in an unrealized loss position and may require the impairment of other securities based on our ability to hold those securities, which would negatively impact our financial condition, as well as our financial ratios, which could affect compliance with our credit instruments and rating agency capital adequacy measures. in addition, under stressful capital market and economic conditions, liquidity broadly deteriorates, which may further restrict our ability to sell securities. furthermore, if we decrease the amount of our securities lending activities over time, the amount of net investment income generated by these activities will also likely decline. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital uses securities lending. our requirements to pledge collateral or make payments related to declines in estimated fair value of derivatives transactions or specified assets in connection with otc-cleared and otc-bilateral transactions may adversely affect our liquidity, expose us to central clearinghouse and counterparty credit risk, and increase our costs of hedging substantially all of our derivatives transactions require us to pledge collateral related to any decline in the net estimated fair value of such derivatives transactions executed through a specific broker at a clearinghouse or entered into with a specific counterparty on a bilateral basis. certain derivatives financing transactions require us to pledge collateral or make payments related to declines in the estimated fair value of the specified assets under certain circumstances to central clearinghouses or our counterparties. the amount of collateral we may be required to pledge and the payments we may be required to make under our derivatives transactions may increase under certain circumstances and will increase as a result of the requirement to pledge initial margin for otc-cleared transactions and for otc-bilateral transactions entered into after the phase-in period, which will likely be applicable to us in september 2020 as a result of the adoption by the prudential regulators and the cftc of final margin requirements for non-centrally cleared derivatives. although the final rules allow us to pledge a broad range of non-cash collateral as initial and variation margin, the prudential regulators, cftc, central clearinghouses and counterparties may restrict or eliminate certain types of previously eligible collateral or charge us to pledge such non-cash collateral, which would increase our costs and could adversely affect the liquidity of our investments and the composition of our investment portfolio. see business regulation u.s. regulation regulation of over-the-counter derivatives, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital uses pledged collateral, and note 9 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 57 table of contents gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities and defaults, downgrades or other events may result in future impairments to the carrying value of such securities, resulting in a reduction in our net income fixed maturity and equity securities classified as available-for-sale ( afs ) securities are reported at their estimated fair value. unrealized gains or losses on afs securities are recognized as a component of other comprehensive income (loss) ( oci ) and are, therefore, excluded from net income. in recent periods, as a result of low interest rates, the unrealized gains on our fixed maturity securities have exceeded the unrealized losses. however, if interest rates rise, our unrealized gains would decrease and our unrealized losses would increase, perhaps substantially. the accumulated change in estimated fair value of these afs securities is recognized in net income when the gain or loss is realized upon the sale of the security or in the event that the decline in estimated fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary and an impairment charge to earnings is taken. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments fixed maturity and equity securities afs. the occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening credit risk spreads, or other events that adversely affect the issuers or guarantors of securities or the underlying collateral of structured securities could cause the estimated fair value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio and corresponding earnings to decline and cause the default rate of the fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio to increase. a ratings downgrade affecting issuers or guarantors of particular securities, or similar trends that could worsen the credit quality of issuers, such as the corporate issuers of securities in our investment portfolio, could also have a similar effect. with economic uncertainty, credit quality of issuers or guarantors could be adversely affected. similarly, a ratings downgrade affecting a security we hold could indicate the credit quality of that security has deteriorated and could increase the capital we must hold to support that security to maintain our rbc levels. levels of writedowns or impairments are impacted by intent to sell, or our assessment of the likelihood that we will be required to sell, fixed maturity securities, as well as our intent and ability to hold equity securities which have declined in value until recovery. realized losses or impairments on these securities may have a material adverse effect on our net income in a particular quarterly or annual period. our valuation of securities and investments and the determination of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on our investments are subjective and include methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations and market conditions and, if changed, could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition fixed maturity, equity, fair value option ( fvo ) and trading securities, as well as short-term investments that are reported at estimated fair value represent the majority of our total cash and investments. we define fair value generally as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability. considerable judgment is often required in interpreting market data to develop estimates of fair value, and the use of different assumptions or valuation methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. during periods of market disruption including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. in addition, in times of financial market disruption, certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data may become illiquid. in those cases, the valuation process includes inputs that are less observable and require more subjectivity and management judgment. valuations may result in estimated fair values which vary significantly from the amount at which the investments may ultimately be sold. further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in estimated fair value could vary significantly. decreases in the estimated fair value of securities we hold may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments and notes 1 and 10 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. the determination of the amount of allowances and impairments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. we reflect any changes in allowances and impairments in earnings as such evaluations are revised. however, historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances. in addition, any such future impairments or allowances could have a materially adverse effect on our earnings and financial position. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates investment impairments and note 8 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 58 table of contents defaults on our mortgage loans and volatility in performance may adversely affect our profitability our mortgage loans face default risk and are principally collateralized by commercial, agricultural and residential properties. we establish valuation allowances for estimated impairments, which are based on loan risk characteristics, historical default rates and loss severities, real estate market fundamentals and outlooks, as well as other relevant factors. in addition, substantially all of our commercial and agricultural mortgage loans held-for-investment have balloon payment maturities. an increase in the default rate of our mortgage loan investments or fluctuations in their performance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. further, any geographic or property type concentration of our mortgage loans may have adverse effects on our investment portfolio and consequently on our results of operations or financial condition. while we seek to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolio to the extent that the portfolio is concentrated. moreover, our ability to sell assets relating to such particular groups of related assets may be limited if other market participants are seeking to sell at the same time. in addition, legislative proposals that would allow or require modifications to the terms of mortgage loans could be enacted. we cannot predict whether these proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business or investments. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments mortgage loans. the defaults or deteriorating credit of other financial institutions could adversely affect us we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, central clearinghouses, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge funds and investment funds and other financial institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. in addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. we also have exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments, non-redeemable and redeemable preferred securities, derivatives, joint venture, hedge fund and equity investments. further, potential action by governments and regulatory bodies in response to the financial crisis affecting the global banking system and financial markets, such as investment, nationalization, conservatorship, receivership and other intervention, whether under existing legal authority or any new authority that may be created, or lack of action by governments and central banks, as well as deterioration in the banks' credit standing, could negatively impact these instruments, securities, transactions and investments or limit our ability to trade with them. any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these investments or other changes may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. risks related to our business our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability our international operations face political, legal, financial, operational and other risks. these operations may be materially adversely affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and regulators, such as through nationalization or expropriation of assets; the imposition of limits on foreign ownership of local companies which may increase our dependence on joint venture counterparties and/or impact how we account for our joint venture ownership interests; changes in laws (including tax laws and regulations), their application or interpretation; political instability (including any resulting economic or trade sanctions); dividend limitations; price controls; changes in applicable currency; currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold into u.s. dollars or other currencies, as well as other adverse actions by foreign governmental authorities and regulators, such as the retroactive application of new requirements on our current and prior activities or operations and the imposition of regulations limiting our ability to distribute our products. such actions may negatively affect our business in these jurisdictions and could indirectly affect our business in other jurisdictions as well. some of our foreign insurance operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where these risks are heightened. for example, proposed reform of the chilean pension system, if enacted, may have a significant adverse effect on our business in chile. see business regulation international regulation. 59 table of contents the trump administration has discussed potentially putting in place a tax on goods and services imported into the united states, including from countries in which we have international operations, such as mexico. for example, president trump has in the past referred to renegotiating nafta, which had eliminated most trade tariffs between the united states, canada and mexico. our business in mexico is not related to any trade agreements and is tied to the general economy and the growth of the market. we cannot predict with certainty what proposals may be made in connection with international trade agreements or what legislation or regulations may be introduced or enacted, or what impact any such legislation or regulations may have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. part of our international insurance operations may be subject to assessments, generally based on their proportionate share of business written in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations to policyholders and claimants resulting from the insolvency of insurance companies. we cannot predict the timing and scope of any assessments that may be made in the future, which may materially affect the results of operations of our international insurance operations in particular quarterly or annual periods. see business regulation international regulation and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, as well as regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. we have market presence in numerous countries and increased exposure to risks posed by local and regional economic conditions. concerns about the political and/or economic stability in the u.k., italy, mexico, turkey and puerto rico have recently contributed to global market volatility. lack of legal certainty and stability in these regions exposes our operations there to increased risk of disruption and to adverse or unpredictable actions by regulators and may make it more difficult for us to enforce our contracts, which may negatively impact our business in these regions. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends financial and economic environment. on june 23, 2016, the u.k. held a referendum regarding its membership in the eu, resulting in a narrow vote in favor of leaving the eu. the u.k. subsequently indicated that it will initiate the withdrawal process by the end of march 2017. the member withdrawal provisions in the applicable eu treaty have not been used before so it is unclear how the provisions will work in practice. assuming the u.k. initiates the withdrawal process by giving notice that it is withdrawing from the eu, the relevant treaty provides that the u.k. and the eu will negotiate a withdrawal agreement during a maximum two-year period (unless such period is extended by unanimous vote of the other eu member states). it is currently anticipated that the withdrawal agreement would deal with the details of the immediate exit but would not set out final trade arrangements or deal comprehensively with other potentially significant matters. upon effectiveness of the withdrawal agreement, or, if no agreement is concluded in the two-year period, at the end of the period, the u.k. will no longer be a member of the eu. in the meantime, however, the u.k. remains a member of the eu with unchanged rights to access the single eu market in goods and services. our u.k. business model utilizes certain rights to operate cross-border insurance and investment operations which may be modified or eliminated as a result of the u.k. exiting the eu. operating expenses within our businesses could increase as a result of uncertainties during the negotiation period and in the event of an eventual u.k. withdrawal. we face substantial exposure to the japanese economy given the size of our business there, and japan continues to experience overall sluggish economic performance. economic slowdowns and volatility may impact other markets where we have a material presence, including latin america and europe. unfavorable economic conditions could adversely impact the demand for our products, negatively impact earnings, adversely affect the performance of our investments or result in impairments, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. see economic environment and capital markets-related risks if difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally persist, they may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment selected country investments. furthermore, we rely on local sales forces in these countries and may encounter labor problems resulting from workers' associations and trade unions in some countries. if our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training the sales force in that country. we are continuing to expand our international operations in certain markets where we operate and in selected new markets. this may require considerable management time, as well as start-up expenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. the prospects of our business also may be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to manage the growth of such international operations successfully. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in managing such future growth. further, operations in new foreign markets may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in existing markets may be affected by local political, economic and market conditions. therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not achieve expected operating margins and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. 60 table of contents fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our profitability we are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar resulting from our holdings of non-u.s. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries, net income from foreign operations and issuance of non-u.s. dollar denominated instruments, including guaranteed interest contracts and funding agreements. in general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the u.s. dollar will adversely affect the estimated fair value of our non-u.s. dollar denominated investments, our investments in foreign subsidiaries, and our net income from foreign operations. in addition, from time to time, various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies. our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk is exacerbated by our investments in these emerging markets. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in addition, certain of our life and annuity products are exposed to foreign exchange rate risk. payments under these contracts, depending on the circumstances, may be required to be made in different currencies and may not be the legal tender in the country whose law governs the particular product. changes in exchange rate movements and the imposition of capital controls may also directly impact the liability valuation that may not be entirely hedged. if the currency upon which expected future payments are made strengthens, the liability valuation may increase, which may result in a reduction of net income. historically, we have matched substantially all of our foreign currency denominated liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with investments denominated in their respective foreign currency, which limits the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuations on local operating results; however, fluctuations in such rates affect the translation of these results into our u.s. dollar basis consolidated financial statements. although we take certain actions to address this risk, including entering into foreign currency derivatives, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could materially adversely affect our reported results due to unhedged positions, asymmetrical and non-economic accounting resulting from derivative gains (losses) on non-qualifying hedges, or the failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. our reported results could also be adversely affected if the economy of one or more of our foreign subsidiaries is determined to be highly inflationary, generally defined by a cumulative inflation rate of approximately 100% or more over a three-year period. we face significant exposure to risks associated with fluctuations in the yen/u.s. dollar exchange rate because we have substantial operations in japan and a large portion of our premiums and investment income in japan are received in yen. most claims and expenses associated with our operations in japan are also paid in yen and we primarily purchase yen-denominated assets to support yen-denominated policy liabilities. these and other yen-denominated financial statement items are, however, translated into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. accordingly, fluctuations in the yen/u.s. dollar exchange rate can have a significant effect on our reported financial position and results of operations. our japan operation does assume some currency exposure by backing a portion of surplus and yen-denominated liabilities with u.s. dollar assets. although this represents risk to our japan operation, this activity reduces yen exposure at the enterprise level. additionally, our japan operation sells u.s. dollar and australian dollar life and annuity products to japanese customers. we may experience elevated levels of early policy terminations when the japanese yen weakens against these currencies. while the cost of early policy terminations is offset by surrender charges, foreign exchange rate fluctuations will impact both our sales volumes and the amount of business we have in-force. due to our significant international operations, during periods when any foreign currency from which we derive our revenues weakens (strengthens), translating amounts expressed in that currency into u.s. dollars causes fewer (more) u.s. dollars to be reported. any unrealized foreign currency translation adjustments ( fcta ) are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ( aoci ). the weakening of a foreign currency relative to the u.s. dollar will generally adversely affect the value of investments in u.s. dollar terms and reduce the level of reserves denominated in that currency. an inability to access our credit facility could result in a reduction in our liquidity and lead to downgrades in our credit and financial strength ratings we rely on our unsecured credit facility maintained by metlife, inc. and metlife funding, inc. ( metlife funding ), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of metlife, inc. (the credit facility ), as a potential source of liquidity. the availability of this credit facility, which is currently $4.0 billion but which is expected to decrease to $3.0 billion upon the completion of the proposed separation, could be critical to our credit and financial strength ratings and our ability to meet our obligations as they come due in a market when alternative sources of credit are tight. the credit facility contains certain administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants, including a requirement to maintain a specified minimum consolidated net worth. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital sources global funding sources credit and committed facilities and note 12 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 61 table of contents our right to borrow funds under the credit facility is subject to the fulfillment of certain important conditions, including our compliance with all covenants, and our ability to borrow under the credit facility is also subject to the continued willingness and ability of the lenders that are parties to the credit facility to provide funds. our failure to comply with the covenants in the credit facility or fulfill the conditions to borrowings, or the failure of lenders to fund their lending commitments (whether due to insolvency, illiquidity or other reasons) in the amounts provided for under the terms of the credit facility, would restrict our ability to access the credit facility when needed and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may need to fund deficiencies in our closed block; assets allocated to the closed block benefit only the holders of closed block policies mlic's plan of reorganization, as amended, established in connection with its demutualization, required that we establish and operate an accounting mechanism, known as a closed block, to ensure that the reasonable dividend expectations of policyholders who own individual participating whole life insurance policies of mlic in force at the time of the demutualization are met. we allocated assets to the closed block in an amount that will produce cash flows which, together with anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block, are reasonably expected to be sufficient to support obligations and liabilities relating to these policies, including, but not limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain expenses and tax, and to provide for the continuation of the policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999, if the experience underlying such scales continues, and for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience changes. the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block may not be sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies. if they are not, we must fund the shortfall. even if they are sufficient, we may choose, for competitive reasons, to support policyholder dividend payments with our general account funds. the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenues from the policies in the closed block will benefit only the holders of the policies in the closed block. in addition, to the extent that these amounts are greater than the amounts estimated at the time the closed block was funded, dividends payable in respect of the policies included in the closed block may be greater than they would be in the absence of a closed block. any excess earnings will be available for distribution over time only to closed block policyholders. see note 7 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. a downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could result in a loss of business and materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations financial strength ratings are published by various nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ( nrsros ) and similar entities not formally recognized as nrsros. they indicate the nrsros' opinion regarding an insurance company's ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations, and are important to maintaining public confidence in our products and our competitive position. see business company ratings for additional information regarding our financial strength ratings. downgrades in our financial strength ratings or changes to our rating outlooks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including: reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other investment products; adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and independent sales intermediaries; materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders; requiring us to post additional collateral under certain of our financing and derivative transactions; requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and services to remain competitive; providing termination rights for the benefit of our derivative instrument counterparties; adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices or at all; limiting our access to the capital markets; potentially increasing the cost of debt; requiring us to post collateral; and subjecting us to potentially increased regulatory scrutiny. 62 table of contents in addition to the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries, various nrsros also publish credit ratings for metlife, inc. and several of its subsidiaries. credit ratings indicate the nrsros' opinion regarding a debt issuer's ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner and are important factors in our overall funding profile and ability to access certain types of liquidity. see note 9 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding the impact of a one-notch downgrade with respect to derivative transactions with credit rating downgrade triggers and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital uses pledged collateral for further information on the impact of a one-notch downgrade. see also management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company capital rating agencies. in view of the difficulties experienced by many financial institutions as a result of the financial crisis and ensuing global recession, including our competitors in the insurance industry, we believe it is possible that the nrsros will continue to heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to insurance companies, will continue to increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, will continue to request additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without notice by any nrsro. reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses as part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various business segments. while reinsurance agreements generally bind the reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured at generally fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new business. in certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for business already reinsured may also increase. for example, for some of our group businesses under which the policies and related reinsurance are subject to periodic (typically annual) renewal, prices may increase at any renewal. also, for most of our traditional life reinsurance agreements, it is common for the reinsurer to have a right to increase reinsurance rates on in-force business if there is a systematic deterioration of mortality in the market as a whole. any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to those policies we issue. see business reinsurance activity and if the counterparties to our reinsurance or indemnification arrangements or to the derivatives we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. if the counterparties to our reinsurance or indemnification arrangements or to the derivatives we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations we use reinsurance, indemnification and derivatives to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. in general, reinsurance, indemnification and derivatives do not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers, indemnitors, counterparties and central clearinghouses. a reinsurer's, indemnitor's, counterparty's or central clearinghouse's insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of reinsurance agreements, indemnity agreements or derivatives agreements with us or inability or unwillingness to return collateral could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, including our liquidity. see business reinsurance activity. in addition, we use derivatives to hedge various business risks. we enter into a variety of derivatives, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit default and currency swaps with a number of counterparties on a bilateral basis for uncleared otc derivatives and with clearing brokers and central clearinghouses for otc-cleared derivatives. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations derivatives. if our counterparties, clearing brokers or central clearinghouses fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivatives, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. this risk is more pronounced in light of the stresses suffered by financial institutions over the past few years. such failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 63 table of contents differences between actual claims experience and underwriting and reserving assumptions may adversely affect our financial results our earnings significantly depend upon the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in setting prices for our products and establishing liabilities for future policy benefits and claims. such amounts are established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims. to the extent that actual claims experience is less favorable than the underlying assumptions we used in establishing such liabilities, we could be required to reduce dac and/or voba, increase our liabilities and/or incur higher costs. due to the nature of the underlying risks and the uncertainty associated with the determination of liabilities for future policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely the amounts which we will ultimately pay to settle our liabilities. such amounts may vary from the estimated amounts, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future. we evaluate our liabilities periodically based on accounting requirements, which change from time to time, the assumptions used to establish the liabilities, as well as our actual experience. if the liabilities originally established for future benefit payments prove inadequate, we must increase them and/or reduce associated dac and/or voba. such adjustments could affect earnings negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. see business policyholder liabilities and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations policyholder liabilities. see also management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates deferred policy acquisition costs and value of business acquired, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates derivatives, and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations consolidated results year ended december 31, 2016 compared with the year ended december 31, 2015 actuarial assumption review for further information regarding the manner in which policyholder behavior and other events may differ from our assumptions and, thereby affect our financial results. catastrophes may adversely impact liabilities for policyholder claims and reinsurance availability our insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic events. the extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however, hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis and man-made catastrophes may produce significant damage or loss of life or property damage in larger areas, especially those that are heavily populated. claims resulting from catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition. in addition, catastrophic events could harm the financial condition of issuers of obligations we hold in our investment portfolio, resulting in impairments to these obligations, and the financial condition of our reinsurers, thereby increasing the probability of default on reinsurance recoveries. large-scale catastrophes may also reduce the overall level of economic activity in affected countries which could hurt our business and the value of our investments or our ability to write new business. it is possible that increases in the value, caused by the effects of inflation or other factors, and geographic concentration of insured lives or property, could increase the severity of claims we receive from future catastrophic events. our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that causes a large number of deaths. significant influenza pandemics have occurred three times in the last century; however, the likelihood, timing, and severity of a future pandemic cannot be predicted. a significant pandemic could have a major impact on the global economy or the economies of particular countries or regions, including travel, trade, tourism, the health system, food supply, consumption, overall economic output and, eventually, on the financial markets. in addition, a pandemic that affected our employees or the employees of our distributors or of other companies with which we do business could disrupt our business operations. the effectiveness of external parties, including governmental and non-governmental organizations, in combating the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have a material impact on the losses we experience. in our group insurance operations, a localized event that affects the workplace of one or more of our group insurance customers could cause a significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims. these events could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any period and, depending on their severity, could also materially and adversely affect our financial condition. 64 table of contents our property &amp; casualty businesses have experienced, and will likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses that may have a material adverse impact on their business, results of operations and financial condition. although we make every effort to limit our exposure to catastrophic risks through volatility management and reinsurance programs, these efforts do not eliminate all risk. catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards), fires and man-made events such as terrorist attacks. historically, most of our property &amp; casualty catastrophe-related claims have related to homeowners coverages. however, catastrophes may also affect other property &amp; casualty coverages. due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence, timing and severity of catastrophes. in addition, changing climate conditions, primarily rising global temperatures, may increase the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes such as hurricanes, tornadoes and floods. we have hurricane exposure in coastal sections of the northeastern u.s. (including lower new york, new jersey, connecticut, rhode island and massachusetts), the south atlantic states (including virginia, north carolina, south carolina, georgia and florida) and the gulf coast (including alabama, mississippi, louisiana and texas). we also have some earthquake exposure, primarily along the new madrid fault line in the central u.s. and in the pacific northwest. consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we establish liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. we cannot be certain that the liabilities we have established will be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities. from time to time, states have passed legislation that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage risk, such as legislation restricting an insurer's ability to withdraw from catastrophe-prone areas. while we attempt to limit our exposure to acceptable levels, subject to restrictions imposed by insurance regulatory authorities, a catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. most of the jurisdictions in which our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business require life, health, and property &amp; casualty insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations. these associations are organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers, who may become impaired, insolvent or fail, for example, following the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events. these associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is engaged. in addition, certain states have government owned or controlled organizations providing life, health, and property &amp; casualty insurance to their citizens. the activities of such organizations could also place additional stress on the adequacy of guaranty fund assessments. many of these organizations also have the power to levy assessments similar to those of the guaranty associations described above. some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. see business regulation u.s. regulation insurance regulation guaranty associations and similar arrangements and business regulation international regulation. while in the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied against metlife have not been material, it is possible that a large catastrophic event could render such guaranty funds inadequate and we may be called upon to contribute additional amounts, which may have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations in a particular period. we have established liabilities for guaranty fund assessments that we consider adequate, but additional liabilities may be necessary. see note 21 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. our ability to manage this risk and the profitability of our property &amp; casualty, health and life insurance businesses depends in part on our ability to obtain catastrophe reinsurance, which may not be available at commercially acceptable rates in the future. see reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses. our statutory life insurance reserve financings may be subject to cost increases and new financings may be subject to limited market capacity we currently utilize capital markets solutions to finance a portion of our statutory reserve requirements for several products, including, but not limited to, our level premium term life subject to the naic model regulation valuation of life insurance policies (commonly referred to as xxx), and universal and variable life policies with secondary guarantees ( ulsg ) subject to naic actuarial guideline 38 (commonly referred to as axxx), as well as mlic's closed block. while we have financing facilities in place for certain previously written business, certain of these facilities are subject to cost increases upon the occurrence of specified ratings downgrades of metlife or are subject to periodic re-pricing. any resulting cost increases could negatively impact our financial results. 65 table of contents future capacity for these statutory reserve funding structures in the marketplace is not guaranteed. currently, state insurance regulators and the naic are investigating the use of captive reinsurers and offshore entities to reinsure insurance risks. see regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. insurance regulators in a few states, including new york and california, have imposed a moratorium on new reinsurance transactions between life insurers domiciled in those states and captive reinsurers. if additional state insurance regulators determine to restrict the use of captive reinsurers for purposes of funding reserve requirements or capacity in the capital markets otherwise becomes unavailable for a prolonged period of time, thereby hindering our ability to obtain funding for these new structures, our ability to continue the financing of our statutory reserve requirements for our previously written business in a cost effective manner may be impacted. after the separation, statutory life financing will be less of a risk factor, given our discontinuance of retail life sales. competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability we believe competition amongst insurance companies is based on a number of factors, including service, product features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, e-business capabilities and name recognition. we compete globally with a large number of other insurance companies, as well as non-insurance financial services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset managers, for individual consumers, employers and other group customers and agents and other distributors of insurance and investment products. some of these companies offer a broader array of products, have more competitive pricing or, with respect to other insurance companies, have higher claims paying ability ratings. some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete. in some circumstances, national banks that sell annuity products of life insurers may also have pre-existing customer bases for financial services products. additionally, many of our group insurance products are underwritten annually. there is a risk that group purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors than they could renewing coverage with us. these competitive pressures may adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell our products in the future. furthermore, the investment management and securities brokerage businesses have relatively few barriers to entry and continually attract new entrants. see business competition. the insurance industry distributes many of its individual products through other financial institutions such as banks and broker-dealers. an increase in bank and broker-dealer consolidation activity may negatively impact the industry's sales, and such consolidation could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market insurance products to our current customer base or to expand our customer base. consolidation of distributors and/or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us. in addition, since numerous aspects of our business are subject to regulation, legislative and other changes affecting the regulatory environment for our business may have, over time, the effect of supporting or burdening some aspects of the financial services industry more than others. this can affect our competitive position within the life insurance industry and within the broader financial services industry. see business regulation, regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth, and regulatory and legal risks changes in u.s. federal, state securities and state insurance laws and regulations may affect our operations and our profitability. if our business does not perform well, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our goodwill or other long-lived assets or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition we perform our goodwill impairment testing using the fair value approach, which requires the use of estimates and judgment, at the reporting unit level. a reporting unit is the operating segment or a business one level below the operating segment under certain circumstances. the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the business, which may be adversely impacted by prolonged market declines. if it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, we must write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. such writedowns could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates goodwill and notes 1 and 11 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate, also require impairment testing. this testing is done to determine whether changes in circumstances indicate that we will be unable to recover the carrying amount of the asset group. such writedowns could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. 66 table of contents deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities. deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. factors in management's determination include the performance of the business including the ability to generate future taxable income. if, based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. in addition, changes in the corporate tax rates could affect the value of our deferred tax assets and may require a write-off of some of those assets. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates income taxes. if our business does not perform well or if actual experience versus estimates used in valuing and amortizing dac, deferred sales inducements ( dsi ) and voba vary significantly, we may be required to accelerate the amortization and/or impair the dac, dsi and voba which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition we incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal insurance business. costs that are related directly to the successful acquisition of new and renewal insurance business are deferred and referred to as dac. bonus amounts credited to certain policyholders, either immediately upon receiving a deposit or as excess interest credits for a period of time, are deferred and referred to as dsi. voba represents the excess of book value over the estimated fair value of acquired insurance, annuity, and investment-type contracts in-force at the acquisition date. the estimated fair value of the acquired liabilities is based on actuarially determined projections, by each block of business, of future policy and contract charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account performance, surrenders, operating expenses, investment returns, nonperformance risk adjustment and other factors. dac, dsi and voba related to fixed and variable universal life and deferred annuity contracts are amortized in proportion to actual and expected future gross profits and for most participating contracts in proportion to actual and expected future gross margins. the amount of future gross profit or margin is dependent principally on investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest crediting rates, dividends paid to policyholders, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties and certain economic variables, such as inflation. of these factors, we anticipate that investment returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of dac for the aforementioned contracts. if actual gross profits or margins are less than originally expected, then the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to net income. significant or sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of dac, dsi and voba related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to net income. such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends impact of a sustained low interest rate environment for a discussion of how significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates deferred policy acquisition costs and value of business acquired and note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further consideration of dac and voba. guarantees within certain of our products may decrease our earnings, increase the volatility of our results, result in higher risk management costs and expose us to increased counterparty risk certain of our variable annuity products include guaranteed benefits, including guaranteed minimum death benefits ( gmdbs ), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits ( gmwbs ), guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits ( gmabs ), and guaranteed minimum income benefits ( gmibs ). certain of our interest rate sensitive products include a minimum crediting rate feature which could be guaranteed for a period of time or life time of the policies. these guarantees are designed to protect policyholders against significant downturns in equity markets and interest rates. any such periods of significant and sustained downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, or reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of our liabilities associated with those products. an increase in these liabilities would result in a decrease in our net income. we use derivatives and other risk management strategies to hedge the economic exposure inherent in these liabilities. these economically effective hedges do not always qualify for hedge accounting treatment, and, as result, such non-qualifying derivatives may introduce volatility in the results of our operations, including net income, to the extent the financial measurement of the hedged liability does not fully reflect the sensitivity to the underlying economic exposure. 67 table of contents we also use derivatives and other risk management strategies to directly mitigate the volatility in net income associated with certain of these liabilities that are measured at fair value. these strategies involve the use of reinsurance and derivatives, which may not be completely effective. for example, in the event that reinsurers, derivative counterparties or central clearinghouses are unable or unwilling to pay, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefits. see if the counterparties to our reinsurance or indemnification arrangements or to the derivatives we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, hedging instruments may not effectively offset the costs of guarantees or may otherwise be insufficient in relation to our obligations. furthermore, we are subject to the risk that changes in policyholder behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events, produce economic losses not addressed by the risk management techniques employed. these, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including net income, capitalization, financial condition or liquidity, including our ability to receive dividends from our operating insurance companies. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations policyholder liabilities variable annuity guarantees and note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further consideration of the risks associated with guaranteed benefits. capital-related risks legal and regulatory restrictions and uncertainty and restrictions under the terms of certain of our securities may prevent us from repurchasing our stock and paying dividends at the level we wish the declaration and payment of dividends is subject to the discretion of our board of directors, and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements, future prospects, regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by metlife, inc.'s insurance subsidiaries and other factors deemed relevant by the board. there is no requirement or assurance that we will declare and pay any dividends. if metlife, inc.'s designation as a non-bank sifi is reinstated, we also may be subject to restrictions arising from federal reserve regulation, including capital planning and stress testing requirements. the capital requirements that will apply to non-bank sifis are unclear. furthermore, if additional capital requirements are imposed on metlife, inc. as a g-sii, its ability to pay dividends could be reduced by any such additional capital requirements that might be imposed. see regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. in addition, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and repurchase our common stock is subject to restrictions under the terms of our preferred stock, junior subordinated debentures and trust securities. these instruments have so called dividend stopper provisions for situations where we may be experiencing financial stress. junior subordinated debentures include metlife's fixed-to-floating exchangeable surplus trust securities, which are exchangeable for junior subordinated debentures, and which contain terms with the same substantive effects for these purposes as do the terms of metlife, inc.'s junior subordinated debentures. in addition, our ability to pay dividends on our preferred stock and interest on our junior subordinated debentures is also restricted by the terms of those securities. we may also be restricted from time to time in our ability to repurchase shares or to enter into share repurchase programs under rule 10b5-1 of the exchange act. that rule requires, among other things, that we establish any share repurchase program in good faith at a time when we are not aware of any material non-public information in order for us to have an affirmative defense against accusations of insider trading. therefore, we may be unable to repurchase shares or to enter into share repurchase programs during various periods of time, including periods of significant corporate reorganization such as a spin-off or a sale of a substantial portion of the company. regulatory restrictions metlife, inc. may not be able to pay dividends if it does not receive sufficient funds from its operating subsidiaries, which are themselves subject to separate regulatory restrictions on their ability to pay dividends. see as a holding company, metlife, inc. depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends, a major component of holding company free cash flow. our ability to pay dividends, repurchase common stock or other securities or engage in other transactions that could affect our capital may also be affected if metlife, inc. is reinstated as a non-bank sifi or if restrictions applicable to g-siis are imposed upon us. see regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth, business regulation u.s. regulation potential regulation as a non-bank sifi and business regulation international regulation global systemically important insurers. 68 table of contents dividend stopper provisions in our preferred stock and junior subordinated debentures certain terms of our preferred stock and our junior subordinated debentures may prevent us from repurchasing our common stock or paying dividends on our common stock in certain circumstances. metlife, inc. also has entered into certain replacement capital covenants. these covenants limit our ability to eliminate these restrictions through the repayment, redemption or purchase of preferred stock or junior subordinated debentures by requiring metlife, with some limitations, to receive cash proceeds during a specified period from the sale of specified replacement securities prior to any repayment, redemption or purchase. see note 14 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for a description of such covenants in effect with respect to junior subordinated debentures. if we have not paid the full dividends on our preferred stock for the latest completed dividend period, we may not repurchase or pay dividends on our common stock during a dividend period. under our junior subordinated debentures, if we have not paid in full the accrued interest through the most recent interest payment date on our junior subordinated debentures, we may not repurchase or pay dividends on our common stock or other capital stock (including the preferred stock), subject to certain exceptions. trigger events for the restrictions on the payment of dividends on our preferred stock and restrictions on the payment of interest on our junior subordinated debentures in addition, the preferred stock and the junior subordinated debentures contain provisions that would automatically suspend the payment of preferred stock dividends and interest on junior subordinated debentures if metlife, inc. fails to meet certain tests ( trigger events ). in such cases, and subject to the terms of the instruments, metlife, inc. could make payments up to the amount of net proceeds from sales of (i) common stock during the 90 days preceding the dividend declaration date or (ii) common stock or certain kinds of warrants to purchase common stock generally during the 180 days prior to the interest payment date (the new equity proceeds ). a trigger event would occur if: the rbc ratio of metlife's largest u.s. insurance subsidiaries in the aggregate (as defined in the applicable instrument) were to be less than 175% of the company action level based on the subsidiaries' prior year annual financial statements filed (generally around march 1) with state insurance commissioners; or at the end of a quarter ( final quarter end test date ), consolidated gaap net income for the four-quarter period ending two quarters before such quarter-end (the preliminary quarter end test date ) is zero or a negative amount and the consolidated gaap stockholders' equity, minus aoci (the adjusted stockholders' equity amount ), as of the final quarter end test date and the preliminary quarter end test date, declined by 10% or more from its level 10 quarters before the final quarter end test date (the benchmark quarter end test date ). the trigger event would continue until there is no longer a trigger event at the specified time, and the adjusted stockholders' equity amount is no longer 10% or more below its level at each benchmark quarter end test date that is associated with a trigger event. we currently expect that, when we separate brighthouse financial, our adjusted stockholders' equity amount will decline by at least 10% in the quarter of the separation. the adjusted stockholders' equity amount on the preliminary quarter end test date at the end of that quarter, and seven subsequent quarters, will be at least 10% less than the amount on the applicable benchmark quarter end test date (in the absence of some other increase in the adjusted stockholders' equity amount). if, on any of those preliminary quarter end test dates, four quarter consolidated gaap net income is zero or less, a trigger event would occur unless, prior to the corresponding final quarter end test date, the adjusted stockholders' equity amount is greater than 90% of the amount of the adjusted stockholders' equity on the benchmark quarter end test date. after a trigger event, we would only be permitted to pay dividends on the preferred stock and interest on the junior subordinated debentures to the extent the new equity proceeds were sufficient to do so. in addition, if the new equity proceeds were insufficient to make such payments, the dividend stopper provisions would come into effect and we would be unable to repurchase or pay dividends on our common stock. 69 table of contents if, for example, we complete the separation in the third quarter of 2017 and the four quarter consolidated gaap net income is zero or less at the end of that quarter (the preliminary quarter end test date), a trigger event may occur that would restrict payments of dividends on the preferred stock and interest on the junior subordinated debentures beginning in the second quarter of 2018 after the final quarter end test date. in that case, we would have to suspend our dividend payments on, and repurchases of, our common stock, unless we could make payments in full on the preferred and the junior subordinated debentures, in each case, using the available applicable new equity proceeds. the payment restrictions on the preferred and junior subordinated debt instruments, and the restrictions on repurchases of and payments of dividends on common stock, could continue until there is no longer a trigger event and the adjusted stockholders' equity amount is greater than 90% of its level at the benchmark quarter end test date, which in this example would be the level at the end of the third quarter of 2015. we are considering measures that would reduce or eliminate these potential risks. among other possibilities, we may seek to exclude the impact of the separation on shareholders' equity for purposes of the restrictions on payments of dividends and interest in respect of the preferred stock and junior subordinated debentures, respectively. however, there can be no assurance we will take these or any other mitigating actions. dividends on our preferred stock are subject to declaration by our board of directors in addition, dividends on our preferred stock are subject to declaration each quarter by our board of directors. if our board of directors does not declare dividends on the preferred stock for any quarterly dividend period, the dividend stopper provisions in our preferred stock would prevent us from repurchasing or paying dividends on our common stock for that period. optional deferral of interest on the junior subordinated debentures the junior subordinated debentures provide that we may, at our option and provided that certain conditions are met, defer payment of interest without giving rise to an event of default for periods of up to 10 years. in that case, after five years metlife, inc. would be obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to sell equity securities to raise proceeds to pay the interest. we would not be subject to limitations on the number of deferral periods that we could begin, so long as all accrued and unpaid interest is paid with respect to prior deferral periods. if we were to defer payments of interest, the dividend stopper provisions in the junior subordinated debentures would thus prevent us from repurchasing or paying dividends on our common stock or other capital stock (including the preferred stock) during the period of deferral, subject to exceptions. see note 16 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about these restrictions. as a holding company, metlife, inc. depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends, a major component of holding company free cash flow metlife, inc. is a holding company for its insurance and financial subsidiaries and does not have any significant operations of its own. dividends from its subsidiaries and permitted payments to it under its tax sharing agreement with its subsidiaries are its principal sources of cash to meet its obligations and to pay preferred and common stock dividends. if the cash metlife, inc. receives from its subsidiaries is insufficient for it to fund its debt service and other holding company obligations, metlife, inc. may be required to raise cash through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of additional equity or the sale of assets. dividends that metlife, inc. expects to receive from brighthouse and other companies in connection with the separation are subject to contingencies that include investor interest, ratings actions, and the macroeconomic environment, among others. these contingencies may affect brighthouse's ability to incur debt to pay a portion of these dividends and otherwise affect those companies' ability to pay these dividends. the payment of dividends and other distributions to metlife, inc. by its u.s. insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. in general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits require insurance regulatory approval. in addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of dividends or other payments by its insurance subsidiaries to metlife, inc. if they determine that the payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. the payment of dividends and other distributions by insurance companies is also influenced by business conditions and rating agency considerations. see business regulation u.s. regulation insurance regulation and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources metlife, inc. liquidity and capital sources dividends from subsidiaries. see also regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. 70 table of contents any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or advances by our foreign subsidiaries and branches to metlife, inc. could be subject to taxation, insurance regulatory or other restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdiction in which such foreign subsidiaries operate. see business regulation international regulation and risks related to our business our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability. from time to time, metlife, inc. or its subsidiaries may establish net worth maintenance or other support agreements with other subsidiaries. those commitments may limit such supported subsidiary's ability to pay metlife, inc. dividends, or require metlife, inc. or another subsidiary to transfer capital to such supported subsidiary, in either case limiting capital that is available for other purposes. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources metlife, inc. liquidity and capital uses support agreements. dividends from operating subsidiaries are a major component of holding company free cash flow. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations non-gaap and other financial disclosures. if metlife, inc.'s operating subsidiaries were unable to make expected dividend payments to metlife, inc., we may be unable to meet our free cash flow goals and our ability to distribute cash to shareholders could be adversely affected. operational risks our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business our enterprise risk management program is designed to mitigate material risks and loss to the company. we have developed and continue to develop our risk management policies and procedures to reflect the ongoing review of our risks and expect to continue to do so in the future. nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not be comprehensive and may not identify every risk to which we are exposed. many of our methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior to model or project potential future exposure. models used by our business are based on assumptions and projections which may be inaccurate. business decisions based on incorrect or misused model output and reports could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. model risk may be the result of a model being misspecified for its intended purpose, being misused or producing incorrect or inappropriate results. models used by our business may not operate properly and could contain errors related to model inputs, data, assumptions, calculations, or output. we perform model validations which are conducted by experienced professionals with the requisite authority and technical ability to effectively challenge the models. the ongoing model validation process could give rise to adjustments to models that may adversely impact our results of operations. as a result, these methods may not fully predict future exposures, which can be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate. other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. this information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. furthermore, there can be no assurance that we can effectively review and monitor all risks or that all of our employees will follow our risk management policies and procedures, nor can there be any assurance that our risk management policies and procedures will enable us to accurately identify all risks and limit our exposures based on our assessments. in addition, we may have to implement more extensive and perhaps different risk management policies and procedures under pending regulations. see business regulation u.s. regulation potential regulation as a non-bank sifi, business regulation international regulation global systemically important insurers and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio and the level of claim losses we incur the continued threat of terrorism, both within the u.s. and abroad, ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility in global financial markets and result in loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. the value of assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the credit and equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. companies in which we maintain investments may suffer losses as a result of financial, commercial or economic disruptions and such disruptions might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or principal on their securities or mortgage loans. terrorist actions also could disrupt our operations centers in the u.s. or abroad and result in higher than anticipated claims under our insurance policies. see economic environment and capital markets-related risks if difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally persist, they may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. 71 table of contents the failure in cyber- or other information security systems, as well as the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning, could result in a loss or disclosure of confidential information, damage to our reputation and impairment of our ability to conduct business effectively our business is highly dependent upon the effective operation of our computer systems. we rely on these systems throughout our business for a variety of functions, including processing claims, transactions and applications, providing information to customers and distributors, performing actuarial analyses and maintaining financial records. we also retain confidential and proprietary information on our computer systems and we rely on sophisticated technologies to maintain the security of that information. our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access, cyberattacks or other computer-related penetrations. while, to date, metlife has not experienced a material breach of cybersecurity, administrative and technical controls and other preventive actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber-incidents and protect our information technology may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems. in some cases, such physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches may not be immediately detected. this may impede or interrupt our business operations and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the availability and cost of insurance for operational and other risks relating to our business and systems may change and any such change may affect our results of operations. in the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, epidemic, industrial accident, blackout, computer virus, terrorist attack, cyberattack or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial position, particularly if those problems affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data. in addition, in the event that a significant number of our managers, or employees generally, were unavailable following a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. these interruptions also may interfere with our suppliers' ability to provide goods and services and our employees' ability to perform their job responsibilities. the failure of our computer systems and/or our disaster recovery plans for any reason could cause significant interruptions in our operations and result in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to our customers. such a failure could harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions and legal claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. although we conduct due diligence, negotiate contractual provisions and, in many cases, conduct periodic reviews of our vendors, distributors, and other third parties that provide operational or information technology services to us to confirm compliance with metlife's information security standards, the failure of such third parties' computer systems and/or their disaster recovery plans for any reason might cause significant interruptions in our operations and result in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to our customers. such a failure could harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions and legal claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. while we maintain cyber liability insurance that provides both third-party liability and first-party liability coverages, our insurance may not be sufficient to protect us against all losses. metlife, inc. and its subsidiaries maintain a primary cybersecurity and privacy liability insurance policy with a limit of $15 million, and have additional coverage for cybersecurity and privacy liability available under blended professional liability excess coverage policies with a total limit of $210 million. there can be no assurance that our information security policies and systems in place can prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information, including nonpublic personal information. 72 table of contents any failure to protect the confidentiality of client information could adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations pursuant to u.s. federal and state laws, and laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate, various government agencies have established rules protecting the privacy and security of personal information. in addition, most u.s. states and a number of jurisdictions outside the united states, have enacted laws, which vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, to safeguard the privacy and security of personal information. many of our employees have access to, and routinely process, personal information of clients through a variety of media, including information technology systems. we rely on various internal processes and controls to protect the confidentiality of client information that is accessible to, or in the possession of, our company and our employees. it is possible that an employee could, intentionally or unintentionally, disclose or misappropriate confidential client information or our data could be the subject of a cybersecurity attack. if we fail to maintain adequate internal controls or if our employees fail to comply with our policies and procedures, misappropriation or intentional or unintentional inappropriate disclosure or misuse of client information could occur. such internal control inadequacies or non-compliance could materially damage our reputation or lead to civil or criminal penalties, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we analyze customer data to better manage our business. there has been increased scrutiny, including from u.s. state regulators, regarding the use of big data techniques such as price optimization. we cannot predict what, if any, actions may be taken with regard to big data, but any inquiries could cause reputational harm and any limitations could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our associates may take excessive risks which could negatively affect our financial condition and business as an insurance enterprise, we are in the business of accepting certain risks. the associates who conduct our business, including executive officers and other members of management, sales managers, investment professionals, product managers, sales agents, wholesalers, underwriters, and other associates, do so in part by making decisions and choices that involve exposing us to risk. these include decisions such as setting underwriting guidelines and standards, product design and pricing, determining what assets to purchase for investment and when to sell them, which business opportunities to pursue, and other decisions. we endeavor, in the design and implementation of our compensation programs and practices, to avoid giving our associates incentives to take excessive risks; however, associates may take such risks regardless of the structure of our compensation programs and practices. similarly, although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor associates' business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks, and to prevent employee misconduct, these controls and procedures may not be effective. if our associates take excessive risks, the impact of those risks could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and business operations. general risks metlife, inc.'s board of directors may influence the outcome of stockholder votes on many matters due to the voting provisions of the metlife policyholder trust under the plan, we established the metlife policyholder trust to hold the shares of metlife, inc. common stock allocated to eligible policyholders not receiving cash or policy credits under the plan. as of february 23, 2017, the trust held 162,077,300 shares, or 14.9%, of the outstanding shares of metlife, inc. common stock. because of voting provisions of the trust and the number of shares held by it, the trust may affect the outcome of matters brought to a stockholder vote. except on votes regarding certain fundamental corporate actions described below, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held in the trust in accordance with the recommendations given by metlife, inc.'s board of directors to its stockholders or, if the board gives no such recommendations, as directed by the board. as a result of the voting provisions of the trust, the board of directors may be able to influence the outcome of votes on matters submitted to a vote of stockholders, excluding certain fundamental corporate actions, so long as the trust holds a substantial number of shares of common stock. 73 table of contents if the vote relates to fundamental corporate actions specified in the trust, the trustee will solicit instructions from the trust beneficiaries and vote all shares held in the trust in proportion to the instructions it receives. these actions include: an election or removal of directors in which a stockholder has properly nominated one or more candidates in opposition to a nominee or nominees of metlife, inc.'s board of directors or a vote on a stockholder's proposal to oppose a board nominee for director, remove a director for cause or fill a vacancy caused by the removal of a director by stockholders, subject to certain conditions; a merger or consolidation, a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the assets, or a recapitalization or dissolution, of metlife, inc., in each case requiring a vote of stockholders under applicable delaware law; any transaction that would result in an exchange or conversion of shares of common stock held by the trust for cash, securities or other property; and any proposal requiring metlife, inc.'s board of directors to amend or redeem the rights under metlife, inc.'s stockholder rights plan, other than a proposal with respect to which we have received advice of nationally-recognized legal counsel to the effect that the proposal is not a proper subject for stockholder action under delaware law. metlife, inc. does not currently have a stockholder rights plan. if a vote concerns any of these fundamental corporate actions, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held by the trust in proportion to the instructions it received, which will give disproportionate weight to the instructions actually given by trust beneficiaries. the metlife policyholder trust agreement provides that we may terminate the trust once the percentage of outstanding shares held in the trust falls to 25%. the winding up of the trust must commence 90 days after we provide the trustee with notice that the percentage of outstanding shares held in the trust is 10% or less. in connection with any termination of the trust, all of the shares of common stock then held in the trust will need to be distributed to the respective trust beneficiaries, unless we offer to purchase all or a portion of such trust shares. in connection with the termination of the trust and such a distribution, we may incur costs related to regulatory filings, mailings to trust beneficiaries or others, and costs related to an increase in the number of shareholders, which may include increased mailing and proxy solicitation expenses. after such a distribution, the addition of the respective trust beneficiaries to our shareholder base with full voting rights may have a significant impact on matters brought to a stockholder vote and other aspects of our corporate governance. changes in accounting standards issued by the financial accounting standards board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements our financial statements are subject to the application of gaap, which is periodically revised and/or expanded. accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the financial accounting standards board (the fasb ). the impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in our reports filed with the sec. see note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. an assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and official positions of the fasb are determined only after extensive due process and deliberations. therefore, the effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. the required adoption of future accounting standards could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. changes in our assumptions regarding the discount rate, expected rate of return, mortality rates and expected increase in compensation used for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability we determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on our best estimates of future plan experience. these assumptions are reviewed regularly and include discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets, mortality rates, expected increases in compensation levels and expected medical inflation. changes in these assumptions may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. see note 18 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for details on how changes in these assumptions would affect plan costs. 74 table of contents we may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims we rely on a combination of contractual rights with third parties and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. although we endeavor to protect our rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. we may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. this would represent a diversion of resources that may be significant and our efforts may not prove successful. the inability to secure or protect our intellectual property assets could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete with other insurers and financial institutions. in addition, we may be subject to claims by third parties for (i) patent, trademark or copyright infringement, (ii) breach of patent, trademark or copyright license usage rights, or (iii) misappropriation of trade secrets. any such claims or resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability for damages. if we were found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party patent or other intellectual property right, we could in some circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or from utilizing and benefiting from certain patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties or implement a costly alternative. any of these scenarios could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may experience difficulty in marketing and distributing products through our distribution channels since the completion of the u.s. retail advisor force divestiture in july 2016, we primarily distribute our products through a variety of third-party distribution channels. we may periodically negotiate the terms of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. an interruption in certain key relationships could materially affect our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. a distributor has elected to suspend, and other distributors may elect to suspend, alter, reduce or terminate their distribution relationships with us for various reasons, including uncertainty related to the proposed separation, changes in our distribution strategy, adverse developments in our business, adverse rating agency actions or concerns about market-related risks. we are also at risk that key distribution partners may merge, change their business models in ways that affect how our products are sold, or terminate their distribution contracts with us, or that new distribution channels could emerge and adversely impact the effectiveness of our distribution efforts. an increase in bank and broker-dealer consolidation activity could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market products through these channels. consolidation of distributors and/or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us. when our products are distributed through unaffiliated firms, we may not be able to monitor or control the manner of their distribution despite our training and compliance programs. if our products are distributed by such firms in an inappropriate manner, or to customers for whom they are unsuitable, we may suffer reputational and other harm to our business. state laws, federal laws, our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws may delay, deter or prevent takeovers and business combinations that stockholders might consider in their best interests state laws, federal laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. for instance, such restrictions may prevent stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of metlife, inc.'s common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of metlife, inc.'s common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. 75 table of contents any person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would face various regulatory obstacles, including: applicable state insurance laws and regulations may delay or impede a business combination involving us by prohibiting an entity from acquiring control (generally presumed to exist at direct or indirect ownership of 10% or more of voting stock) of an insurance company domiciled in the united states without the prior approval of the domestic insurance regulator. many foreign jurisdictions in which we operate have similar regulatory approval requirements. if the acquiring entity is a bank or non-bank sifi, dodd-frank provisions that restrict or impede consolidations, mergers and acquisitions by systemically significant firms. see business regulation u.s. regulation potential regulation as a non-bank sifi enhanced prudential standards for non-bank sifis. provisions of the investment company act that require approval by the contract owners of our variable contracts in order to effectuate a change of control of any affiliated investment adviser to a mutual fund underlying our variable contracts. finra approval requirements for a change of control of any finra registered broker-dealer that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of metlife, inc. provisions of the delaware general corporation law may affect the ability of an interested stockholder (the owner of 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation) to engage in certain business combinations for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. in addition, metlife, inc.'s certificate of incorporation and by-laws also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests or may otherwise adversely affect prevailing market prices for metlife, inc.'s common stock. these provisions include: a prohibition on the calling of special meetings or action by written consent by stockholders; and advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates to the board of directors and stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings. a majority of the combined voting power of the outstanding shares entitled to vote generally in the election of directors may amend metlife, inc.'s certificate of incorporation or by-laws. this may allow shareholders to change the company's corporate governance and, therefore, make it more difficult for the board of directors to protect shareholders' interests, e.g., if they are presented with an acquisition proposal that undervalues the company. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 190 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management we have developed an integrated process for managing risk, which we conduct through multiple board and senior management committees (financial and non-financial) within the grm, alm unit, treasury department and investments department. the risk committee structure is designed to provide a consolidated enterprise-wide assessment and management of risk. the erc is responsible for reviewing all material risks to the enterprise and deciding on actions, if necessary, in the event risks exceed desired tolerances, taking into consideration industry best practices and the current environment to resolve or mitigate those risks. additional committees at the metlife, inc. and subsidiary insurance company level manage capital and risk positions, approve alm strategies and establish corporate business standards. global risk management independent from the lines of business, the centralized grm, led by the cro, collaborates and coordinates across all committees to ensure that all material risks are properly identified, measured, aggregated, managed and reported across the company. the cro reports to the ceo and is primarily responsible for maintaining and communicating the company's enterprise risk policies and for monitoring and analyzing all material risks. grm considers and monitors a full range of risks against the company's solvency, liquidity, earnings, business operations and reputation. grm's primary responsibilities consist of: implementing a corporate risk framework, which outlines our enterprise approach for managing risk; developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring, monitoring and controlling those risks identified in the corporate risk framework; coordinating own risk and solvency assessments for the board, senior management and regulator use; establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels; recommending risk appetite statements and investment general authorizations to the board; managing capital on an economic basis; recommending capital allocations on an economic capital basis; and reporting to (i) the finance and risk committee of metlife, inc.'s board of directors; (ii) the investment committee of metlife, inc.'s board of directors (iii) the compensation committee of metlife, inc.'s board of directors; and (iv) the financial and non-financial senior management committees on various aspects of risk. 190 table of contents asset/liability management we actively manage our assets using an approach that balances quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity, concentration and investment return. the goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income tax, risk-adjusted investment income and risk-adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are reasonably managed on a cash flow and duration basis. the alm process is the shared responsibility of the alm unit, grm, the portfolio management unit, and the senior members of the business segments and is governed by the alm committees. the alm committees' duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios, establishing investment guidelines and limits and providing oversight of the alm process on a periodic basis. the directives of the alm committees are carried out and monitored through alm working groups which are set up by product type. generally, our alm steering committee oversees the activities of the underlying alm committees. the alm steering committee reports to the erc. we establish target asset portfolios for each major insurance product or product group, which represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund our liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. the alm working groups monitor these strategies through regular review of portfolio metrics, such as effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality. market risk exposures we regularly analyze our exposure to interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market price risk. as a result of that analysis, we have determined that the estimated fair values of certain assets and liabilities are materially exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets. we have exposure to market risk through our insurance operations and investment activities. for purposes of this disclosure, market risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets. interest rates our exposure to interest rate changes results most significantly from our holdings of fixed maturity securities, as well as our interest rate sensitive liabilities. the fixed maturity securities include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities and abs, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium- and long-term interest rates. the interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include debt, policyholder account balances related to certain investment type contracts, and embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits which have the same type of interest rate exposure (medium- and long-term interest rates) as fixed maturity securities. see risk factors economic environment and capital markets-related risks we are exposed to significant global financial and capital markets risks which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and may cause our net investment income to vary from period to period. foreign currency exchange rates our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar results from our holdings in non-u.s. dollar denominated fixed maturity and equity securities, mortgage loans, and certain liabilities, as well as through our investments in foreign subsidiaries. the principal currencies that create foreign currency exchange rate risk in our investment portfolios and liabilities are the euro, the japanese yen and the british pound. selectively, we use u.s. dollar assets to support certain long-duration foreign currency liabilities. through our investments in foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures, we are primarily exposed to the japanese yen, the euro, the polish zloty, the british pound, the mexican peso, the chilean peso and the korean won. in addition to hedging with foreign currency swaps, forwards and options, local surplus in some countries is held entirely or in part in u.s. dollar assets which further minimizes exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. we have matched much of our foreign currency liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency assets, thereby reducing our risk to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. see risk factors risks related to our business fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our profitability. equity market along with investments in equity securities, we have exposure to equity market risk through certain liabilities that involve long-term guarantees on equity performance such as embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits and certain policyholder account balances. equity exposures associated with other limited partnership interests are excluded from this discussion as they are not considered financial instruments under gaap. management of market risk exposures we use a variety of strategies to manage interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market risk, including the use of derivatives. 191 table of contents interest rate risk management to manage interest rate risk, we analyze interest rate risk using various models, including multi-scenario cash flow projection models that forecast cash flows of the liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivatives. these projections involve evaluating the potential gain or loss on most of our in-force business under various increasing and decreasing interest rate environments. the nydfs regulations require that we perform some of these analyses annually as part of our review of the sufficiency of our regulatory reserves. for several of our legal entities, we maintain segmented operating and surplus asset portfolios for the purpose of alm and the allocation of investment income to product lines. for each segment, invested assets greater than or equal to the gaap liabilities and any non-invested assets allocated to the segment are maintained, with any excess allocated to corporate &amp; other. the business segments may reflect differences in legal entity, statutory line of business and any product market characteristic which may drive a distinct investment strategy with respect to duration, liquidity or credit quality of the invested assets. certain smaller entities make use of unsegmented general accounts for which the investment strategy reflects the aggregate characteristics of liabilities in those entities. we measure relative sensitivities of the value of our assets and liabilities to changes in key assumptions utilizing internal models. these models reflect specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting rates. in addition, these models include asset cash flow projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage loan prepayments and defaults. we employ product design, pricing and alm strategies to reduce the potential effects of interest rate movements. product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products and the ability to reset crediting rates for certain products. alm strategies include the use of derivatives and duration mismatch limits. we also use reinsurance to mitigate interest rate risk. common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, are also used to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and liability values to changes in interest rates. in computing the duration of liabilities, consideration is given to all policyholder guarantees and to how we intend to set indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or dividends. each asset portfolio has a duration target based on the liability duration and the investment objectives of that portfolio. where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity of available assets, we may support such liabilities with equity investments, derivatives or interest rate curve mismatch strategies. foreign currency exchange rate risk management metlife, inc. has a well-established enterprise fx (foreign exchange) risk policy to ensure metlife manages foreign currency exchange rate exposures within the company's risk tolerance. in general, investments backing specific liabilities are currency matched. this is achieved through direct investments in matching currency or through the use of fx derivatives. management of each of the company's segments, with oversight from the company's fx risk committee, is responsible for establishing limits and managing any foreign currency exchange rate exposure. we use foreign currency swaps, forwards and options to mitigate the liability exposure, risk of loss and financial statement volatility associated with our investments in foreign subsidiaries, foreign currency denominated fixed income investments and the sale of certain insurance products. equity market risk management we manage equity market risk on an integrated basis with other risks through our alm strategies, including the dynamic hedging of certain variable annuity guarantee benefits, as well as reinsurance, in order to limit losses, minimize exposure to large risks, and provide additional capacity for future growth. we also manage equity market risk exposure in our investment portfolio through the use of derivatives. these derivatives include exchange-traded equity futures, equity index options contracts, total rate of return swaps and equity variance swaps. this risk is managed by our alm unit in partnership with the investments department. 192 table of contents hedging activities we use derivative contracts primarily to hedge a wide range of risks including interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and equity market risk. derivative hedges are designed to reduce risk on an economic basis while considering their impact on financial results under different accounting regimes, including u.s. gaap and local statutory accounting. our derivative hedge programs vary depending on the type of risk being hedged. some hedge programs are asset or liability specific while others are portfolio hedges that reduce risk related to a group of liabilities or assets. our use of derivatives by major hedge programs is as follows: risks related to guarantee benefits we use a wide range of derivative contracts to mitigate the risk associated with variable annuity living guarantee benefits. these derivatives include equity and interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, currency futures/forwards, equity indexed options, total rate of return swaps, interest rate option contracts and equity variance swaps. minimum interest rate guarantees for certain liability contracts, we provide the contractholder a guaranteed minimum interest rate. these contracts include certain fixed annuities and other insurance liabilities. we purchase interest rate floors to reduce risk associated with these liability guarantees. reinvestment risk in long-duration liability contracts derivatives are used to hedge interest rate risk related to certain long-duration liability contracts. hedges include interest rate swaps and swaptions. foreign currency exchange rate risk we use currency swaps, forwards and options to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risk. these hedges are generally used to swap foreign currency denominated bonds, investments in foreign subsidiaries or equity market exposures to u.s. dollars. our foreign subsidiaries also use these hedges to swap non-local currency assets to local currency, to match liabilities . general alm hedging strategies in the ordinary course of managing our asset/liability risks, we use interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, interest rate floors and inflation swaps. these hedges are designed to reduce interest rate risk or inflation risk related to the existing assets or liabilities or related to expected future cash flows. risk measurement: sensitivity analysis we measure market risk related to our market sensitive assets and liabilities based on changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity market prices utilizing a sensitivity analysis. this analysis estimates the potential changes in estimated fair value based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity market prices. we believe that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the near term. in performing the analysis summarized below, we used market rates at december 31, 2016 . the sensitivity analysis separately calculates each of our market risk exposures (interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market) relating to our trading and non-trading assets and liabilities. we modeled the impact of changes in market rates and prices on the estimated fair values of our market sensitive assets and liabilities as follows: the net present values of our interest rate sensitive exposures resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates; the u.s. dollar equivalent estimated fair values of our foreign currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase in the value of the u.s. dollar compared to all foreign currencies or decrease in the value of the u.s. dollar compared to all foreign currencies) in foreign currency exchange rates; and the estimated fair value of our equity positions due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity market prices. 193 table of contents the sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as predictive of our future financial performance. we cannot ensure that our actual losses in any particular period will not exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. limitations related to this sensitivity analysis include: interest sensitive liabilities do not include $214.4 billion of insurance contracts, which are accounted for on a book value basis. management believes that the changes in the economic value of those contracts under changing interest rates would offset a significant portion of the fair value changes of interest sensitive assets. the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgage loans; foreign currency risk is not isolated for certain embedded derivatives within host asset and liability contracts, as the risk on these instruments is reflected as equity; for the derivatives that qualify as hedges, the impact on reported earnings may be materially different from the change in market values; the analysis excludes liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts and real estate holdings; and the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains unchanged throughout the period. accordingly, we use such models as tools and not as substitutes for the experience and judgment of our management. based on our analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and prices, we have determined that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the estimated fair value of certain assets and liabilities from interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market exposures. the table below illustrates the potential loss in estimated fair value for each market risk exposure of our market sensitive assets and liabilities at: december 31, 2016 (1) (in millions) interest rate risk (2) $ 7,540 foreign currency exchange rate risk (2) $ 6,823 equity market risk (2) $ 502 __________________ (1) in 2016, the company reinvested its trading securities portfolio into other asset classes and, at december 31, 2016, the company no longer held any actively traded securities. the potential losses in estimated fair value presented are for non-trading securities. (2) the risk sensitivities derived used a 10% increase to interest rates, a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies, and a 10% increase in equity prices. 194 table of contents the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our interest sensitive financial instruments due to a 10% increase in yield curve by type of asset or liability at: december 31, 2016 notional amount estimated fair value (1) assuming a 10% increase in the yield curve (in millions) assets fixed maturity securities $ 350,889 $ (6,251 ) equity securities $ 3,194 (1 ) fvo general account securities 611 (2 ) mortgage loans $ 75,129 (687 ) policy loans $ 13,015 (126 ) short-term investments $ 7,810 (3 ) other invested assets $ 662 cash and cash equivalents $ 17,877 accrued investment income $ 3,988 premiums, reinsurance and other receivables $ 5,161 (244 ) other assets $ 269 (5 ) embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) $ 380 (23 ) total assets $ (7,342 ) liabilities (3) policyholder account balances $ 122,908 $ 657 payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions $ 33,264 short-term debt $ 242 long-term debt $ 18,016 382 collateral financing arrangements $ 3,775 junior subordinated debt securities $ 3,982 105 other liabilities $ 2,028 41 embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) $ 4,105 621 total liabilities $ 1,806 derivative instruments interest rate and interest rate total return swaps $ 94,365 $ 4,507 $ (1,582 ) interest rate floors $ 14,201 $ 178 (20 ) interest rate caps $ 90,400 $ 135 46 interest rate futures $ 6,081 $ (60 ) interest rate options $ 20,854 $ 763 (126 ) interest rate forwards $ 4,645 $ (395 ) (137 ) synthetic gics $ 5,566 $ foreign currency swaps $ 42,306 $ 958 (91 ) foreign currency forwards $ 18,059 $ (863 ) (4 ) currency futures $ 915 $ currency options $ 12,493 $ 281 (12 ) credit default swaps $ 14,683 $ 154 equity futures $ 12,494 $ 65 (2 ) equity index options $ 54,028 $ (135 ) (18 ) equity variance swaps $ 23,157 $ (533 ) 2 equity total return swaps $ 3,901 $ (158 ) total derivative instruments $ (2,004 ) net change $ (7,540 ) __________________ (1) separate account assets and liabilities and contractholder-directed unit-linked investments and associated policyholder account balances, which are interest rate sensitive, are not included herein as any interest rate risk is borne by the contractholder. mortgage loans, fvo general account securities and long-term debt exclude $ 136 million , $8 million and $35 million, respectively, related to cses. see note 8 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding cses. 195 table of contents (2) embedded derivatives are recognized on the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. (3) excludes $ 214.4 billion of liabilities, at carrying value, pursuant to insurance contracts reported within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances. these liabilities would economically offset a significant portion of the net change in fair value of our financial instruments resulting from a 10% increase in the yield curve. sensitivity to rising interest rates increased by $1.7 billion, or 29%, to $7.5 billion at december 31, 2016 from $5.8 billion at december 31, 2015. the change was primarily due to an increase of $1.1 billion from the use of derivatives, used by the company as hedges against low interest rates. sensitivity also increased as a result of increased rates, since the sensitivity is calculated based on a 10% increase in the yield curve, and lengthening of asset durations. 196 table of contents the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our portfolio due to a 10% increase in the u.s. dollar compared to all foreign currencies at: december 31, 2016 notional amount estimated fair value (1) assuming a 10% increase in the foreign exchange rate (in millions) assets fixed maturity securities $ 350,889 $ (8,830 ) equity securities $ 3,194 (79 ) fvo general account securities 611 (6 ) mortgage loans $ 75,129 (745 ) policy loans $ 13,015 (147 ) short-term investments $ 7,810 (293 ) other invested assets $ 662 (157 ) cash and cash equivalents $ 17,877 (393 ) accrued investment income $ 3,988 (75 ) premiums, reinsurance and other receivables $ 5,161 (110 ) other assets $ 269 (6 ) embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) $ 380 (14 ) total assets $ (10,855 ) liabilities (3) policyholder account balances $ 122,908 $ 3,278 payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions $ 33,264 101 long-term debt $ 18,016 110 other liabilities $ 2,028 4 embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) $ 4,105 140 total liabilities $ 3,633 derivative instruments interest rate and interest rate total return swaps $ 94,365 $ 4,507 $ (67 ) interest rate floors $ 14,201 $ 178 interest rate caps $ 90,400 $ 135 interest rate futures $ 6,081 $ 1 interest rate options $ 20,854 $ 763 (46 ) interest rate forwards $ 4,645 $ (395 ) synthetic gics $ 5,566 $ foreign currency swaps $ 42,306 $ 958 686 foreign currency forwards $ 18,059 $ (863 ) (558 ) currency futures $ 915 $ (90 ) currency options $ 12,493 $ 281 472 credit default swaps $ 14,683 $ 154 (5 ) equity futures $ 12,494 $ 65 4 equity index options $ 54,028 $ (135 ) 1 equity variance swaps $ 23,157 $ (533 ) equity total return swaps $ 3,901 $ (158 ) 1 total derivative instruments $ 399 net change $ (6,823 ) __________________ (1) does not necessarily represent those financial instruments solely subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk. separate account assets and liabilities and contractholder-directed unit-linked investments and associated policyholder account balances, which are foreign currency exchange rate sensitive, are not included herein as any foreign currency exchange rate risk is borne by the contractholder. mortgage loans, fvo general securities and long-term debt exclude $ 136 million , $8 million and $35 million, respectively, related to cses. see note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for information regarding cses. 197 table of contents (2) embedded derivatives are recognized on the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. (3) excludes $ 214.4 billion of liabilities, at carrying value, pursuant to insurance contracts reported within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances. these liabilities would economically offset a significant portion of the net change in fair value of our financial instruments resulting from a 10% increase in foreign currency exchange rates. sensitivity to foreign currency exchange rates increased by $1.2 billion, or 20%, to $6.8 billion at december 31, 2016 from $5.7 billion at december 31, 2015. this change was primarily due to an increase in the fair value of foreign currency assets which may be backing foreign currency liabilities that are not included in this analysis. the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our portfolio due to a 10% increase in equity prices by type of asset or liability at: december 31, 2016 notional amount estimated fair value (1) assuming a 10% increase in equity prices (in millions) assets equity securities $ 3,194 $ 319 embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) $ 380 (21 ) total assets $ 298 liabilities policyholder account balances $ 122,908 $ embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) $ 4,105 1,001 total liabilities $ 1,001 derivative instruments interest rate and interest rate total return swaps $ 94,365 $ 4,507 $ interest rate floors $ 14,201 $ 178 interest rate caps $ 90,400 $ 135 interest rate futures $ 6,081 $ interest rate options $ 20,854 $ 763 interest rate forwards $ 4,645 $ (395 ) synthetic gics $ 5,566 $ foreign currency swaps $ 42,306 $ 958 foreign currency forwards $ 18,059 $ (863 ) currency futures $ 915 $ currency options $ 12,493 $ 281 credit default swaps $ 14,683 $ 154 equity futures $ 12,494 $ 65 (1,205 ) equity index options $ 54,028 $ (135 ) (183 ) equity variance swaps $ 23,157 $ (533 ) 15 equity total return swaps $ 3,901 $ (158 ) (428 ) total derivative instruments $ (1,801 ) net change $ (502 ) __________________ (1) does not necessarily represent those financial instruments solely subject to equity price risk. additionally, separate account assets and liabilities and contractholder-directed unit-linked investments and associated policyholder account balances, which are equity market sensitive, are not included herein as any equity market risk is borne by the contractholder. (2) embedded derivatives are recognized on the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. sensitivity to rising equity prices increased by $483 million to $502 million at december 31, 2016 from $19 million at december 31, 2015. this increase was primarily due to the expansion of our macro hedge programs, which we use as hedges against equity declines. 198 table of contentsrisk factors 39 risk factors risks related to the material weaknesses we have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations and stock price we have identified material weaknesses in metlife, inc.'s internal control over financial reporting related to the administrative and accounting practices of certain retirement and income solutions ( ris ) group annuity reserves, the untimely communication and escalation of issues regarding those reserves throughout the company, and controls over the calculation of reserves relating to variable annuity guarantees assumed from a former operating joint venture in japan and included within metlife holdings. based on the material weaknesses, our management has determined that metlife, inc. has not maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2017, and our independent registered public accounting firm, deloitte and touche llp, has expressed an adverse opinion on metlife inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2017. see controls and procedures for a discussion of metlife inc.'s internal control over financial reporting and the material weaknesses. the material weaknesses, or a failure to promptly remediate them, may adversely affect our business, our reputation, our results of operations and the market price of our common stock. if we are unable to remediate the material weaknesses in a timely manner, our investors, regulators, customers and other business partners may lose confidence in our business or our financial reports, and our access to capital markets may be adversely affected. in addition, our ability to record, process, and report financial information accurately, and to prepare financial statements within the time periods specified by the rules and regulations of the sec and other regulatory authorities, could be adversely affected, which may result in violations of applicable securities laws, state insurance laws and regulations, stock exchange listing requirements and the covenants under our debt agreements. we are also exposed to lawsuits and investigations, and we could be exposed to additional legal actions. in such actions, a governmental authority may interpret a law, regulation or accounting principle differently than we have, exposing us to different or additional risks. legal actions against us may result in payments including damages, fines, penalties, interest and other amounts assessed or awarded by courts or regulatory authorities under applicable escheat, tax, securities, erisa, or other laws and regulations. we could incur significant costs in connection with these actions. we have not accrued for any such liabilities. the control deficiencies resulting in the material weaknesses, in the aggregate, if not effectively remediated could also result in misstatements of accounts or disclosures related to liabilities for certain ris group annuity contracts or certain assumed variable annuity guarantees that would result in a material misstatement of the annual or interim consolidated financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. 39 table of contents we have informed the new york state department of financial services (the nydfs ) about our practices in connection with the payment of pension benefits to annuitants and related matters, and the nydfs is examining the issue. the sec staff is also investigating this matter, and several additional regulators have made inquiries into these practices, including as to related disclosures. similarly, the sec staff is investigating the matter relating to our calculation of certain reserves associated with variable annuity guarantees assumed from the former operating joint venture in japan. we have also informed other regulators of this matter. we are fully cooperating with each. it is possible that other jurisdictions may pursue similar investigations or inquiries. see controls and procedures. in addition, we cannot be certain that we will not identify additional control deficiencies or material weaknesses in the future. if we identify future control deficiencies or material weaknesses, these may lead to additional adverse effects on our business, our reputation, our results of operations, and the market price of our common stock. economic environment and capital markets-related risks difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations our business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally. stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in financial asset classes or various markets, including global capital markets, can have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and our insurance liabilities are sensitive to changing market factors. global market factors, including interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, derivative prices and availability, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and deflation and inflation, all affect our financial condition, as well as the volume, profitability and results of our business operations and our ability to receive dividends from our insurance subsidiaries and meet our obligations at metlife, inc., either directly or by virtue of their impact on the business and economic environment generally and on general levels of economic activity, employment and customer behavior specifically. disruptions in one market or asset class can also spread to other markets or asset classes. upheavals in the financial markets can also affect our financial condition (including our liquidity and capital levels) as a result of mismatched impacts on the value of our assets and our liabilities. while our diversified business mix and geographically diverse business operations partially mitigate these risks, correlation across regions, countries and global market factors may reduce the benefits of diversification. at times throughout the past several years, volatile conditions have characterized financial markets, including in recent months. significant market volatility, and government actions taken in response, may exacerbate some of the risks we face. concerns about political, security and/or economic conditions in the u.k., mexico and south korea have recently contributed to global market volatility. this market volatility has affected the performance of various asset classes at various times, and it could continue. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment. events following the u.k.'s referendum on june 23, 2016 and the uncertainties, including foreign currency exchange risks, associated with its withdrawal from the eu, have contributed to market volatility, both in the united states and beyond. such events and uncertainties could contribute to weakening gross domestic product ( gdp ) growth, primarily in the u.k. and europe. the magnitude and longevity of the potential negative economic impacts would depend on the detailed agreements reached by the u.k. and eu as a result of the exit negotiations and negotiations regarding trade and other arrangements. in addition, the impact on global capital markets, the economy and metlife of the transition occurring in the united states government and the priorities of the trump administration remains uncertain. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends financial and economic environment. any of these factors could have significant adverse effects on the economy and financial markets generally. 40 table of contents to the extent these uncertain financial market conditions persist, our revenues, reserves and net investment income, as well as the demand for certain of our products, are likely to remain under pressure. similarly, sustained periods of low interest rates and risk asset returns could reduce income from our investment portfolio, increase our liabilities for claims and future benefits, and increase the cost of risk transfer measures such as hedging, causing our profit margins to erode as a result of reduced income from our investment portfolio and increase in insurance liabilities. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends impact of a sustained low interest rate environment. also, in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur significant capital and/or operating losses due to, among other reasons, losses incurred in our general account and as a result of the impact on us of guarantees, including increases in liabilities, capital maintenance obligations and/or collateral requirements associated with our affiliated reinsurers and other similar arrangements. even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to sustained periods of low market returns, low levels of u.s. interest rates, and/or heightened market volatility, which may also increase the cost and limit the availability of the hedging instruments and other protective measures we take to mitigate such risk, or increase the cost of our insurance liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on the statutory capital and earnings of our insurance subsidiaries, as well as impair our financial strength ratings. following the separation, we continue to hold a block of variable insurance products and certain other products issued through separate accounts. the account values of these products decrease as a result of declining equity markets. lower interest rates generally increase account values in the near term, but may result in lower returns in fixed income vehicles in the future. decreases in account values reduce certain fees generated by these products, cause the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs ( dac ) to accelerate, may increase the level of insurance liabilities we must carry to support such products issued with any associated guarantees and could require us to provide additional funding to our captive reinsurers. in an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. group insurance, in particular, is affected by higher unemployment rates. in addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims, adverse utilization of benefits relative to our best estimate expectations and lapses or surrenders of policies. furthermore, our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. such adverse changes in the economy could negatively affect our earnings and capitalization and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy may continue to raise the possibility of legislative, judicial, regulatory and other governmental actions. the trump administration has released a memorandum that generally delayed all pending regulations from publication in the federal register pending their review and approval by a department or agency head appointed or designated by president trump. see business regulation u.s. regulation insurance regulation federal initiatives. in addition, the trump administration is currently renegotiating certain international trade agreements with other countries, including the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) with canada and mexico. we cannot predict with certainty what other proposals may be made or what legislation or regulations may be introduced or enacted, or what impact any such legislation or regulations may have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. see regulatory and legal risks our insurance, pensions and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth, and risks related to our business competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability below. adverse global capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, our access to capital and our cost of capital the global capital and credit markets may be subject to periods of extreme volatility. disruptions in capital markets could cause our liquidity and credit capacity to be limited. we need liquidity to pay claims and other operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock, provide our subsidiaries with cash or collateral, maintain our securities lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities. without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail our operations and limit our investments, and our business and financial results may suffer. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources. 41 table of contents in the event global capital market or other conditions have an adverse impact on our capital and liquidity, or our stress-testing indicates that such conditions could have such an impact beyond expectations and our current resources do not satisfy our needs or regulatory requirements, we may have to seek additional financing. the availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as the then current market conditions, regulatory considerations, availability of credit to us and the financial services industry generally, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and the perception of our customers and lenders regarding our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large operating or investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to a market downturn. similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient and, in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. our liquidity requirements may change if, among other things, we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral on short notice under securities lending or derivatives agreements or we are required to post collateral or make payments related to declines in market value of specified counterparty credit risk. see investments-related risks should the need arise, we may have difficulty selling certain holdings in our investment portfolio or in our securities lending program in a timely manner and realizing full value given their illiquid nature, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments securities lending an d management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital needed to operate our business, most significantly in our insurance operations. such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities, satisfy regulatory capital requirements, and access the capital necessary to grow our business. see regulatory and legal risks our insurance, pensions and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. as a result, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue different types of securities than we would have otherwise, less effectively deploy such capital, issue shorter tenor securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. we are exposed to significant global financial and capital markets risks which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and may cause our net investment income to vary from period to period we are exposed to significant global financial and capital markets risks, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, market volatility, global economic performance in general, the performance of specific obligors, including governments, included in our investment portfolio, derivatives and other factors outside our control. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends financial and economic environment and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment. interest rate risk some of our products, principally traditional life, universal life, fixed annuities and guaranteed interest contracts, as well as funding agreements and structured settlements, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our investment margin or spread, or the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts in our general account and the rate of return we earn on general account investments intended to support obligations under such contracts. our spread is a key component of our net income. in a low interest rate environment, we may be forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, which will reduce our investment margin. moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the fixed income securities and commercial, agricultural or residential mortgage loans in our investment portfolio with greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates, thereby exacerbating this risk. although lowering interest crediting rates can help offset decreases in spreads on some products, our ability to lower these rates is limited to the portion of our in-force product portfolio that has adjustable interest crediting rates, and could be limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. as a result, our spread could decrease or potentially become negative, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. see risks related to our business guarantees within certain of our products may decrease our earnings, increase the volatility of our results, result in higher risk management costs and expose us to increased counterparty risk. 42 table of contents our expectation for future spreads is an important component in the amortization of dac and value of business acquired ( voba ). significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period and potentially negatively affecting our credit instrument covenants or rating agency assessment of our financial condition. in addition, during periods of declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be relatively more attractive investments to consumers. this could result in increased premium payments on products with flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans and increased persistency, or a higher percentage of insurance policies remaining in-force from year to year, during a period when our new investments carry lower returns. a decline in market interest rates could also reduce our return on investments that do not support particular policy obligations. during periods of sustained lower interest rates, our reserves for policy liabilities may not be sufficient to meet future policy obligations and may need to be strengthened. accordingly, declining and sustained lower interest rates may materially affect our results of operations, financial position, cash flows, and ability to take dividends from operating insurance companies, as well as significantly reduce our profitability. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends impact of a sustained low interest rate environment. as a global insurance company, we are also affected by the monetary policies of the board of governors of the federal reserve system (the federal reserve board ) and of central banks around the world. actions resulting from these policies may have an impact on the pricing levels of risk-bearing investments, and may adversely impact the income we earn on our investments or the level of product sales. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment. increases in interest rates could also negatively affect our profitability. in periods of rapidly increasing interest rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, the investments in our general account with higher yielding investments needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep interest rate sensitive products competitive. we, therefore, may have to accept a lower spread and, thus, lower profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of existing contracts and related assets. in addition, policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals may tend to increase as policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns as interest rates rise. this process may result in cash outflows requiring that we sell investments at a time when the prices of those investments are adversely affected by the increase in interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses. unanticipated withdrawals, terminations and substantial policy amendments may cause us to accelerate the amortization of dac and voba, which reduces net income and potentially negatively affects our credit instrument covenants and rating agency assessment of our financial condition, and may also cause us to accelerate the amortization of negative voba, which increases net income. an increase in interest rates could also have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the estimated fair values of the fixed income securities that comprise a substantial portion of our investment portfolio. additionally, an increase in interest rates could increase our daily settlement payments on interest rate futures and cleared swaps, which may result in increased cash outflows and increase our liquidity needs. finally, an increase in interest rates could result in decreased fee income associated with a decline in the value of variable annuity account balances invested in fixed income funds. however, this increase in interest rates would typically cause any guaranteed living benefits to decline in value. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends impact of a sustained low interest rate environment. we manage interest rate risk as part of our asset and liability management strategies, which include maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration that reflects the duration of our estimated liability cash flow profile. we also use derivatives to mitigate interest rate risk. although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our fixed income investments relative to our interest rate sensitive liabilities. in addition, asymmetrical and non-economic accounting may cause material changes to our net income and stockholders' equity in any given period because our non-qualified derivatives are recorded at fair value through earnings, while the related hedged items either follow an accrual-based accounting model, such as insurance liabilities, or are recorded at fair value through other comprehensive income. see note 9 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for the primary reasons why many of the company's derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, even though they may be effective economic hedges. significant volatility in the markets could cause changes in the risks set forth above which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses, derivative losses, changes in insurance liabilities, impairments, increased valuation allowances, increases in reserves for future policyholder benefits, reduced net investment income and changes in unrealized gain or loss positions. 43 table of contents credit spreads our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price volatility and cash flow variability associated with changes in such spreads. market price volatility can make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent, as was the case, for example, during the financial crisis which commenced in 2008. in such case, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period-to-period changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition and may require additional reserves. if there is a resumption of significant volatility in the markets, it could cause changes in credit spreads and defaults and a lack of pricing transparency which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments investment risks. an increase in credit spreads relative to u.s. treasury benchmarks can also adversely affect the cost of our borrowing should we need to access credit markets. equity risk our primary exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with certain of our businesses where fee income is earned based upon the estimated fair value of the assets under management. downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a material adverse effect on the revenues and investment returns from our savings and investment products and services. the retail variable annuity business in particular is highly sensitive to equity markets, and a sustained weakness or stagnation in the equity markets could decrease revenues and earnings with respect to those products. furthermore, certain of our variable annuity products offer guaranteed benefits which increase our potential benefit exposure should equity markets decline or stagnate. we use derivatives and reinsurance to mitigate the impact of such increased potential benefit exposures. we are also exposed to interest rate and equity risk based upon the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return assumptions associated with our pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. sustained declines in long-term interest rates or equity returns likely would have a negative effect on the funded status of these plans. in addition, we invest a portion of our investments in leveraged buy-out funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds. the amount and timing of net investment income from such funds tends to be uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying investments. the timing of distributions from such funds, which depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds' schedules for making distributions and their needs for cash, can be difficult to predict. as a result, the amount of net investment income from these investments can vary substantially from period to period. significant volatility could adversely impact returns and net investment income on these alternative investment classes. in addition, the estimated fair value of such investments or other equity securities we hold may be impacted by downturns or volatility in equity markets. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. additionally, an increase in equity markets could increase settlement payments on equity futures, which may result in increased cash outflows and increase our liquidity needs. real estate risk our primary exposure to real estate risk relates to commercial, agricultural and residential real estate. our exposure to these risks stems from various factors, including the supply and demand of leasable commercial space, creditworthiness of tenants and partners, capital markets volatility, interest rate fluctuations, commodity prices and farm incomes. although we manage credit risk and market valuation risk for our commercial, agricultural and residential real estate assets through geographic, property type and product type diversification, as well as asset allocation, general economic conditions in the commercial, agricultural and residential real estate sectors will continue to influence the performance of these investments. these factors, which are beyond our control, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. obligor-related risks country specific volatility due to local economic and/or political concerns may affect the performance of certain of our investments. we have exposure to such volatility, as we maintain general account investments in such countries to support our insurance operations and related policyholder liabilities in these countries and we also have exposure through our global portfolio diversification. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends financial and economic environment and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment selected country investments. 44 table of contents our investment portfolio also contains investments in revenue bonds issued under the auspices of u.s. states and municipalities, and a limited amount of general obligation bonds of u.s. states and municipalities (collectively, state and political subdivision securities ). various u.s. states and municipalities have faced budget deficits and financial difficulties. the financial difficulties of such u.s. states and municipalities could have an adverse impact on our state and political subdivision securities and the value of our investment portfolio. fixed income securities and mortgage loans represent a significant portion of our investment portfolio. we are subject to the risk that the issuers, or guarantors, of fixed income securities and mortgage loans we own may default on principal and interest payments they owe us. we are also subject to the risk that the underlying collateral within asset-backed securities, including mortgage-backed securities, may default on principal and interest payments causing an adverse change in cash flows. the occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening mortgage or credit spreads, or other events that adversely affect the issuers, guarantors or underlying collateral of these securities and mortgage loans could cause the estimated fair value of our portfolio of fixed income securities and mortgage loans and our earnings to decline and the default rate of the fixed income securities and mortgage loans in our investment portfolio to increase. foreign currency exchange rate risks our primary foreign currency exchange rate risks are described under risks related to our business fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our profitability. changes in foreign currency exchange rates can significantly affect our net investment income in any period, and such changes can be substantial. this risk will increase if a country withdraws from the euro zone. in such case, the national currency to which such a country may revert will likely be devalued and contracts using the euro will need to be renegotiated. any such devaluation and its related consequences for our contracts and investments in any such country could be significant and materially adversely affect our operations and earnings in that country. any operations we may have in any such withdrawing country could also be materially adversely affected by legal or governmental actions related to conversion from the euro to a national currency. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. derivatives risk we use the payments we receive from counterparties pursuant to derivative instruments into which we have entered to offset future changes in the fair value of our assets and liabilities and current or future changes in cash flows. we enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including options, futures, forwards, and interest rate and credit default swaps with a number of counterparties. amounts that we expect to collect under current and future derivatives are subject to counterparty risk. our obligations under our products are not changed by our hedging activities and we are liable for our obligations even if our derivative counterparties do not pay us. such defaults could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. substantially all of our derivatives require us to pledge or receive collateral or make payments related to any decline in the net estimated fair value of such derivatives executed through a specific broker at a clearinghouse or entered into with a specific counterparty on a bilateral basis. in addition, ratings downgrades or financial difficulties of derivative counterparties may require us to utilize additional capital with respect to the impacted businesses. furthermore, the valuation of our derivatives could change based on changes to our valuation methodology or the discovery of errors. federal banking regulators have recently adopted new rules that will apply to certain qualified financial contracts, including many derivatives contracts, securities lending agreements and repurchase agreements, with certain banking institutions and certain of their affiliates. these new rules, which will be applicable beginning in 2019, will generally require the banking institutions and their applicable affiliates to include contractual provisions in their qualified financial contracts that limit or delay certain rights of their counterparties including counterparties' default rights (such as the right to terminate the contracts or foreclose on collateral) and restrictions on assignments and transfers of credit enhancements (such as guarantees) arising in connection with the banking institution or an applicable affiliate becoming subject to a bankruptcy, insolvency, resolution or similar proceeding. to the extent that any of the derivatives, securities lending agreements or repurchase agreements that we enter into are subject to these new rules, it could increase our counterparty risk or limit our recovery in the event of a default. summary significant volatility in the markets could cause changes in interest rates, declines in equity prices, and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses, derivative losses, changes in insurance liabilities, impairments, increased valuation allowances, increases in reserves for future policyholder benefits, reduced net investment income and changes in unrealized gain or loss positions. 45 table of contents regulatory and legal risks our insurance, pensions and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth our insurance operations and our pensions and brokerage businesses are subject to a wide variety of insurance and other laws and regulations. see business regulation, as supplemented by discussions of regulatory developments in our subsequently filed quarterly reports on form 10-q under the caption management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends regulatory developments. u.s. regulation insurance regulation the naic is an organization whose mission is to assist state insurance regulatory authorities in serving the public interest and achieving the insurance regulatory goals of its members, the state insurance regulatory officials. state insurance regulators may act independently or adopt regulations proposed by the naic. state insurance regulators and the naic regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, can sometimes lead to additional expense for the insurer and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in 2015, the naic commenced an initiative to study variable annuity solvency regulations, with the goal of curtailing the use of variable annuity captives. in connection with this initiative, the naic engaged a third-party consultant to conduct two quantitative impact studies over a two-year period. the naic has exposed the consultant's recommendations for comment which, if adopted, likely would apply to insurers' existing and new business and likely would materially change the sensitivity of the balance sheet (including reserve and capital requirements) to capital markets. it is not possible to predict whether the amount of reserves or capital required to support our variable annuity contracts would increase or decrease if the naic adopts any new model laws, regulations and/or other standards applicable to variable annuity business after considering such recommendations, nor is it possible to predict the extent to which any such model laws, regulations and/or other standards would affect the effectiveness and design of our risk mitigation and hedging programs. furthermore, no assurances can be given as to whether any such model laws, regulations and/or other standards will be adopted or to the timing of any such adoption. the naic is also studying rbc revisions for bonds, real estate, equity and collateral pledged to support fhlb advances, as well as longevity risk. it is premature to project the impact of any potential regulatory changes resulting from such studies. the naic is also studying rbc revisions for operational risk. the naic has modernized the calculation of life insurance reserves through the introduction of principle-based reserving, which became operative on january 1, 2017 in those states where it has been adopted, with a three-year phase-in period, at the option of insurance companies on a product-by-product basis, for new business. to date, principle-based reserving has been adopted by all of the states where our insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, except in new york where the nydfs has publicly stated its intention to implement this approach, subject to a working group of the nydfs establishing the necessary reserves safeguards and the adoption of enabling legislation by the new york legislature, which is currently pending. we cannot predict how principle-based reserving will impact the reserves or compliance costs, if any, of our insurance subsidiaries. see business regulation u.s. regulation insurance regulation naic. the naic has been considering development of the group capital calculation assessment tool, a methodology for the calculation of capital for all the entities in an insurance holding company group, including non-u.s. entities. the goal is to provide u.s. regulators with a method to aggregate the available capital and the minimum capital of each entity in a group in a way that applies to all groups regardless of their structure. the naic has stated that the calculation will be a regulatory tool and will not constitute a requirement or standard. nonetheless, any new group capital calculation methodology may incorporate existing risk-based capital concepts. it is not possible to predict what impact any such regulatory tool may have on our business. in august of 2017, the naic released a paper on macro-prudential initiatives, in which it proposed potential enhancements in supervisory practices related to liquidity, recovery and resolution, capital stress testing and counterparty exposure concentrations. we expect the naic to develop these proposals during 2018. we cannot predict the capital and reserve impacts or compliance costs, if any, that may result from the above initiatives, or what impact these initiatives will have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 46 table of contents in addition, following the reduction in the federal corporate income tax rate pursuant to u.s. tax reform, the naic may revise the methodology or factors used to calculate rbc, which is the denominator of the rbc ratio. if such potential revisions to the naic's rbc calculation would result in a reduction in the rbc ratio for one or more of our insurance subsidiaries below certain prescribed levels, we may be required to hold additional capital in such subsidiary or subsidiaries. although we do not expect that such potential revisions would impact our current dividend or capital plans, any increase in the amount of capital our insurance subsidiaries are required to hold could reduce the amount of dividends such subsidiaries are able to distribute to metlife, inc. any reduction in the rbc ratios of our insurance subsidiaries could adversely affect their financial strength ratings. for more information regarding u.s. tax reform, see u.s. tax reform could have an impact on us and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations executive summary overview u.s. tax reform. u.s. federal regulation affecting insurance currently, the business of insurance is primarily regulated at the state level. however, dodd-frank established the fio within the department of the treasury, which has the authority to participate in the negotiations of international insurance agreements with foreign regulators for the u.s., as well as to collect information about the insurance industry and recommend prudential standards. on december 12, 2013, the fio issued a report, mandated by dodd-frank, which, among other things, urged the states to modernize and promote greater uniformity in insurance regulation. the report raised the possibility of a greater role for the federal government if states do not achieve greater uniformity in their laws and regulations. we cannot predict with certainty whether any such legislation or regulatory changes will be adopted, or what impact they will have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. dodd-frank also created the fsoc, which has the authority to designate certain financial companies as non-bank sifis subject to federal reserve supervision. on january 23, 2018, the united states district court of appeals for the district of columbia dismissed the fsoc's appeal of the d.c. circuit court's march 30, 2016 decision that rescinded the fsoc's designation of metlife, inc. as a non-bank sifi. there can be no assurance that the fsoc will not seek to again designate metlife, inc. as a non-bank sifi subject to regulation that could materially and adversely affect our business and competitive position, such as rbc requirements and leverage limits, liquidity requirements, overall risk management requirements, resolution plan and credit exposure requirements, concentration limits, and other requirements. see business regulation u.s. regulation insurance regulation federal initiatives. federal legislation and administrative policies can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies, including policies regarding financial services regulation, securities regulation, derivatives regulation, pension regulation, health care regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. in addition, various forms of direct and indirect federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time, including proposals for the establishment of an optional federal charter for insurance companies. erisa and fiduciary considerations we provide products and services to certain employee benefit plans that are subject to erisa and the code. as such, our activities are subject to the restrictions imposed by erisa and the code, including the requirement under erisa that fiduciaries must perform their duties solely in the interests of erisa plan participants and beneficiaries, and those fiduciaries may not cause a covered plan to engage in certain prohibited transactions. the prohibited transaction rules of erisa and the code generally restrict the provision of investment advice to erisa plans and participants and iras if the investment recommendation results in fees paid to the individual advisor, the firm that employs the advisor or their affiliates that vary according to the investment recommendation chosen, unless an exemption or exception is available. similarly, without an exemption or exception, fiduciary advisors are prohibited from receiving compensation from third parties in connection with their advice. erisa also affects certain of our in-force insurance policies and annuity contracts, as well as insurance policies and annuity contracts we may sell in the future. 47 table of contents the dol issued new regulations, which became for the most part applicable on june 9, 2017, that substantially expanded the definition of investment advice and require that an impartial or best interests standard be met in providing such advice, thereby broadening the circumstances under which metlife or its representatives, in providing investment advice with respect to erisa plans, plan participants or iras, could be deemed a fiduciary under erisa or the code. pursuant to the final regulations, certain communications with plans, plan participants and ira holders, including the sales of products, and investment management or advisory services, could be deemed fiduciary investment advice, thus causing increased exposure to fiduciary liability if the distributor does not recommend what is in the client's best interests. while the final regulations also provide that, to a limited extent, contracts sold and advice provided prior to the applicable date do not have to be modified to comply with the new investment advice regulations, there is lack of clarity surrounding some of the conditions for qualifying for this limited exception. there can be no assurance that the dol will agree with our interpretation of the provisions of the new regulations, in which case the dol and irs could assess significant penalties against a portion of products sold prior to the applicable date. the assessment of such penalties could also trigger substantial litigation risk. any such penalties and related litigation could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. the dol also issued amendments to certain of its prohibited transaction exemptions, and issued a new exemption that applies more onerous disclosure and contract requirements to, and increases fiduciary requirements and fiduciary liability exposure in respect of, certain transactions involving erisa plans, plan participants and iras. on november 27, 2017, the changes the rule made to existing prohibited transaction exemptions and contract and disclosure requirements of the new exemption (other than the impartial interest standard) were delayed until july 1, 2019, in order to give the dol the time necessary to consider public comments made in july and september 2017, as well as a february 2017 directive from the president to analyze the rule's impact to access to retirement information and financial advice. the rule is also being challenged in the fifth circuit court of appeals (and elsewhere), where a decision is expected during the first quarter of 2018. concurrent with the rule delay, on november 24, 2017 the naic issued an exposure draft of an expanded suitability in annuity transactions model regulation, intended to result in the adoption of a best interest standard on a nationwide basis. we are working with industry trade groups to provide comments to this draft. in addition, on december 27, 2017 the nydfs proposed revisions to insurance regulation 187, which not only incorporate the best interest standard, but also would expand the scope of the regulations to include sales of life insurance policies and annuities to consumers. the nydfs proposed revisions to regulation 187 are open for public comment until february 25, 2018. these developments leave open the possibility of further modifications to the federal rule. in addition, insurance regulation 187 may result in additional requirements on insurers and agents concerning both new and in-force annuity and life insurance products. we cannot predict what other proposals may be made, what legislation or regulations may be introduced or enacted, or what impact any such legislation or regulations may have on our business, product sales, results of operations and financial condition. while we continue to analyze the impact of the final regulations on our business, we believe they could have an adverse effect in their present form on sales of annuity products to erisa qualified plans through our independent distribution partners. under the new regulations, advisors (including independent distributors) who sell fixed index-linked annuities to iras, ira rollovers or 401(k) plans are deemed to be fiduciaries and are prohibited from receiving compensation unless they comply with a prohibited transaction exemption. the exemption requires advisors to comply with impartial conduct standards and may require us to exercise additional oversight of the sales process. compliance with the prohibited transaction exemption will likely result in increased regulatory burdens on us and our independent distribution partners, changes to our compensation practices and product offerings and increased litigation risk, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. see business regulation u.s. regulation erisa and fiduciary considerations. there remains uncertainty over whether the regulations will be substantially modified or repealed. application of a portion of the rules on june 9, 2017 and an additional 18-month delay on the remaining components, in light of the overall reconsideration of the rules requested by president trump, could create confusion among our distribution partners which could negatively impact product sales. we cannot predict what other proposals may be made, what legislation may be introduced or enacted, or what impact any such legislation may have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 48 table of contents international regulation our international insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. a significant portion of our revenues is generated through operations in foreign jurisdictions, including many countries in early stages of economic and political development. our international operations may be materially adversely affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and regulators. see risks related to our business our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability. this may also impact many of our customers and independent sales intermediaries. changes in the laws and regulations that affect these customers and independent sales intermediaries or their operations also may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or distribute our products , as well as our product design . accordingly, these changes and actions may negatively affect our business in these jurisdictions. we expect the scope and extent of regulation outside of the u.s., as well as regulatory oversight, generally, to continue to increase. the authority of our international operations to conduct business is subject to licensing requirements, permits and approvals, and these authorizations are subject to modification and revocation. the regulatory environment in the countries in which we operate and changes in laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. see business regulation international regulation. solvency regimes certain of our businesses are subject to solvency ii, which became effective on january 1, 2016 in the eea and covers the capital adequacy, risk management and regulatory reporting for issuers and reinsurers, and are subject to solvency ii-like frameworks in mexico and china, with other similar solvency standards under development in other markets such as brazil and chile. see business regulation international regulation solvency regimes. as requirements are finalized by the regulators, capital requirements might be impacted in a number of jurisdictions. in addition, our legal entity structure throughout europe may impact our capital requirements, risk management infrastructure and reporting by country. other international and global regulatory initiatives in the wake of the financial crisis, national and international authorities have proposed measures intended to increase the intensity of regulation of large financial institutions, requiring greater coordination among regulators and efforts to harmonize regulatory regimes. there can be no assurance that metlife will not in the future be subject to enhanced capital standards, supervision and additional requirements, such as g-sii requirements or other group capital standards or insurer capital standards outside of the u.s. see business regulation international regulation other international and global regulatory initiatives. general from time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations or audits of metlife, inc.'s regulated subsidiaries that could, if determined adversely, have a material impact on us. in addition, the interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements. further, a particular regulator or other governmental authority may interpret a law, regulation or accounting principle differently than we have, exposing us to different or additional risks. compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including regulatory and securities filings requirements, is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business. additionally, any failure to strictly comply with regulatory or securities filing requirements, or any other legal or regulatory requirements, could harm our reputation or result in regulatory sanctions or legal claims. changes to or failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could thus have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 49 table of contents the dodd-frank provisions compelling the liquidation of certain types of financial institutions could materially and adversely affect metlife, inc., as such a financial institution and as an investor in other such financial institutions, as well as our investors under provisions of dodd-frank, if metlife, inc. or another financial institution were to become insolvent or were in danger of defaulting on its obligations and it was determined that such default would have serious effects on financial stability in the u.s., it could be compelled to undergo liquidation with the fdic as receiver. while under this new regime an insurance company would be resolved in accordance with state insurance law, if the fdic were appointed as the receiver for another type of a company (including an insurance holding company such as metlife, inc.), liquidation of that company would occur under the provisions of the new liquidation authority, and not under the bankruptcy code, which ordinarily governs liquidations. in an fdic-managed liquidation, holders of a company's debt could in certain respects be treated differently than under the bankruptcy code and similarly-situated creditors could be treated differently. in particular, unsecured creditors and shareholders are intended to bear the losses of the company being liquidated. these provisions could also apply to financial institutions whose debt securities we hold in our investment portfolio and could adversely affect our position as a creditor and the value of our holdings. legislative and regulatory activity in health care and other employee benefits could affect our profitability as a provider of life insurance, annuities, and non-medical health insurance benefit products the affordable care act has led to fundamental changes in the way that employers, including us, provide health care benefits and other forms of compensation to their employees and former employees. in addition to imposing obligations on metlife as an enterprise, the affordable care act also imposes requirements and taxes on us as a provider of non-medical health insurance benefits and as a purchaser of certain of these products. see business regulation u.s. regulation insurance regulation health care regulation for information regarding such requirements and taxes, including the effects of the health insurer fee and of assessments related to public healthcare exchanges. the affordable care act or other related regulations or regulatory actions may adversely affect our ability to continue to offer certain non-medical health and dental insurance products in the same manner as we do today and may continue to result in increased and unpredictable costs to provide certain products thereby harming our competitive position. in addition, we employ a substantial number of employees in the united states to whom we offer employment-related benefits. we also currently provide benefits to certain of our retirees. these benefits are provided under complex plans that are subject to a variety of regulatory requirements. the affordable care act or related regulations or regulatory actions could adversely affect our ability to attract, retain and motivate our associates. they could also result in increased or unpredictable costs to provide employee benefits, and could harm our competitive position if we are subject to fees, penalties, tax provisions or other limitations in the affordable care act and our competitors are not. the preservation of access to care for medicare beneficiaries and pension relief act of 2010 also includes certain provisions for defined benefit pension plan funding relief. these provisions may impact the likelihood and/or timing of corporate plan sponsors terminating their plans and/or engaging in transactions to partially or fully transfer pension obligations to an insurance company. consequently, this law could indirectly affect the mix of our business, with fewer pension risk transfers and more non-guaranteed funding products, and adversely impact our results of operations. changes in u.s. federal, state securities and state insurance laws and regulations may affect our operations and our profitability federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to insurance products that are also securities, including variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies, as well as certain fixed interest rate or index-linked contracts with features that require them to be registered as securities ( registered fixed contracts ). as a result, some of metlife, inc.'s subsidiaries and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance contracts and policies are subject to extensive regulation under these securities laws. federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily intended to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect investors in the securities markets, and to protect investment advisory or brokerage clients. these laws and regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and enforcement powers, including the power to adopt new rules impacting new and/or existing products, regulate the issuance, sales and distribution of our products and limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with the securities laws and regulations. 50 table of contents as a result of dodd-frank, there have been a number of changes proposed or adopted to the laws and regulations that govern the conduct of our variable and registered fixed insurance products business and the firms that distribute these products. the future impact of recently adopted revisions to laws and regulations, as well as revisions that are still in the proposal stage, on the way we conduct our business and the products we sell is unclear. such impact could adversely affect our operations and profitability, including increasing the regulatory and compliance burden upon us, resulting in increased costs, or limiting the type, amount or structure of compensation arrangements into which we may enter with certain of our employees, negatively impacting our ability to compete with other companies in recruiting and maintaining key personnel. see business regulation u.s. regulation erisa and fiduciary considerations and business regulation u.s. regulation securities, broker-dealer and investment adviser regulation. however, following the change of administration, we cannot predict with certainty whether any such proposals will be adopted, or what impact adopted revisions will have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see our insurance, pensions and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth for information regarding the trump administration's expressed goals to amend dodd-frank. we also may be subject to similar laws and regulations in the foreign countries in which we offer products or conduct other activities similar to those described above. see business regulation international regulation. the global financial crisis has led to significant changes in economic and financial markets that have, in turn, led to a dynamic competitive landscape for variable and registered fixed product issuers. our ability to react to rapidly changing market and economic conditions will depend on the continued efficacy of provisions we have incorporated into our product design allowing frequent and contemporaneous revisions of key pricing elements and our ability to work collaboratively with federal securities regulators. changes in regulatory approval processes, rules and other dynamics in the regulatory process could adversely impact our ability to react to such changing conditions. changes in tax laws or interpretations of such laws could reduce our earnings and materially impact our operations by increasing our corporate taxes and making some of our products less attractive to consumers changes in domestic or foreign tax laws or interpretations of such laws could increase our corporate taxes and reduce our earnings. global budget deficits make it likely that governments' need for additional offsetting revenue will result in future tax proposals that will increase our effective tax rate or have product implications. however, it remains difficult to predict the timing and effect that future tax law changes could have on our earnings both in the u.s. and in foreign jurisdictions. such changes could not only directly impact our corporate taxes but also could adversely impact our products (both life insurance and retirement plans) by making some of our products less attractive to consumers. a shift away from life insurance and annuity contracts and other tax-deferred products by our customers would reduce our income from sales of these products, as well as the asset base upon which we earn investment income and fees, thereby reducing our earnings and potentially affecting the value of our deferred tax assets. on december 22, 2017, u.s. tax reform was signed into law. see u.s. tax reform could have an impact on us and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations executive summary overview u.s. tax reform. u.s. tax reform could have an impact on us u.s. tax reform includes numerous changes in tax law, including a permanent reduction in the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, which took effect for taxable years beginning on or after january 1, 2018, and a participation exemption system which generally eliminates u.s. federal income tax on dividends received from foreign subsidiaries. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations executive summary overview u.s. tax reform. the overall effect of u.s. tax reform may be positive for metlife. however, u.s. tax reform also includes particular changes that may not be positive for metlife, including changes to the amortization periods for deferred acquisition costs, the computation of insurance tax reserves, deductibility of certain corporate expenses, two new international revenue-raising provisions, and rules relating to the dividends received deduction. in addition, u.s. tax reform contains provisions whose meaning is subject to differing interpretations, and future guidance may differ adversely from our current interpretation. 51 table of contents litigation and regulatory investigations are increasingly common in our businesses and may result in significant financial losses and/or harm to our reputation we face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. our pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings specific to us and others generally applicable to business practices in the industries in which we operate. in connection with our insurance or pension operations, plaintiffs' lawyers may bring or are bringing class actions and individual suits alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product design, disclosure, administration, investments, denial or delay of benefits and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers. plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages. due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular points in time may normally be difficult to ascertain. uncertainties can include how fact finders will evaluate documentary evidence and the credibility and effectiveness of witness testimony, and how trial and appellate courts will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal. in addition, a court or other governmental authority may interpret a law, regulation or accounting principle differently than we have, exposing us to different or additional risks. disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the relevant evidence and applicable law. material pending litigation and regulatory matters affecting us and risks to our business presented by these proceedings are discussed in note 20 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. updates are provided in the notes to our interim condensed consolidated financial statements regarding contingencies, commitments and guarantees included in our subsequently filed quarterly reports on form 10-q, as well as in part ii, item 1 ( legal proceedings ) of those quarterly reports. see also risks related to the material weaknesses we have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations and stock price. a substantial legal liability or a significant federal, state or other regulatory action against us, as well as regulatory inquiries or investigations, could harm our reputation, result in material fines or penalties, result in significant legal costs and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation, regulatory action or investigation, our ability to attract new customers, retain our current customers and recruit and retain employees could be materially and adversely impacted. regulatory inquiries and litigation may also cause volatility in the price of stocks of companies in our industry. current claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and other proceedings against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. it is also possible that related or unrelated claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and proceedings may be commenced in the future, and we could become subject to further investigations and have lawsuits filed or enforcement actions initiated against us. we currently have a market presence in numerous non-u.s. jurisdictions and may be subject to additional investigations and lawsuits in these jurisdictions. increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could result in new legal actions and precedents and industry-wide regulations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. investments-related risks should the need arise, we may have difficulty selling certain holdings in our investment portfolio or in our securities lending program in a timely manner and realizing full value given their illiquid nature there may be a limited market for certain investments we hold in our investment portfolio, making them relatively illiquid. these include privately-placed fixed maturity securities, certain derivative instruments, mortgage loans, policy loans, leveraged leases, other limited partnership interests, and real estate equity, such as real estate joint ventures and funds. in recent years, even some of our very high quality investments experienced reduced liquidity during periods of market volatility or disruption. if we were forced to sell certain of our investments during periods of market volatility or disruption, market prices may be lower than our carrying value in such investments. this could result in realized losses which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, as well as our financial ratios, which could affect compliance with our credit instruments and rating agency capital adequacy measures. 52 table of contents similarly, we loan blocks of our securities to third parties (primarily brokerage firms and commercial banks) through our securities lending program, including fixed maturity (primarily u.s. government and u.s. government-backed securities) and equity securities, short-term investments and cash equivalents. under this program, we obtain collateral, usually cash, at the inception of a loan and typically purchase securities with the cash collateral. upon the return to us of these loaned securities, we must return to the third party the cash collateral we received. if the cash collateral has been invested in securities, we need to sell the securities. however, in some cases, the maturity of those securities may exceed the term of the related securities on loan and the estimated fair value of the securities we need to sell may fall below the amount of cash received. if we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral under our securities lending program or otherwise need significant amounts of cash on short notice and we are forced to sell securities, we may have difficulty selling such collateral that is invested in securities in a timely manner, be forced to sell securities in a volatile or illiquid market for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize under normal market conditions, or both. in the event of a forced sale, accounting guidance requires the recognition of a loss for securities in an unrealized loss position and may require the impairment of other securities based on our ability to hold those securities, which would negatively impact our financial condition, as well as our financial ratios, which could affect compliance with our credit instruments and rating agency capital adequacy measures. in addition, under stressful capital market and economic conditions, liquidity broadly deteriorates, which may further restrict our ability to sell securities. furthermore, if we decrease the amount of our securities lending activities over time, the amount of net investment income generated by these activities will also likely decline. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital uses securities lending. our requirements to pledge collateral or make payments related to declines in estimated fair value of derivatives transactions or specified assets in connection with otc-cleared and otc-bilateral transactions may adversely affect our liquidity, expose us to central clearinghouse and counterparty credit risk, and increase our costs of hedging substantially all of our derivatives transactions require us to pledge collateral related to any decline in the net estimated fair value of such derivatives transactions executed through a specific broker at a clearinghouse or entered into with a specific counterparty on a bilateral basis. certain derivatives financing transactions require us to pledge collateral or make payments related to declines in the estimated fair value of the specified assets under certain circumstances to central clearinghouses or our counterparties. the amount of collateral we may be required to pledge and the payments we may be required to make under our derivatives transactions may increase under certain circumstances and will increase as a result of the requirement to pledge initial margin for otc-cleared transactions and for otc-bilateral transactions entered into after the phase-in period, which will likely be applicable to us in september 2020 as a result of the adoption by the office of the comptroller of the currency, the federal reserve board, fdic, farm credit administration and federal housing finance agency (collectively, the prudential regulators ) and the cftc of final margin requirements for non-centrally cleared derivatives. although the final rules allow us to pledge a broad range of non-cash collateral as initial and variation margin, the prudential regulators, cftc, central clearinghouses and counterparties may restrict or eliminate certain types of eligible collateral or charge us to pledge such non-cash collateral, which would increase our costs and could adversely affect the liquidity of our investments and the composition of our investment portfolio. see business regulation u.s. regulation regulation of over-the-counter derivatives, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital uses pledged collateral, and note 9 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity securities and defaults, downgrades or other events may result in future impairments to the carrying value of such securities, resulting in a reduction in our net income fixed maturity securities classified as available-for-sale ( afs ) securities are reported at their estimated fair value. unrealized gains or losses on afs securities are recognized as a component of other comprehensive income (loss) ( oci ) and are, therefore, excluded from net income. in recent periods, as a result of low interest rates, the unrealized gains on our fixed maturity securities have exceeded the unrealized losses. however, if interest rates rise, our unrealized gains would decrease and our unrealized losses would increase, perhaps substantially. the accumulated change in estimated fair value of these afs securities is recognized in net income when the gain or loss is realized upon the sale of the security or in the event that the decline in estimated fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary and an impairment charge to earnings is taken. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments fixed maturity and equity securities afs. 53 table of contents the occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening credit risk spreads, or other events that adversely affect the issuers or guarantors of securities or the underlying collateral of structured securities could cause the estimated fair value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio and corresponding earnings to decline and cause the default rate of the fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio to increase. a ratings downgrade affecting issuers or guarantors of particular securities, or similar trends that could worsen the credit quality of issuers, such as the corporate issuers of securities in our investment portfolio, could also have a similar effect. with economic uncertainty, credit quality of issuers or guarantors could be adversely affected. similarly, a ratings downgrade affecting a security we hold could indicate the credit quality of that security has deteriorated and could increase the capital we must hold to support that security to maintain our rbc levels. levels of writedowns or impairments are impacted by intent to sell, or our assessment of the likelihood that we will be required to sell, fixed maturity securities. realized losses or impairments on these securities may have a material adverse effect on our net income in a particular quarterly or annual period. our valuation of securities and investments and the determination of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on our investments are subjective and include methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations and market conditions and, if changed, could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition fixed maturity, equity, and fair value option ( fvo ) securities, as well as short-term investments that are reported at estimated fair value represent the majority of our total cash and investments. we define fair value generally as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability. considerable judgment is often required in interpreting market data to develop estimates of fair value, and the use of different assumptions or valuation methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. during periods of market disruption including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. in addition, in times of financial market disruption, certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data may become illiquid. in those cases, the valuation process includes inputs that are less observable and require more subjectivity and management judgment. valuations may result in estimated fair values which vary significantly from the amount at which the investments may ultimately be sold. further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in estimated fair value could vary significantly. decreases in the estimated fair value of securities we hold may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments and notes 1 and 10 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. the determination of the amount of allowances and impairments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. we reflect any changes in allowances and impairments in earnings as such evaluations are revised. however, historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances. in addition, any such future impairments or allowances could have a materially adverse effect on our earnings and financial position. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates investment impairments and note 8 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. defaults on our mortgage loans and volatility in performance may adversely affect our profitability our mortgage loans face default risk and are principally collateralized by commercial, agricultural and residential properties. we establish valuation allowances for estimated impairments, which are based on loan risk characteristics, historical default rates and loss severities, real estate market fundamentals and outlooks, as well as other relevant factors. in addition, substantially all of our commercial and agricultural mortgage loans held-for-investment have balloon payment maturities. an increase in the default rate of our mortgage loan investments or fluctuations in their performance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. further, any geographic or property type concentration of our mortgage loans may have adverse effects on our investment portfolio and consequently on our results of operations or financial condition. while we seek to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolio to the extent that the portfolio is concentrated. moreover, our ability to sell assets relating to such particular groups of related assets may be limited if other market participants are seeking to sell at the same time. in addition, legislative proposals that would allow or require modifications to the terms of mortgage loans could be enacted. we cannot predict whether these proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business or investments. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments mortgage loans. 54 table of contents the defaults or deteriorating credit of other financial institutions could adversely affect us we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, central clearinghouses, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge funds and investment funds and other financial institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. in addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. we also have exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments, non-redeemable and redeemable preferred securities, derivatives, joint venture, hedge fund and equity investments. further, potential action by governments and regulatory bodies in response to the financial crisis affecting the global banking system and financial markets, such as investment, nationalization, conservatorship, receivership and other intervention, whether under existing legal authority or any new authority that may be created, or lack of action by governments and central banks, as well as deterioration in the banks' credit standing, could negatively impact these instruments, securities, transactions and investments or limit our ability to trade with them. any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these investments or other changes may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 55 table of contents risks related to our business our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability our international operations face political, legal, financial, operational and other risks. these operations may be materially adversely affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and regulators, such as through nationalization or expropriation of assets; the imposition of limits on foreign ownership of local companies which may increase our dependence on joint venture counterparties and/or impact how we account for our joint venture ownership interests; changes in laws (including tax laws and regulations), their application or interpretation; political instability (including any resulting economic or trade sanctions); dividend limitations; price controls; changes in applicable currency; currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold into u.s. dollars or other currencies, as well as other adverse actions by foreign governmental authorities and regulators, such as the retroactive application of new requirements on our current and prior activities or operations, the imposition of regulations limiting our ability to distribute our products, and public or political criticism of our products, practices, and other aspects of our business and operations. such actions may negatively affect our business or reputation in these jurisdictions and could indirectly affect our business or reputation in other jurisdictions as well. some of our foreign insurance operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where these risks are heightened. for example, proposed reform of the chilean pension system, if enacted, may have a significant adverse effect on our business in chile. see business regulation international regulation. the united states, mexico, and canada are currently renegotiating nafta, which had eliminated most trade tariffs between the three countries. while our current business in mexico is not directly dependent upon any specific trade agreement provision, and is tied to the general economy and the growth of the market, if the current rules on government procurement under nafta were modified or eliminated, it could have a material adverse impact on our business in mexico, given our business model. we cannot predict with certainty what proposals may be made in connection with international trade agreements or what legislation or regulations may be introduced or enacted, or what impact any such legislation or regulations may have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. part of our international insurance operations may be subject to assessments, generally based on their proportionate share of business written in the relevant jurisdiction, for certain obligations to policyholders and claimants resulting from the insolvency of insurance companies. we cannot predict the timing and scope of any assessments that may be made in the future, which may materially affect the results of operations of our international insurance operations in particular quarterly or annual periods. see business regulation international regulation and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, as well as regulatory and legal risks our insurance, pensions and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. we have market presence in numerous jurisdictions and increased exposure to risks posed by local and regional economic conditions. concerns about the political, security and/or economic conditions in the u.k., mexico and south korea have recently contributed to global market volatility. lack of legal certainty and stability in these regions exposes our operations there to increased risk of disruption and to adverse or unpredictable actions by regulators and may make it more difficult for us to enforce our contracts, which may negatively impact our business in these regions. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends financial and economic environment. on june 23, 2016, the u.k. held a referendum regarding its membership in the eu, resulting in a vote in favor of leaving the eu. the u.k. government triggered the withdrawal process by notifying the eu on march 29, 2017 of the u.k.'s intention to withdraw from the eu. the member withdrawal provisions in the applicable eu treaty provide that the u.k. and the eu will negotiate a withdrawal agreement during a maximum two-year period (unless such period is extended by unanimous vote of the eu member states). in the meantime, the u.k. remains a member of the eu with unchanged rights to access the single eu market in goods and services. our u.k. business model utilizes certain rights to operate cross-border insurance and investment operations which may be modified or eliminated as a result of the u.k. exiting the eu. operating expenses within our businesses could increase as a result of uncertainties during the negotiation period and upon the u.k.'s withdrawal. economic slowdowns and volatility may impact markets where we have a material presence, including japan, latin america and europe. unfavorable economic conditions could adversely impact the demand for our products, negatively impact earnings, adversely affect the performance of our investments or result in impairments, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. see economic environment and capital markets-related risks difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment selected country investments. 56 table of contents furthermore, we rely on local sales forces in these jurisdictions and may encounter labor problems resulting from workers' associations and trade unions in some jurisdictions. additionally, if associates fail to adhere to local regulatory requirements or our policies and procedures, we may be subject to penalties, restrictions or other sanctions by local regulators in such jurisdictions, and we may suffer reputational harm. if our business model is not successful in a particular jurisdiction, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training the sales force in that jurisdiction. we are continuing to expand our international operations in certain markets where we operate and in selected new markets. this may require considerable management time, as well as start-up expenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. the prospects of our business also may be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to manage the growth of such international operations successfully. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in managing such future growth. further, operations in new foreign markets may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in existing markets may be affected by local political, economic and market conditions. therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not achieve expected operating margins and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our profitability we are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar resulting from our holdings of non-u.s. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries, net income from foreign operations and issuance of non-u.s. dollar denominated instruments, including guaranteed interest contracts and funding agreements. in general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the u.s. dollar will adversely affect the estimated fair value of our non-u.s. dollar denominated investments, our investments in foreign subsidiaries, and our net income from foreign operations. in addition, from time to time, various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies. our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk is exacerbated by our investments in these emerging markets. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in addition, certain of our life and annuity products are exposed to foreign exchange rate risk. payments under these contracts, depending on the circumstances, may be required to be made in different currencies and may not be the legal tender in the country whose law governs the particular product. changes in exchange rate movements and the imposition of capital controls may also directly impact the liability valuation that may not be entirely hedged. if the currency upon which expected future payments are made strengthens, the liability valuation may increase, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we match substantially all of our foreign currency denominated liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with investments denominated in their respective foreign currency, which limits the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuations on local operating results; however, fluctuations in such rates affect the translation of these results into our u.s. dollar basis consolidated financial statements. although we take certain actions to address this risk, including entering into foreign currency derivatives, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could materially adversely affect our reported results due to unhedged positions, asymmetrical and non-economic accounting resulting from derivative gains (losses) on non-qualifying hedges, or the failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. our reported results could also be adversely affected if the economy of one or more of our foreign subsidiaries is determined to be highly inflationary, generally defined by a cumulative inflation rate of approximately 100% or more over a three-year period. we face significant exposure to risks associated with fluctuations in the yen/u.s. dollar exchange rate because we have substantial operations in japan and a large portion of our premiums and investment income in japan are received in yen. most claims and expenses associated with our operations in japan are also paid in yen and we primarily purchase yen-denominated assets to support yen-denominated policy liabilities. these and other yen-denominated financial statement items are, however, translated into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. accordingly, fluctuations in the yen/u.s. dollar exchange rate can have a significant effect on our reported financial position and results of operations. our japan operation does assume some currency exposure by backing a portion of surplus and yen-denominated liabilities with u.s. dollar assets. although this represents risk to our japan operation, most of these u.s. dollar assets are hedged to yen with currency derivatives. additionally, our japan operation sells u.s. dollar and australian dollar life and annuity products to japanese customers. we may experience elevated levels of early policy terminations when the japanese yen weakens against these currencies. while the cost of early policy terminations is offset by surrender charges, foreign exchange rate fluctuations will impact both our sales volumes and the amount of business we have in-force. due to our significant international operations, during periods when any foreign currency from which we derive our revenues weakens (strengthens), translating amounts expressed in that currency into u.s. dollars causes fewer (more) u.s. dollars to be reported. any unrealized foreign currency translation adjustments ( fcta ) are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ( aoci ). the weakening of a foreign currency relative to the u.s. dollar will generally adversely affect the value of investments in u.s. dollar terms and reduce the level of reserves denominated in that currency. 57 table of contents an inability to access our credit facility could result in a reduction in our liquidity and lead to downgrades in our credit and financial strength ratings we rely on our $3.0 billion unsecured credit facility maintained by metlife, inc. and metlife funding, inc. ( metlife funding ), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of metlife, inc. (the credit facility ), as a potential source of liquidity. the availability of the credit facility could be critical to our credit and financial strength ratings and our ability to meet our obligations as they come due in a market when alternative sources of credit are tight. the credit facility contains certain administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants, including a requirement to maintain a specified minimum consolidated net worth. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital sources global funding sources credit and committed facilities and note 12 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. our right to borrow funds under the credit facility is subject to the fulfillment of certain important conditions, including our compliance with all covenants, and our ability to borrow under the credit facility is also subject to the continued willingness and ability of the lenders that are parties to the credit facility to provide funds. our failure to comply with the covenants in the credit facility or fulfill the conditions to borrowings, or the failure of lenders to fund their lending commitments (whether due to insolvency, illiquidity or other reasons) in the amounts provided for under the terms of the credit facility, would restrict our ability to access the credit facility when needed and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may need to fund deficiencies in our closed block; assets allocated to the closed block benefit only the holders of closed block policies mlic's plan of reorganization, as amended, established in connection with its demutualization, required that we establish and operate an accounting mechanism, known as a closed block, to ensure that the reasonable dividend expectations of policyholders who own individual participating whole life insurance policies of mlic in force at the time of the demutualization are met. we allocated assets to the closed block in an amount that will produce cash flows which, together with anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block, are reasonably expected to be sufficient to support obligations and liabilities relating to these policies, including, but not limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain expenses and tax, and to provide for the continuation of the policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999, if the experience underlying such scales continues, and for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience changes. the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block may not be sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies. if they are not, we must fund the shortfall. even if they are sufficient, we may choose, for competitive reasons, to support policyholder dividend payments with our general account funds. the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenues from the policies in the closed block will benefit only the holders of the policies in the closed block. in addition, to the extent that these amounts are greater than the amounts estimated at the time the closed block was funded, dividends payable in respect of the policies included in the closed block may be greater than they would be in the absence of a closed block. any excess earnings will be available for distribution over time only to closed block policyholders. see note 7 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. a downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could result in a loss of business and materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations financial strength ratings are published by various nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ( nrsros ) and similar entities not formally recognized as nrsros. they indicate the nrsros' opinion regarding an insurance company's ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations, and are important to maintaining public confidence in our products and our competitive position. see business company ratings for additional information regarding our financial strength ratings. 58 table of contents downgrades in our financial strength or credit ratings or changes to our ratings outlooks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including: reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other investment products; impacting the cost and availability of financing for metlife, inc. and its subsidiaries; adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and independent sales intermediaries; materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders; requiring us to post additional collateral under certain of our financing and derivative transactions; requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and services to remain competitive; providing termination rights for the benefit of our derivative instrument counterparties; adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices or at all; limiting our access to the capital markets; increasing the cost of debt; requiring us to post collateral; and subjecting us to increased regulatory scrutiny. in addition to the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries, various nrsros also publish credit ratings for metlife, inc. and several of its subsidiaries. credit ratings indicate the nrsros' opinion regarding a debt issuer's ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner and are important factors in our overall funding profile and ability to access certain types of liquidity. see note 9 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding the impact of a one-notch downgrade with respect to derivative transactions with financial strength or credit rating downgrade triggers and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital uses pledged collateral for further information on the impact of a one-notch downgrade. see also management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company capital rating agencies. in view of the difficulties experienced by many financial institutions as a result of the financial crisis and ensuing global recession, including our competitors in the insurance industry, we believe it is possible that the nrsros will continue to heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to insurance companies, will continue to increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, will continue to request additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. in addition, the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could result in downgrades in our financial strength or credit ratings. see controls and procedures and risks related to the material weaknesses we have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations and stock price. our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without notice by any nrsro. reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses as part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various business segments. while reinsurance agreements generally bind the reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured at generally fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new business. in certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for business already reinsured may also increase. for example, for some of our group businesses under which the policies and related reinsurance are subject to periodic (typically annual) renewal, prices may increase at any renewal. also, for most of our traditional life reinsurance agreements, it is common for the reinsurer to have a right to increase reinsurance rates on in-force business if there is a systematic deterioration of mortality in the market as a whole. any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to those policies we issue. see business reinsurance activity and if the counterparties to our reinsurance or indemnification arrangements or to the derivatives we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 59 table of contents if the counterparties to our reinsurance or indemnification arrangements or to the derivatives we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations we use reinsurance, indemnification and derivatives to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. in general, reinsurance, indemnification and derivatives do not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers, indemnitors, counterparties and central clearinghouses. a reinsurer's, indemnitor's, counterparty's or central clearinghouse's insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of reinsurance agreements, indemnity agreements or derivatives agreements with us or inability or unwillingness to return collateral could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, including our liquidity. see business reinsurance activity. in addition, we use derivatives to hedge various business risks. we enter into a variety of derivatives, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit default and currency swaps with a number of counterparties on a bilateral basis for uncleared otc derivatives and with clearing brokers and central clearinghouses for otc-cleared derivatives. we also enter into futures and exchange-traded options with clearing brokers and central clearinghouses. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations derivatives. if our counterparties, clearing brokers or central clearinghouses fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivatives, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. this risk is more pronounced in light of the stresses suffered by financial institutions over the past few years. such failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. differences between actual claims experience and underwriting and reserving assumptions may adversely affect our financial results our earnings significantly depend upon the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in setting prices for our products and establishing liabilities for future policy benefits and claims. such amounts are established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims. to the extent that actual claims experience is less favorable than the underlying assumptions we used in establishing such liabilities, we could be required to reduce dac and/or voba, increase our liabilities and/or incur higher costs. due to the nature of the underlying risks and the uncertainty associated with the determination of liabilities for future policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely the amounts which we will ultimately pay to settle our liabilities. such amounts may vary from the estimated amounts, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future. we evaluate our liabilities periodically based on accounting requirements, which change from time to time, the assumptions used to establish the liabilities, as well as our actual experience. reserve estimates in some instances are affected by our operating practices and procedures that are used, among other things, to support our assumptions with respect to the company's obligations to its policyholders and contractholders. these practices and procedures include our use of technology, such as database analysis and electronic communications. to the extent that these practices and procedures do not accurately produce the data to support our assumptions or cause us to change our assumptions, or to the extent that enhanced technological tools become available to us, such assumptions and procedures, as well as our reserves, may require adjustment. furthermore, to the extent that any of our operating practices and procedures do not accurately produce, or reproduce, data that we use to conduct any or all aspects of our business, such errors may negatively impact our business, reputation, results of operations, and financial condition. if the liabilities originally established for future benefit payments prove inadequate, we must increase them and/or reduce associated dac and/or voba. such adjustments could affect earnings negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. see business policyholder liabilities and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations policyholder liabilities. see also management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates deferred policy acquisition costs and value of business acquired, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates derivatives, and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations consolidated results year ended december 31, 2017 compared with the year ended december 31, 2016 actuarial assumption review for further information regarding the manner in which policyholder behavior and other events may differ from our assumptions and, thereby affect our financial results. 60 table of contents catastrophes may adversely impact liabilities for policyholder claims and reinsurance availability our insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic events. the extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however, hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis and man-made catastrophes may produce significant damage or loss of life or property damage in larger areas, especially those that are heavily populated. claims resulting from catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition. in addition, catastrophic events could harm the financial condition of issuers of obligations we hold in our investment portfolio, resulting in impairments to these obligations, and could also harm the financial condition of our reinsurers, thereby increasing the probability of default on reinsurance recoveries. large-scale catastrophes may also reduce the overall level of economic activity in affected countries, which could hurt our business and the value of our investments or our ability to write new business. it is possible that increases in the value of property, caused by inflation or other factors, and geographic concentration of insured lives or property, could increase the severity of claims we receive from future catastrophic events. our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that causes a large number of deaths. significant influenza pandemics have occurred three times in the last century; however, the likelihood, timing, and severity of a future pandemic cannot be predicted. a significant pandemic could have a major impact on the global economy or the economies of particular countries or regions, including travel, trade, tourism, the health system, food supply, consumption, overall economic output, as well as on the financial markets. in addition, a pandemic that affected our employees or the employees of our distributors or of other companies with which we do business could disrupt our business operations. the effectiveness of external parties, including governmental and non-governmental organizations, in combating the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have a material impact on the losses we experience. in our group insurance operations, a localized event that affects the workplace of one or more of our group insurance customers could cause a significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims. these events could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any period and, depending on their severity, could also materially and adversely affect our financial condition. our property &amp; casualty businesses have experienced, and will likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses that may have a material adverse impact on their business, results of operations and financial condition. although we make every effort to limit our exposure to catastrophic risks through volatility management and reinsurance programs, these efforts do not eliminate all risk. catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards), fires and man-made events such as terrorist attacks. historically, most of our property &amp; casualty catastrophe-related claims have related to homeowners coverages. however, catastrophes may also affect other property &amp; casualty coverages. due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence, timing and severity of catastrophes. in addition, changing climate conditions, primarily rising global temperatures, may increase the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes such as hurricanes, tornadoes and floods. we have hurricane exposure in coastal sections of the northeastern u.s. (including lower new york, new jersey, connecticut, rhode island and massachusetts), the south atlantic states (including virginia, north carolina, south carolina, georgia and florida) and the gulf coast (including alabama, mississippi, louisiana and texas). we also have some earthquake exposure, primarily along the new madrid fault line in the central u.s. and in the pacific northwest. consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we establish liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. we cannot be certain that the liabilities we have established will be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities. from time to time, states have passed legislation that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage risk, such as legislation restricting an insurer's ability to withdraw from catastrophe-prone areas. while we attempt to limit our exposure to acceptable levels, subject to restrictions imposed by insurance regulatory authorities, a catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 61 table of contents most of the jurisdictions in which our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business require life, health, and property &amp; casualty insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations. these associations are organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. among other reasons, these insurers may become impaired, insolvent or fail following the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events. these associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is engaged. in addition, certain states have government owned or controlled organizations providing life, health, and property &amp; casualty insurance to their citizens. the activities of such organizations could also place additional stress on the adequacy of guaranty fund assessments. many of these organizations also have the power to levy assessments similar to those of the guaranty associations described above. some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. see business regulation u.s. regulation insurance regulation guaranty associations and similar arrangements and business regulation international regulation. while in the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied against metlife have not been material, it is possible that a large catastrophic event could render such guaranty funds inadequate and we may be called upon to contribute additional amounts, which may have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations in a particular period. we have established liabilities for guaranty fund assessments that we consider adequate, but additional liabilities may be necessary. see note 20 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. our ability to manage this risk and the profitability of our property &amp; casualty, health and life insurance businesses depends in part on our ability to obtain catastrophe reinsurance, which may not be available at commercially acceptable rates in the future. see reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses. our statutory life insurance reserve financings may be subject to cost increases and new financings may be subject to limited market capacity we currently utilize capital markets solutions to finance a portion of our statutory reserve requirements for several products, including, but not limited to, our level premium term life subject to the naic model regulation valuation of life insurance policies (commonly referred to as xxx), and ulsg subject to naic actuarial guideline 38 (commonly referred to as axxx), as well as mlic's closed block. while we have financing facilities in place for certain previously written business, certain of these facilities are subject to cost increases upon the occurrence of specified ratings downgrades of metlife or are subject to periodic re-pricing. any resulting cost increases could negatively impact our financial results. future capacity for these statutory reserve funding structures in the marketplace is not guaranteed. in 2014, the naic approved a new regulatory framework applicable to the use of captive insurers in connection with regulation xxx and guideline axxx transactions. among other things, the framework called for more disclosure of an insurer's use of captives in its statutory financial statements, and narrows the types of assets permitted to back statutory reserves that are required to support the insurer's future obligations. in 2014, the naic implemented the framework through ag 48, which requires the actuary of the ceding insurer that opines on the insurer's reserves to issue a qualified opinion if the framework is not followed. the requirements of ag 48 became effective as of january 1, 2015 in all states without any further action necessary by state legislatures or insurance regulators to implement them, and apply prospectively to new policies issued and new reinsurance transactions entered into on or after january 1, 2015. the naic has adopted an update to ag 48 and a model regulation that contains the same substantive requirements as the updated ag 48. the states have started to adopt the model regulation. to the extent the types of assets permitted under ag 48 and the recent updates are not available in the future to back statutory reserves, we would not be able to take some or all statutory reserve credit for such transactions and this could materially affect the statutory capitalization of certain of our insurance subsidiaries. 62 table of contents competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability we believe competition amongst insurance companies is based on a number of factors, including service, product features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, e-business capabilities and name recognition. we compete globally with a large number of other insurance companies, as well as non-insurance financial services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset managers, for individual consumers, employers and other group customers and agents and other distributors of insurance and investment products. some of these companies offer a broader array of products, have more competitive pricing or, with respect to other insurance companies, have higher claims paying ability ratings. some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete. in some circumstances, national banks that sell annuity products of life insurers may also have pre-existing customer bases for financial services products. additionally, many of our group insurance products are underwritten annually. there is a risk that group purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors than they could by renewing coverage with us. these competitive pressures may adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell our products in the future. furthermore, the investment management and securities brokerage businesses have relatively low barriers to entry and continually attract new entrants. in addition, the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could harm our reputation or financial condition, which in turn could negatively affect our competitive position. see business competition, controls and procedures and risks related to the material weaknesses we have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations and stock price. the insurance industry distributes many of its individual products through other financial institutions such as banks and broker-dealers. an increase in bank and broker-dealer consolidation activity may negatively impact the industry's sales, and such consolidation could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market insurance products to our current customer base or to expand our customer base. consolidation of distributors and/or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us. in addition, since numerous aspects of our business are subject to regulation, legislative and other changes affecting the regulatory environment for our business may have, over time, the effect of supporting or burdening some aspects of or actors in the financial services industry more than others. this can adversely affect our competitive position within the life insurance industry and within the broader financial services industry. see business regulation, regulatory and legal risks our insurance, pensions and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth, and regulatory and legal risks changes in u.s. federal, state securities and state insurance laws and regulations may affect our operations and our profitability. if our business does not perform well, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our goodwill or other long-lived assets or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition we perform our goodwill impairment testing using the fair value approach, which requires the use of estimates and judgment, at the reporting unit level. a reporting unit is the operating segment or a business one level below the operating segment under certain circumstances. the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the business, which may be adversely impacted by prolonged market declines. if it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, we must write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. such writedowns could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates goodwill and notes 1 and 11 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. long-lived assets, including but not limited to assets such as real estate, also require impairment testing. this testing is done to determine whether changes in circumstances indicate that we will be unable to recover the carrying amount of the asset group. such writedowns could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. 63 table of contents deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities. deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. factors in management's determination include the performance of the business including the ability to generate future taxable income. if, based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. in addition, changes in the corporate tax rates could affect the value of our deferred tax assets and may require a write-off of some of those assets. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates income taxes. see also management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations executive summary overview u.s. tax reform. if our business does not perform well or if actual experience versus estimates used in valuing and amortizing dac, deferred sales inducements ( dsi ) and voba vary significantly, we may be required to accelerate the amortization and/or impair the dac, dsi and voba which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition we incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal insurance business. costs that are related directly to the successful acquisition of new and renewal insurance business are deferred and referred to as dac. bonus amounts credited to certain policyholders, either immediately upon receiving a deposit or as excess interest credits for a period of time, are deferred and referred to as dsi. voba represents the excess of book value over the estimated fair value of acquired insurance, annuity, and investment-type contracts in-force at the acquisition date. the estimated fair value of the acquired liabilities is based on actuarially determined projections, by each block of business, of future policy and contract charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account performance, surrenders, operating expenses, investment returns, nonperformance risk adjustment and other factors. dac, dsi and voba related to fixed and variable universal life and deferred annuity contracts are amortized in proportion to actual and expected future gross profits and for most participating contracts in proportion to actual and expected future gross margins. the amount of future gross profit or margin is dependent principally on investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest crediting rates, dividends paid to policyholders, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties and certain economic variables, such as inflation. of these factors, we anticipate that investment returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of dac for the aforementioned contracts. if actual gross profits or margins are less than originally expected, then the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to net income. significant or sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of dac, dsi and voba related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to net income. such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends impact of a sustained low interest rate environment for a discussion of how significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates deferred policy acquisition costs and value of business acquired and note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further consideration of dac and voba. guarantees within certain of our products may decrease our earnings, increase the volatility of our results, result in higher risk management costs and expose us to increased counterparty risk certain of our variable annuity products, variable universal life products, assumed reinsurance contracts and other products contain guaranteed benefits, including guaranteed minimum death benefits ( gmdbs ) (including but not limited to no-lapse guarantee benefits), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits ( gmwbs ), guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits ( gmabs ) and guaranteed minimum income benefits ( gmibs ). certain of our interest rate sensitive products include a minimum crediting rate feature which could be guaranteed for a period of time or life time of the policies. these guarantees are designed to protect policyholders against significant downturns in equity markets and interest rates. any such periods of significant and sustained downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, or reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of our liabilities associated with those products. an increase in these liabilities would result in a decrease in our net income. we use derivatives and other risk management strategies to hedge the economic exposure inherent in these liabilities. these economically effective hedges do not generally qualify for hedge accounting treatment, and, as result, such non-qualifying derivatives may introduce volatility in the results of our operations, including net income, to the extent the financial measurement of the hedged liability does not fully reflect the sensitivity to the underlying economic exposure. 64 table of contents we also use derivatives and other risk management strategies to directly mitigate the volatility in net income associated with certain of these liabilities that are measured at fair value. these strategies involve the use of reinsurance and derivatives, which may not be completely effective. for example, in the event that reinsurers, derivative counterparties or central clearinghouses are unable or unwilling to pay, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefits. see if the counterparties to our reinsurance or indemnification arrangements or to the derivatives we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, hedging instruments may not effectively offset the costs of guarantees or may otherwise be insufficient in relation to our obligations. furthermore, we are subject to the risk that changes in policyholder behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events, produce economic losses not addressed by the risk management techniques employed. these, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including net income, capitalization, financial condition or liquidity, including our ability to receive dividends from our operating insurance companies. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations policyholder liabilities variable annuity guarantees and note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further consideration of the risks associated with guaranteed benefits. risks related to acquisitions, dispositions or other structural changes we could face difficulties, unforeseen liabilities, asset impairments or rating actions arising from business acquisitions or integrating and managing growth of such businesses, dispositions of businesses, or legal entity reorganizations we have engaged in dispositions and acquisitions of businesses in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future. see note 3 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding the separation and the u.s. retail advisor force divestiture. such activity exposes us to a number of risks arising from (i) potential difficulties achieving projected financial results, including the costs and benefits of integration or deconsolidation; (ii) unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments; (iii) the scope and duration of rights to indemnification for losses; (iv) the use of capital which could be used for other purposes; (v) rating agency reactions; (vi) regulatory requirements that could impact our operations or capital requirements; (vii) changes in statutory or u.s. gaap accounting principles, practices or policies; and (viii) certain other risks specifically arising from activities relating to an initial public offering, spin-off, joint venture or legal entity reorganization, including in connection with the separation. the valuation and structure for any transaction reflect our financial projections and other qualitative and quantitative factors. every transaction exposes us to the risk that actual results may materially differ from what we have projected. factors that can cause our ultimate experience to vary materially from financial projections made at the time we enter into a transaction include, but are not limited to, macroeconomic, business growth, demographic, policyholder behavior and other actuarial assumptions, regulatory and political conditions. risks relating to acquisition our ability to achieve certain financial benefits we anticipate from any acquisitions of businesses will depend in part upon our ability to successfully integrate such businesses in an efficient and effective manner. we may not be able to integrate such businesses smoothly or successfully, and the process may take longer than expected. the integration of operations and differences in organizational culture may require the dedication of significant management resources, which may distract management's attention from day-to-day business. if we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of such acquired businesses, we may be unable to realize the benefits we expect to achieve as a result of such acquisitions and our business and results of operations may be less than expected. 65 table of contents the success with which we are able to integrate acquired operations will depend on our ability to manage a variety of issues, including the following: loss of key personnel or higher than expected employee attrition rates could adversely affect the performance of the acquired business and our ability to integrate it successfully. customers of the acquired business may reduce, delay or defer decisions concerning their use of its products and services as a result of the acquisition or uncertainty related to the consummation of the acquisition, including, for example, potential unfamiliarity with the metlife brand in regions where we did not have a market presence prior to the acquisition. if the acquired business relies upon independent distributors to distribute its products, these distributors may not continue to generate the same volume of business for us after the acquisition. independent distributors may reexamine the scope of their relationship with the acquired business or us as a result of the acquisition and decide to curtail or eliminate distribution of our products. if the acquired business relies on continued distribution access with another party, we are also exposed to the risk of loss of exclusivity or change in access due to regulatory changes. integrating acquired operations with our existing operations may require us to coordinate geographically separated organizations, address possible differences in corporate culture and management philosophies, merge financial processes and risk and compliance procedures, combine separate information technology platforms and integrate operations that were previously closely tied to the former parent of the acquired business or other service providers. in cases where we or an acquired business operates in certain markets through joint ventures, the acquisition may affect the continued success and prospects of the joint venture. we may incur significant costs in connection with any acquisition and the related integration. the costs and liabilities actually incurred in connection with an acquisition and subsequent integration process may exceed those anticipated. there could also be unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments, including goodwill impairments, which arise in connection with the businesses that we may sell or the businesses that we may acquire in the future. in addition, there may be liabilities or asset impairments that we fail, or are unable, to discover in the course of performing acquisition-related due diligence investigations. furthermore, even for obligations and liabilities that we do discover during the due diligence process, neither the valuation adjustment nor the contractual protections we negotiate may be sufficient to fully protect us from losses. although we generally have rights to indemnification for certain losses, our rights may be limited by survival periods for bringing claims and limitations on the nature and amount of losses we may recover, and we cannot be certain that indemnification will be, among other things, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any loss we may suffer. the use of our own funds as consideration in any acquisition would consume capital resources, which could affect our capital plan and render those funds unavailable for other corporate purposes. we also may not be able to raise sufficient funds to consummate an acquisition if, for example, we are unable to sell our securities or close related bridge credit facilities. 66 table of contents risks relating to dispositions we may from time to time dispose of business or blocks of in-force business through an outright sale, reinsurance transaction or by alternate means such as a public offering of shares in a publicly traded company or a spin-off, which would also result in a separate, publicly traded company. see note 3 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information on the separation and the u.s. retail advisor force divestiture. when we dispose of subsidiaries or operations, we may remain liable to the acquirer or to third parties for certain losses or costs arising from the divested business or on other bases. we may also not realize the anticipated profit on a disposition or incur a loss on the disposition. in anticipation of any disposition, we may need to restructure our operations, which could disrupt such operations and affect our ability to recruit key personnel needed to operate and grow such business pending the completion of such transaction. in addition, the actions of key employees of the business to be divested could adversely affect the success of such disposition as they may be more focused on obtaining employment, or the terms of their employment, than on maximizing the value of the business to be divested. furthermore, transitional services or tax arrangements related to any such separation, including the separation, could further disrupt our operations and may impose restrictions, liabilities, losses or indemnification obligations on us. depending on its particulars, a separation could increase our exposure to certain risks, such as by decreasing the diversification of our sources of revenue or by changing the percentage of our revenue being derived from non-u.s. sources. see risks related to our business our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability. any such separation could also affect the dividends available to be paid to metlife, inc. by the subsidiaries that are part of such separation. furthermore, we may be unable to timely dissolve all contractual relationships with the divested business in the course of the proposed transaction, which may materially adversely affect our ability to realize value from the disposition. such restructuring could also adversely affect our internal controls and procedures and impair our relationships with key customers, distributors and suppliers. an interruption or significant change in certain key relationships could materially affect our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. after any such disposition, shares of our common stock will represent an investment in a company different in size and characteristics from the present. these changes may cause some existing shareholders to sell their shares of our common stock, which could, if excessive, cause the market price of our common stock to decrease. risks relating to joint ventures we participate in joint ventures, which may also include exclusive or semi-exclusive distribution relationships, in several countries, including china and india. we may enter into joint ventures with other companies or government sponsored enterprises in various other international markets, including joint ventures where we may have a lesser degree of control over the business operations, which may expose us to additional operational, financial, legal or compliance risks. we may be dependent on a joint venture counterparty for capital, product distribution, local market knowledge, or other resources. limits on our ownership levels under local laws or regulations may increase our dependence on joint venture counterparties and subsequent changes to such laws or regulations may impact how we account for our joint venture ownership interests or manage the joint venture. regulations regarding the level of foreign ownership or operations of such entities or limitation on distribution exclusivity may affect the value of a joint venture. see risks related to our business our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability. a joint venture may require an investment of considerable management, financial and operational resources to establish sufficient infrastructure such as underwriting, actuarial, risk management, compliance or other processes. if we are unable to effectively cooperate with joint venture counterparties, or any joint venture counterparty fails to meet its obligations under the joint venture arrangement, encounters financial difficulty, or elects to alter, modify or terminate the relationship, we may be unable to exercise management control or influence over these joint venture operations and our ability to achieve our objectives and our results of operations may be negatively impacted thereby impairing our investment. additionally, any event having a negative financial, operational or reputational impact on any of our joint venture counterparties may also negatively affect our results of operations in the joint venture investment. 67 table of contents risks relating to legal entity reorganizations in addition, we may reorganize or consolidate the legal entities through which we conduct business. the implementation of legal entity reorganizations is a complex undertaking and involves a number of risks similar to those outlined above that are present in the case of an acquisition, including additional costs and expenses, information technology-related delays and problems, loss of key personnel and distraction of management. for example, over the past several years, we have pursued three significant reorganizations. in 2015 and 2016, we substantially completed a reorganization of many of our foreign entities under a single holding company, in 2017, we effected the separation, and in 2018, we announced plans to merge our subsidiary general american life insurance company with and into another subsidiary, metropolitan tower life insurance company. many aspects of these types of transactions are subject to regulatory approvals from a number of different jurisdictions. we may not obtain needed regulatory approvals in the timeframe anticipated or at all, which could reduce or prevent us from realizing the anticipated benefits of these transactions. these transactions or the related regulatory approvals may entail modifications of certain aspects of our operations, the composition of certain of our investment portfolios, and/or the cost of our derivatives hedging activities, which could result in additional costs or reduce net investment income. these transactions are often effected to achieve certain operational, capital or tax benefits and to the extent not realized could affect the ongoing value and financial results of such entities. any of these risks, if realized, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. we may not achieve expected benefits of the separation and will have equity market exposure to brighthouse we believe that the separation allows us and brighthouse to pursue distinct strategies appropriate to our respective markets. however, there can be no assurance that we will realize any or all of the expected strategic, financial, operational or other benefits of the separation. a failure to realize expected benefits of the separation could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. additionally, we continue to have a significant equity ownership position in brighthouse, and changes in the market price of brighthouse common stock may have a material impact on us. we may be subject to claims by plaintiffs in the event that brighthouse is not successful as a standalone entity we cannot guarantee that brighthouse will be successful as a standalone entity. in the event that brighthouse is not successful, it is possible that plaintiffs could assert a variety of claims against us. depending on their nature and number, such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we could be exposed to claims from brighthouse or third parties under our agreements with brighthouse or otherwise we have entered into agreements with brighthouse and its subsidiaries, including among others a master separation agreement, registration rights agreement, transition services agreement, investment management agreements, investment finance services agreements, tax receivables agreement, tax separation agreement and intellectual property license agreement. our agreements with brighthouse or its subsidiaries may not reflect terms that would have resulted from negotiations between unaffiliated parties and, in certain instances, may relate to the continuation of certain business arrangements among us and brighthouse in existence prior to the separation. such agreements include, among other things, the parties' respective indemnification rights and obligations with respect to certain losses relating to specified liabilities as well as certain losses relating to specified information included in certain securities filings, the allocations of assets and liabilities, payment obligations and other obligations between us and brighthouse. there can be no assurance that any remedies available under these arrangements will be sufficient to compensate us in the event of a dispute or non-performance. in addition, there can be no assurance that the attention we must pay, and resources we must devote, to our obligations under one or more of these agreements, or the results of any failure to perform those obligations, or successful claim by brighthouse that we have failed to perform those obligations or have an indemnification obligation under these agreements, will not have a material impact on our own business performance, results of operations or financial condition. under the master separation agreement, brighthouse has agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities. however, in certain instances, the indemnity from brighthouse may be insufficient to fully protect us from such liabilities, and third parties may also seek to hold us responsible for liabilities not intended to be covered by the indemnity from brighthouse. additionally, under the tax separation agreement, brighthouse could be required, under certain circumstances, to indemnify us against certain tax-related liabilities to the extent those liabilities result from an action or breach of the tax separation agreement by brighthouse. brighthouse may be unable to satisfy or have an adverse interpretation of or object to its indemnification obligations to us under one or more of these agreements and the underlying liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 68 table of contents the transition services agreement provides for the performance of certain services by each of metlife and brighthouse, or their respective subsidiaries, for the benefit of the other. the investment management agreements and investment finance services agreements provide for the performance by us of certain services for brighthouse. further, under the tax receivables agreement, brighthouse is expected to pay us certain tax benefits it realizes as a result of certain transactions involved in the separation. we will rely on brighthouse to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these and all other agreements entered into in connection with the separation. if brighthouse fails to satisfy such obligations it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. if the spin-off distribution were to fail to qualify for non-recognition treatment for u.s. federal income tax purposes, then we and our shareholders could be subject to significant tax liabilities prior to the spin-off distribution, we received a private letter ruling from the irs regarding certain significant issues under the code, as well as an opinion from tax counsel that the distribution qualified for non-recognition of gain or loss to us and our shareholders pursuant to sections 355 and 361 of the code, except to the extent of cash received in lieu of fractional shares, each subject to the accuracy of and compliance with certain representations, assumptions and covenants therein. notwithstanding the receipt of the private letter ruling and the tax opinion, the irs could determine that the distribution should be treated as a taxable transaction, for example, if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions or covenants on which the private letter ruling is based are untrue or have been violated. similarly, the irs could determine that our disposal of (and metlife, inc. shareholders' receipt of) brighthouse common stock in the potential exchange offer should be treated as a taxable transaction to both metlife, inc. and the exchanging shareholders. furthermore, as part of the irs's policy, the irs did not determine whether the distribution or potential exchange offer satisfies certain conditions that are necessary to qualify for non-recognition treatment. rather, the private letter ruling is based on representations by us and brighthouse that these conditions have been satisfied. the tax opinion addressed the satisfaction of these conditions. if we do not divest our retained brighthouse common stock in a timely manner, through an exchange offer for metlife, inc. common stock or otherwise, the ultimate disposition of these shares would likely be a taxable transaction for metlife, inc. the tax opinion is not binding on the irs or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the irs or a court will not take a contrary position. in addition, the tax counsel relied on certain representations and covenants delivered by us and brighthouse. if the irs ultimately determines that the distribution is taxable, the distribution could be treated as a taxable dividend or capital gain to metlife shareholders who received shares of brighthouse stock in the distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and such shareholders could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. in addition, if the irs ultimately determines that the distribution is taxable, we and brighthouse could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities, and either we or brighthouse could have an indemnification obligation to the other, depending on the circumstances. similarly, a potential exchange offer could be treated as a taxable transaction for both us and the exchanging shareholders. we have agreed to certain restrictions to preserve the non-recognition tax treatment of the transactions, which may reduce our strategic and operating flexibility even if the spin-off distribution otherwise qualifies for non-recognition of gain or loss under section 355 of the code, it may be taxable to us, but not our shareholders, under section 355(e) of the code if 50% or more (by vote or value) of our common stock or brighthouse's common stock is acquired as part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the distribution. for this purpose, any acquisitions of our or brighthouse' common stock within two years before or after the distribution are presumed to be part of such a plan, although we or brighthouse may be able to rebut that presumption based on either applicable facts and circumstances or a safe harbor described in the tax regulations. therefore, under the tax separation agreement with brighthouse, we are restricted from certain activities and have indemnity obligations which may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business, and might discourage or delay a strategic transaction that our shareholders may consider favorable. any payments required under these indemnity obligations could be significant and could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 69 table of contents capital-related risks legal and regulatory restrictions and uncertainty and restrictions under the terms of certain of our securities may prevent us from repurchasing our stock and paying dividends at the level we wish the declaration and payment of dividends is subject to the discretion of our board of directors, and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements, future prospects, regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by metlife, inc.'s insurance subsidiaries and other factors deemed relevant by the board. there is no requirement or assurance that we will declare and pay any dividends. see regulatory and legal risks our insurance, pensions and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. in addition, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and repurchase our common stock is subject to restrictions under the terms of our preferred stock, junior subordinated debentures and trust securities. these instruments have so called dividend stopper provisions for situations where we may be experiencing financial stress. junior subordinated debentures include metlife's fixed-to-floating exchangeable surplus trust securities, which are exchangeable for junior subordinated debentures, and which contain terms with the same substantive effects for these purposes as do the terms of metlife, inc.'s junior subordinated debentures. in addition, our ability to pay dividends on our preferred stock and interest on our junior subordinated debentures is also restricted by the terms of those securities. we may also be restricted from time to time in our ability to repurchase shares or to enter into share repurchase programs under rule 10b5-1 of the exchange act. that rule requires, among other things, that we establish any share repurchase program in good faith at a time when we are not aware of any material non-public information in order for us to have an affirmative defense against accusations of insider trading. therefore, we may be unable to repurchase shares or to enter into share repurchase programs during various periods of time, including periods of significant corporate reorganization such as a spin-off or a sale of a substantial portion of the company. regulatory restrictions metlife, inc. may not be able to pay dividends if it does not receive sufficient funds from its operating subsidiaries, which are themselves subject to separate regulatory restrictions on their ability to pay dividends. see as a holding company, metlife, inc. depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends, a major component of holding company free cash flow. see also regulatory and legal risks our insurance, pensions and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth, and business regulation u.s. regulation insurance regulation holding company regulation . dividend stopper provisions in our preferred stock and junior subordinated debentures certain terms of our preferred stock and our junior subordinated debentures may prevent us from repurchasing our common stock or paying dividends on our common stock in certain circumstances. metlife, inc. also has entered into certain replacement capital covenants. these covenants limit our ability to eliminate these restrictions through the repayment, redemption or purchase of preferred stock or junior subordinated debentures by requiring metlife, with some limitations, to receive cash proceeds during a specified period from the sale of specified replacement securities prior to any repayment, redemption or purchase. see note 14 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for a description of such covenants in effect with respect to junior subordinated debentures. if we have not paid the full dividends on our preferred stock for the latest completed dividend period, we may not repurchase or pay dividends on our common stock during a dividend period. under our junior subordinated debentures, if we have not paid in full the accrued interest through the most recent interest payment date on our junior subordinated debentures, we may not repurchase or pay dividends on our common stock or other capital stock (including the preferred stock), subject to certain exceptions. trigger events for the restrictions on the payment of dividends on our preferred stock and restrictions on the payment of interest on our junior subordinated debentures in addition, the preferred stock and the junior subordinated debentures contain provisions that would automatically suspend the payment of preferred stock dividends and interest on junior subordinated debentures if metlife, inc. fails to meet certain tests ( trigger events ). in such cases, and subject to the terms of the instruments, metlife, inc. could make payments up to the amount of net proceeds from sales of (i) common stock during the 90 days preceding the dividend declaration date or (ii) common stock or certain kinds of warrants to purchase common stock generally during the 180 days prior to the interest payment date (the new equity proceeds ). if the new equity proceeds were insufficient to make such payments, the dividend stopper provisions would come into effect and we would be unable to repurchase or pay dividends on our common stock. 70 table of contents a trigger event would occur if: the rbc ratio of metlife's largest u.s. insurance subsidiaries in the aggregate (as defined in the applicable instrument) were to be less than 175% of the company action level based on the subsidiaries' prior year annual financial statements filed (generally around march 1) with state insurance commissioners; or at the end of a quarter ( final quarter end test date ), consolidated gaap net income for the four-quarter period ending two quarters before such quarter-end (the preliminary quarter end test date ) is zero or a negative amount and the consolidated gaap stockholders' equity, minus aoci (the adjusted stockholders' equity amount ), as of the final quarter end test date and the preliminary quarter end test date, declined by 10% or more from (a) its level 10 quarters before the final quarter end test date (the benchmark quarter end test date ), for benchmark quarter end test dates after august 4, 2017 (the date of the separation), or (b) $49,282,000,000, the consolidated gaap stockholders' equity, minus aoci as of june 30, 2017 as reported on a pro forma basis reflecting the separation in metlife's form 8-k filed with the sec on august 9, 2017, for benchmark quarter end test dates prior to august 4, 2017. once a trigger event occurs for a final quarter end test date, the suspension of payments of dividends and interest (in the absence of sufficient new equity proceeds) would continue until there is no trigger event at a subsequent final quarter end test date, and, if the test in the second paragraph above caused the trigger event, the adjusted stockholders' equity amount is no longer 10% or more below its level at the benchmark quarter end test date that is associated with the trigger event. in the case of successive trigger events, the suspension would continue until metlife satisfies these conditions for each of the trigger events. dividends on our preferred stock are subject to declaration by our board of directors in addition, dividends on our preferred stock are subject to declaration each quarter by our board of directors. if our board of directors does not declare dividends on the preferred stock for any quarterly dividend period, the dividend stopper provisions in our preferred stock would prevent us from repurchasing or paying dividends on our common stock for that period. optional deferral of interest on the junior subordinated debentures the junior subordinated debentures provide that we may, at our option and provided that certain conditions are met, defer payment of interest without giving rise to an event of default for periods of up to 10 years. in that case, after five years metlife, inc. would be obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to sell equity securities to raise proceeds to pay the interest. we would not be subject to limitations on the number of deferral periods that we could begin, so long as all accrued and unpaid interest is paid with respect to prior deferral periods. if we were to defer payments of interest, the dividend stopper provisions in the junior subordinated debentures would thus prevent us from repurchasing or paying dividends on our common stock or other capital stock (including the preferred stock) during the period of deferral, subject to exceptions. see note 14 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about these restrictions. as a holding company, metlife, inc. depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends, a major component of holding company free cash flow metlife, inc. is a holding company for its insurance and financial subsidiaries and does not have any significant operations of its own. dividends from its subsidiaries and permitted payments to it under its tax sharing agreement with its subsidiaries are its principal sources of cash to meet its obligations and to pay preferred and common stock dividends. if the cash metlife, inc. receives from its subsidiaries is insufficient for it to fund its debt service and other holding company obligations, metlife, inc. may be required to raise cash through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of additional equity or the sale of assets. the payment of dividends and other distributions to metlife, inc. by its u.s. insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. in general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits require insurance regulatory approval. in addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of dividends or other payments by its insurance subsidiaries to metlife, inc. if they determine that the payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. the payment of dividends and other distributions by insurance companies is also influenced by business conditions and rating agency considerations. see business regulation u.s. regulation insurance regulation and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources metlife, inc. liquidity and capital sources dividends from subsidiaries. see also regulatory and legal risks our insurance, pensions and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. 71 table of contents any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or advances by our foreign subsidiaries and branches to metlife, inc. could be subject to taxation, insurance regulatory or other restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdiction in which such foreign subsidiaries operate. see business regulation international regulation and risks related to our business our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability. from time to time, metlife, inc. or its subsidiaries may establish net worth maintenance or other support agreements with other subsidiaries. those commitments may limit such supported subsidiary's ability to pay metlife, inc. dividends, or require metlife, inc. or another subsidiary to transfer capital to such supported subsidiary, in either case limiting capital that is available for other purposes. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources metlife, inc. liquidity and capital uses support agreements. dividends from operating subsidiaries are a major component of holding company free cash flow. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations non-gaap and other financial disclosures. if metlife, inc.'s operating subsidiaries were unable to make expected dividend payments to metlife, inc., we may be unable to meet our free cash flow goals and our ability to distribute cash to shareholders could be adversely affected. operational risks our risk management policies and procedures or our models may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business our enterprise risk management program is designed to mitigate material risks and loss to the company. we have developed and continue to develop our risk management policies and procedures to reflect the ongoing review of our risks and expect to continue to do so in the future. nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not be comprehensive and may not identify every risk to which we are exposed. many of our methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior to model or project potential future exposure. models used by our business are based on assumptions, projections and data which may be inaccurate. business or other decisions, including determination of reserves, based on incorrect or misused model output and reports could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. model risk may be the result of a model being misspecified for its intended purpose, being misused or producing incorrect or inappropriate results. models used by our business may not operate properly and could contain errors related to model inputs, data, assumptions, calculations, or output. we perform model reviews that could give rise to adjustments to models that may adversely impact our results of operations. additionally, our model review process may not adequately identify or remediate errors in or related to our models. as a result, our models may not fully predict future exposures or correctly reflect past experience, which may have a material impact on our business, reputation, results of operations or financial condition. other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. this information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. furthermore, there can be no assurance that we can effectively review and monitor all risks or that all of our employees will follow our risk management policies and procedures, nor can there be any assurance that our risk management policies and procedures will enable us to accurately identify all risks and limit our exposures based on our assessments. in addition, we may have to implement more extensive and perhaps different risk management policies and procedures under pending regulations. see business regulation u.s. regulation, business regulation international regulation global systemically important insurers and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are highly dependent on our ability to process a large number of complex transactions across our businesses. the large number of transactions we process makes it possible that errors will occasionally occur, and the controls and procedures we have in place to prevent such errors may not be entirely effective. the occurrence of mistakes, particularly significant ones, can subject us to claims from our customers and may have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations, or financial condition. we are dependent on our group product customers or their employees for certain information to accurately review and pay claims on many of our products. if we are unable to obtain necessary and accurate information from our customers, we may be unable provide coverage and to pay claims, or we may pay claims without accurate or complete documentation, which may have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations, or financial condition. 72 table of contents from time to time, we rely on vendors or other service providers for services related to the administration of our products, investment management, or other business operations. to the extent our efforts to ensure such vendors' controls meet our standards are inadequate, our vendors fail to perform their services accurately or timely, the exchange of information between us and our vendors is imperfect, or our vendors suffer financial or reputational distress, any errors or misconduct that result could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations, or financial condition. the continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio and the level of claim losses we incur the continued threat of terrorism, both within the u.s. and abroad, ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility in global financial markets and result in loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. the value of assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the credit and equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. companies in which we maintain investments may suffer losses as a result of financial, commercial or economic disruptions and such disruptions might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or principal on their securities or mortgage loans. terrorist actions also could disrupt our operations centers in the u.s. or abroad and result in higher than anticipated claims under our insurance policies. see economic environment and capital markets-related risks difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. the failure in cyber- or other information security systems, as well as the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning, could result in a loss or disclosure of confidential information, damage to our reputation and impairment of our ability to conduct business effectively our business is highly dependent upon the effective operation of our computer systems. we rely on these systems throughout our business for a variety of functions, including processing claims, transactions and applications, providing information to customers and distributors, performing actuarial analyses and maintaining financial records. we also retain confidential and proprietary information on our computer systems and we rely on sophisticated technologies to maintain the security of that information. our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized or fraudulent access, cyberattacks or other computer-related penetrations. publicly reported cyber-security threats and incidents have increased over recent periods. the administrative and technical controls and other preventive actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber-incidents and protect our information technology may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks, compromised credentials, fraud, other security breaches or other unauthorized access to our computer systems. in some cases, such physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks, compromised credentials, fraud, other security breaches or other unauthorized access may not be immediately detected. this may impede or interrupt our business operations and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the availability and cost of insurance for operational and other risks relating to our business and systems may change and any such change may affect our results of operations. in the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, epidemic, industrial accident, blackout, computer virus, terrorist attack, cyberattack or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial position, particularly if those problems affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data. in addition, in the event that a significant number of our managers, or employees generally, were unavailable following a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. these interruptions also may interfere with our suppliers' ability to provide goods and services and our employees' ability to perform their job responsibilities. 73 table of contents the failure of our computer systems and/or our disaster recovery plans for any reason could cause significant interruptions in our operations and result in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to our customers. such a failure could harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory investigations and sanctions, expose us to legal claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. although we conduct due diligence, negotiate contractual provisions and, in many cases, conduct periodic reviews of our vendors, distributors, and other third parties that provide operational or information technology services to us to confirm compliance with metlife's information security standards, the failure of such third parties' computer systems and/or their disaster recovery plans for any reason might cause significant interruptions in our operations and result in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to our customers. such a failure could harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions and legal claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. while we maintain cyber liability insurance that provides both third-party liability and first-party liability coverages, our insurance may not be sufficient to protect us against all losses. metlife, inc. and its subsidiaries maintain a primary cybersecurity and privacy liability insurance policy with a limit of $15 million, and have additional coverage for cybersecurity and privacy liability available under blended professional liability excess coverage policies with a total limit of $210 million. there can be no assurance that our information security policies and systems in place can prevent unauthorized access use or disclosure of confidential information, including nonpublic personal information, nor can we be certain that we will be able to reliably access all of the documents and records in the information storage systems we use, whether electronic or physical. in some circumstances, we may fail to obtain or maintain all of the records we need to accurately and timely administer, and establish appropriate reserves for benefits and claims with respect to, our products, which failure could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations or our financial condition. we are continuously evaluating and enhancing systems and creating new systems and processes as our business depends on our ability to maintain and improve our technology systems. due to the complexity and interconnectedness of our systems and processes, these changes, as well as changes designed to update and enhance our protective measures to address new threats, increase the risk of a system or process failure or the creation of a gap in our security measures. any such failure or gap could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations or financial condition. any failure to protect the confidentiality of client information could adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations pursuant to u.s. federal and state laws, and laws of other jurisdictions in which we operate, various government agencies have established rules protecting the privacy and security of personal information. in addition, most u.s. states and a number of jurisdictions outside the united states have enacted laws, which vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, to safeguard the privacy and security of personal information. the area of cybersecurity has also come under increased scrutiny by insurance regulators. on march 1, 2017, new york's cybersecurity regulation for financial services institutions, including banking and insurance entities, became effective, and on october 24, 2017, the naic adopted the insurance data security model law, which, if adopted as state legislation, would establish standards for data security and for the investigation of and notification of insurance commissioners of cybersecurity events. see business regulation u.s. regulation insurance regulation cybersecurity regulation. many of the associates who conduct our business have access to, and routinely process, personal information of clients through a variety of media, including information technology systems. we rely on various internal processes and controls to protect the confidentiality of client information that is accessible to, or in the possession of, our company and our associates. it is possible that an associate could, intentionally or unintentionally, disclose or misappropriate confidential client information or our data could be the subject of a cybersecurity attack. if we fail to maintain adequate internal controls or if our associates fail to comply with our policies and procedures, misappropriation or intentional or unintentional inappropriate disclosure or misuse of client information could occur. such internal control inadequacies or non-compliance could materially damage our reputation or lead to regulatory, civil or criminal investigations and penalties, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we analyze customer data to better manage our business. there has been increased scrutiny, including from u.s. state and federal regulators, regarding the use of big data techniques such as price optimization. we cannot predict what, if any, actions may be taken with regard to big data, but any inquiries could cause reputational harm and any limitations could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 74 table of contents our associates may take excessive risks which could negatively affect our financial condition and business as an insurance enterprise, we are in the business of accepting certain risks. the associates who conduct our business, including executive officers and other members of management, sales managers, investment professionals, product managers, sales agents, wholesalers, underwriters, and other associates, do so in part by making decisions and choices that involve exposing us to risk. these include decisions such as setting underwriting guidelines and standards, product design and pricing, determining what assets to purchase for investment and when to sell them, which business opportunities to pursue, and other decisions. we endeavor, in the design and implementation of our compensation programs and practices, to avoid giving our associates incentives to take excessive risks; however, associates may take such risks regardless of the structure of our compensation programs and practices. similarly, although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor associates' business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks, and to prevent employee misconduct, these controls and procedures may not be effective. if our associates take excessive risks, the impact of those risks could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and business operations. technological changes may present new and increased challenges to our business recent and future changes in technology may present us with new challenges and may intensify many of the challenges that we already face. for example, as a result of the availability of new technological tools for data collection and analysis, we have access to an increasing amount of data, from an increasing variety of sources, regarding deaths of our policyholders and annuitants. we may be unable to accurately or completely process this increased volume of information within the time periods required by applicable standards. furthermore, the additional information that we obtain as a result of technological improvements may require us to modify our assumptions, models, or reserves. changes in technology related to collection and analysis of data regarding customers could, in these ways or others, expose us to regulatory or legal actions and may have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations, and financial condition. see risks related to our business differences between actual claims experience and underwriting and reserving assumptions may adversely affect our financial results. technological changes may also impact the ways in which we interact with our customers. as technology evolves, customers may expect increased choices in the ways in which they interact with us. we may also be required to redesign certain of our products to meet changing customer preferences. our distribution channels may become more automated in order to provide customers with increased flexibility to access our services and products at times and places of their choosing. such changes may require significant costs to implement. if we are unsuccessful in implementing such changes, our competitive position may be harmed and our relationships with our distribution partners may suffer. see risks related to our business competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability and general risks we may experience difficulty in marketing and distributing products through our distribution channels. technological advances may also impact the composition and results of our investment portfolio. for example, changes in energy technology may impact the relative attractiveness of investments in a variety of energy sources, and increasing consumer preferences for e-commerce may negatively impact the profitability of retail and commercial real estate. if we are unable to adjust our investments in reaction to such changes, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. advances in medical technology may also adversely affect us. improvements in medical technologies that extend lives may require us to modify our assumptions, models, or reserves. additionally, increases in the prevalence and accuracy of genetic testing, or legislation or regulation regarding the use by insurers of information produced by such testing, may exacerbate adverse selection risks. such changes in medical technologies may thus have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 75 table of contents general risks metlife, inc.'s board of directors may influence the outcome of stockholder votes on many matters due to the voting provisions of the metlife policyholder trust under the plan of reorganization, we established the metlife policyholder trust to hold the shares of metlife, inc. common stock allocated to eligible policyholders not receiving cash or policy credits under the plan. as of february 16, 2018, the trust held 154,420,615 shares, or 14.9%, of the outstanding shares of metlife, inc. common stock. because of voting provisions of the trust and the number of shares held by it, the trust may affect the outcome of matters brought to a stockholder vote. except on votes regarding certain fundamental corporate actions described below, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held in the trust in accordance with the recommendations given by metlife, inc.'s board of directors to its stockholders or, if the board gives no such recommendations, as directed by the board. as a result of the voting provisions of the trust, the board of directors may be able to influence the outcome of votes on matters submitted to a vote of stockholders, excluding certain fundamental corporate actions, so long as the trust holds a substantial number of shares of common stock. if the vote relates to fundamental corporate actions specified in the trust, the trustee will solicit instructions from the trust beneficiaries and vote all shares held in the trust in proportion to the instructions it receives. these actions include: an election or removal of directors in which a stockholder has properly nominated one or more candidates in opposition to a nominee or nominees of metlife, inc.'s board of directors or a vote on a stockholder's proposal to oppose a board nominee for director, remove a director for cause or fill a vacancy caused by the removal of a director by stockholders, subject to certain conditions; a merger or consolidation, a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the assets, or a recapitalization or dissolution, of metlife, inc., in each case requiring a vote of stockholders under applicable delaware law; any transaction that would result in an exchange or conversion of shares of common stock held by the trust for cash, securities or other property; and any proposal requiring metlife, inc.'s board of directors to amend or redeem the rights under metlife, inc.'s stockholder rights plan, other than a proposal with respect to which we have received advice of nationally-recognized legal counsel to the effect that the proposal is not a proper subject for stockholder action under delaware law. metlife, inc. does not currently have a stockholder rights plan. if a vote concerns any of these fundamental corporate actions, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held by the trust in proportion to the instructions it received, which will give disproportionate weight to the instructions actually given by trust beneficiaries. the metlife policyholder trust agreement provides that we may terminate the trust once the percentage of outstanding shares held in the trust falls to 25%. the winding up of the trust must commence 90 days after we provide the trustee with notice that the percentage of outstanding shares held in the trust is 10% or less. in connection with any termination of the trust, all of the shares of common stock then held in the trust will need to be distributed to the respective trust beneficiaries, unless we offer to purchase all or a portion of such trust shares. in connection with the termination of the trust and such a distribution, we may incur costs related to regulatory filings, mailings to trust beneficiaries or others, and costs related to an increase in the number of shareholders, which may include increased mailing and proxy solicitation expenses. after such a distribution, the addition of the respective trust beneficiaries to our shareholder base with full voting rights may have a significant impact on matters brought to a stockholder vote and other aspects of our corporate governance. changes in accounting standards issued by the financial accounting standards board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements our financial statements are subject to the application of gaap, which is periodically revised and/or expanded. accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the financial accounting standards board (the fasb ). the impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in our reports filed with the sec. see note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. an assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and official positions of the fasb are determined only after extensive due process and deliberations. therefore, the effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. the required adoption of future accounting standards could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 76 table of contents changes in our assumptions regarding the discount rate, expected rate of return, mortality rates and expected increase in compensation used for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability we determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on our best estimates of future plan experience. these assumptions are reviewed regularly and include discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets, mortality rates, expected increases in compensation levels and expected medical inflation. changes in these assumptions may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. see note 17 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for details on how changes in these assumptions would affect plan costs. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims we rely on a combination of contractual rights with third parties and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. although we endeavor to protect our rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. we may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. this would represent a diversion of resources that may be significant and our efforts may not prove successful. the inability to secure or protect our intellectual property assets could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete with other insurers and financial institutions. in addition, we may be subject to claims by third parties for (i) patent, trademark or copyright infringement, (ii) breach of patent, trademark or copyright license usage rights, or (iii) misappropriation of trade secrets. any such claims or resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability for damages. if we were found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party patent or other intellectual property right, we could in some circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or from utilizing and benefiting from certain patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties or implement a costly alternative. any of these scenarios could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may experience difficulty in marketing and distributing products through our distribution channels since the completion of the u.s. retail advisor force divestiture in july 2016, we primarily distribute our products through a variety of third-party distribution channels. we may periodically negotiate the terms of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. an interruption in certain key relationships could materially affect our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. distributors may elect to suspend, alter, reduce or terminate their distribution relationships with us for various reasons, including changes in our distribution strategy, adverse developments in our business, adverse rating agency actions or concerns about market-related risks. we are also at risk that key distribution partners may merge, change their business models in ways that affect how our products are sold, or terminate their distribution contracts with us, or that new distribution channels could emerge and adversely impact the effectiveness of our distribution efforts. consolidation of distributors and/or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us. when our products are distributed through unaffiliated firms, we may not be able to monitor or control the manner of their distribution despite our training and compliance programs. if our products are distributed by such firms in an inappropriate manner, or to customers for whom they are unsuitable, we may suffer reputational and other harm to our business. state laws, federal laws, our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws may delay, deter or prevent takeovers and business combinations that stockholders might consider in their best interests state laws, federal laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. for instance, such restrictions may prevent stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of metlife, inc.'s common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of metlife, inc.'s common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. 77 table of contents any person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would face various regulatory obstacles, including: applicable state insurance laws and regulations may delay or impede a business combination involving us by prohibiting an entity from acquiring control (generally presumed to exist at direct or indirect ownership of 10% or more of voting stock) of an insurance company domiciled in the united states without the prior approval of the domestic insurance regulator. many foreign jurisdictions in which we operate have similar regulatory approval requirements. if the acquiring entity is a bank or non-bank sifi, dodd-frank provisions that restrict or impede consolidations, mergers and acquisitions by systemically significant firms. provisions of the investment company act that require approval by the contract owners of our variable contracts in order to effectuate a change of control of any affiliated investment adviser to a mutual fund underlying our variable contracts. finra approval requirements for a change of control of any finra registered broker-dealer that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of metlife, inc. provisions of the delaware general corporation law may affect the ability of an interested stockholder (the owner of 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation) to engage in certain business combinations for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. in addition, metlife, inc.'s certificate of incorporation and by-laws also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests or may otherwise adversely affect prevailing market prices for metlife, inc.'s common stock. these provisions include: a prohibition on the calling of special meetings or action by written consent by stockholders; and advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates to the board of directors and stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings. a majority of the combined voting power of the outstanding shares entitled to vote generally in the election of directors may amend metlife, inc.'s certificate of incorporation or by-laws. this may allow shareholders to change the company's corporate governance and, therefore, make it more difficult for the board of directors to protect shareholders' interests, e.g., if they are presented with an acquisition proposal that undervalues the company. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 190 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management we have an integrated process for managing risk, which we conduct through multiple board and senior management committees (financial and non-financial) across the grm, alm, finance, treasury, investments and business segment departments. the risk committee structure is designed to provide a consolidated enterprise-wide assessment and management of risk. the erc is responsible for reviewing all material risks to the enterprise and deciding on actions, if necessary, in the event risks exceed desired tolerances, taking into consideration industry best practices and the current environment to resolve or mitigate those risks. additional committees at the metlife, inc. and subsidiary insurance company level manage capital and risk positions, and establish corporate business standards. global risk management independent from the lines of business, the centralized grm, led by the cro, coordinates across all committees to ensure that all material risks are properly identified, measured, aggregated, managed and reported across the company. the cro reports to the ceo and is primarily responsible for maintaining and communicating the company's enterprise risk policies and for monitoring and analyzing all material risks. 190 table of contents grm considers and monitors a full range of risks against the company's solvency, liquidity, earnings, business operations and reputation. grm's primary responsibilities consist of: implementing a corporate risk framework, which outlines our enterprise approach for managing risk; developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring, monitoring and controlling those risks identified in the corporate risk framework; coordinating own risk and solvency assessments for the board, senior management and regulator use; establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels; recommending risk appetite statements and investment general authorizations to the board; measuring capital on an economic basis; recommending capital allocations on an economic capital basis; and reporting to (i) the finance and risk committee of metlife, inc.'s board of directors; (ii) the investment committee of metlife, inc.'s board of directors (iii) the compensation committee of metlife, inc.'s board of directors; and (iv) the financial and non-financial senior management committees on various aspects of risk. asset/liability management we actively manage our assets using an approach that is liability driven and balances quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity, concentration and investment return. the goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income tax, risk-adjusted investment income and risk-adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are reasonably aligned on a cash flow and duration basis. the alm process is the shared responsibility of the alm, grm, and investments departments, with the engagement of senior members of the business segments, and is governed by the alm committees. the alm committees' duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios investment guidelines and limits, approving significant portfolio and alm strategies and providing oversight of the alm process. the directives of the alm committees are carried out and monitored through alm working groups which are set up to manage risk by geography, product or portfolio type. generally, our alm steering committee and the hybrid guarantee product alm committee oversee the activities of the underlying alm committees and working groups. the alm steering committee and hybrid guarantee product alm committee report to the erc. we establish portfolio guidelines that define ranges and limits related to asset allocation, interest rate risk, liquidity, concentration and other risks for each major business segment, legal entity or insurance product group. these guidelines support implementation of investment strategies used to adequately fund our liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. we also establish va hedging programs and associated investment portfolios for different blocks of va business. the alm working groups monitor these strategies and programs through regular review of portfolio metrics, such as effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, value at risk, va market sensitivities (to interest rates, equity market levels, equity volatility, and foreign exchange rates), stress scenario payoffs, liquidity, foreign exchange, asset sector concentration and credit quality. market risk exposures we regularly analyze our exposure to interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market price risk. as a result of that analysis, we have determined that the estimated fair values of certain assets and liabilities are materially exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets. we have exposure to market risk through our insurance operations and investment activities. for purposes of this disclosure, market risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets. interest rates our exposure to interest rate changes results most significantly from our holdings of fixed maturity securities, as well as our interest rate sensitive liabilities. the fixed maturity securities include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities and abs, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium- and long-term interest rates. the interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include debt, policyholder account balances related to certain investment type contracts, and embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits which have the same type of interest rate exposure (medium- and long-term interest rates) as fixed maturity securities. the interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure exclude a significant portion of the liabilities relating to insurance contracts. see risk factors economic environment and capital markets-related risks we are exposed to significant global financial and capital markets risks which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and may cause our net investment income to vary from period to period. 191 table of contents foreign currency exchange rates our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar results from our holdings in non-u.s. dollar denominated fixed maturity and equity securities, mortgage loans, and certain liabilities, as well as through our investments in foreign subsidiaries. the foreign currency exchange rate liabilities for purposes of this disclosure exclude a significant portion of the liabilities relating to insurance contracts. the principal currencies that create foreign currency exchange rate risk in our investment portfolios and liabilities are the euro, the japanese yen and the british pound. selectively, we use u.s. dollar assets to support certain long-duration foreign currency liabilities. through our investments in foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures, we are primarily exposed to the japanese yen, the euro, the australian dollar, the british pound, the mexican peso, the chilean peso and the korean won. in addition to hedging with foreign currency swaps, forwards and options, local surplus in some countries may be held entirely or in part in u.s. dollar assets, which further minimize exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. we have matched much of our foreign currency liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency assets, thereby reducing our risk to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. see risk factors risks related to our business fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our profitability. equity market along with investments in equity securities, we have exposure to equity market risk through certain liabilities that involve long-term guarantees on equity performance such as embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits and certain policyholder account balances. in addition, we have a significant equity ownership position in brighthouse financial, inc., and changes in the market price of its common stock may have a material impact on us. our equity exposure to brighthouse financial, inc. is included in the analysis. equity exposures associated with other limited partnership interests are excluded from this discussion as they are not considered financial instruments under gaap. management of market risk exposures we use a variety of strategies to manage interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market risk, including the use of derivatives. interest rate risk management to manage interest rate risk, we analyze interest rate risk using various models, including multi-scenario cash flow projection models that forecast cash flows of the liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivatives. these projections involve evaluating the potential gain or loss on most of our in-force business under various increasing and decreasing interest rate environments. the nydfs regulations require that we perform some of these analyses annually as part of our review of the sufficiency of our regulatory reserves. for several of our legal entities, we maintain segmented operating and surplus asset portfolios for the purpose of alm and the allocation of investment income to product lines. for each segment, invested assets greater than or equal to the gaap liabilities net of certain non-invested assets allocated to the segment are maintained, with any excess allocated to corporate &amp; other. the business segments may reflect differences in legal entity, statutory line of business and any product market characteristic which may drive a distinct investment strategy with respect to duration, liquidity or credit quality of the invested assets. certain smaller entities make use of unsegmented general accounts for which the investment strategy reflects the aggregate characteristics of liabilities in those entities. we measure relative sensitivities of the value of our assets and liabilities to changes in key assumptions utilizing internal models. these models reflect specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting rates. in addition, these models include asset cash flow projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage loan prepayments and defaults. we employ product design, pricing and alm strategies to reduce the potential effects of interest rate movements. product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products and the ability to reset crediting rates for certain products. alm strategies include the use of derivatives. we also use reinsurance to mitigate interest rate risk. we also use common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and liability values to changes in interest rates. in computing the duration of liabilities, we consider all policyholder guarantees and how we intend to set indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or dividends. each asset portfolio or portfolio group has a duration target based on the liability duration and the investment objectives of that portfolio. where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity of available assets, we may support such liabilities with equity investments, derivatives or interest rate curve mismatch strategies. 192 table of contents foreign currency exchange rate risk management metlife has a well-established enterprise foreign exchange ( fx ) risk policy to ensure it manages foreign currency exchange rate exposures within its risk tolerance. in general, investments backing specific liabilities are currency matched. this is achieved through direct investments in matching currency or through the use of fx derivatives. enterprise fx risk limits are established by the erc. management of each of our segments, with oversight from our fx risk committee and the respective alm committee for the segment, is responsible for managing any foreign currency exchange rate exposure. we use foreign currency swaps, forwards and options to mitigate the liability exposure, risk of loss and financial statement volatility associated with our investments in foreign subsidiaries, foreign currency denominated fixed income investments and the sale of certain insurance products. equity market risk management we manage equity market risk on an integrated basis with other risks through our alm strategies, including the dynamic hedging of certain variable annuity guarantee benefits, as well as reinsurance, in order to limit losses, minimize exposure to large risks, and provide additional capacity for future growth. we also manage equity market risk exposure in our investment portfolio through the use of derivatives. these derivatives include exchange-traded equity futures, equity index options contracts, total rate of return swaps and equity variance swaps. this risk is managed by our alm unit in partnership with the investments department. hedging activities we use derivative contracts primarily to hedge a wide range of risks including interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and equity market risk. derivative hedges are designed to reduce risk on an economic basis while considering their impact on financial results under different accounting regimes, including u.s. gaap and local statutory accounting. our derivative hedge programs vary depending on the type of risk being hedged. some hedge programs are asset or liability specific while others are portfolio hedges that reduce risk related to a group of liabilities or assets. our use of derivatives by major hedge programs is as follows: risks related to guarantee benefits we use a wide range of derivative contracts to mitigate the risk associated with variable annuity living guarantee benefits. these derivatives include equity and interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, currency futures/forwards, equity indexed options, total rate of return swaps, interest rate option contracts and equity variance swaps. minimum interest rate guarantees for certain liability contracts, we provide the contractholder a guaranteed minimum interest rate. these contracts include certain fixed annuities and other insurance liabilities. we purchase interest rate floors to reduce risk associated with these liability guarantees. reinvestment risk in long-duration liability contracts derivatives are used to hedge interest rate risk related to certain long-duration liability contracts. hedges include interest rate swaps and swaptions. foreign currency exchange rate risk we use currency swaps, forwards and options to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risk. these hedges are generally used to swap foreign currency denominated bonds, investments in foreign subsidiaries or equity market exposures to u.s. dollars. our foreign subsidiaries also use these hedges to swap non-local currency assets to local currency, to match liabilities . general alm hedging strategies in the ordinary course of managing our asset/liability risks, we use interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, and inflation swaps. these hedges are designed to reduce interest rate risk or inflation risk related to the existing assets or liabilities or related to expected future cash flows. 193 table of contents risk measurement: sensitivity analysis we measure market risk related to our market sensitive assets and liabilities based on changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity market prices utilizing a sensitivity analysis. for purposes of this disclosure, a significant portion of the liabilities relating to insurance contracts is excluded, as discussed further below. this analysis estimates the potential changes in estimated fair value based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity market prices. we believe that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the near term. in performing the analysis summarized below, we used market rates at december 31, 2017 . the sensitivity analysis separately calculates each of our market risk exposures (interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market) relating to our assets and liabilities. we modeled the impact of changes in market rates and prices on the estimated fair values of our market sensitive assets and liabilities as follows: the net present values of our interest rate sensitive exposures resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates; the u.s. dollar equivalent estimated fair values of our foreign currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase in the value of the u.s. dollar compared to all foreign currencies or decrease in the value of the u.s. dollar compared to all foreign currencies) in foreign currency exchange rates; and the estimated fair value of our equity positions due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity market prices. the sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as predictive of our future financial performance. we cannot ensure that our actual losses in any particular period will not exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. limitations related to this sensitivity analysis include: interest sensitive and foreign currency exchange sensitive liabilities do not include $193.5 billion of insurance contracts, which are accounted for on a book value basis. management believes that the changes in the economic value of those contracts under changing interest rates and changing foreign currency exchange rates would offset a significant portion of the fair value changes of interest sensitive and foreign currency exchange rate sensitive assets. the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgage loans; sensitivities do not include the impact on asset or liability valuation of changes in market liquidity or changes in market credit spreads; foreign currency risk is not isolated for certain embedded derivatives within host asset and liability contracts, as the risk on these instruments is reflected as equity; for the derivatives that qualify as hedges, and for certain other assets such as mortgage loans, the impact on reported earnings may be materially different from the change in market values; the analysis excludes liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts and real estate holdings; and the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains unchanged throughout the period. accordingly, we use such models as tools and not as substitutes for the experience and judgment of our management. based on our analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and prices, we have determined that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the estimated fair value of certain assets and liabilities from interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market exposures. the table below illustrates the potential loss in estimated fair value for each market risk exposure of our market sensitive assets and liabilities at: december 31, 2017 (in millions) interest rate risk $ 5,862 foreign currency exchange rate risk $ 7,867 equity market risk $ 71 __________________ 194 table of contents in 2016, the company reinvested its trading securities portfolio into other asset classes and, at december 31, 2016, the company no longer held any actively traded securities. the potential losses in estimated fair value presented are for non-trading securities. the risk sensitivities derived used a 10% increase to interest rates, a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies, and a 10% decrease in equity prices. 195 table of contents the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our interest sensitive financial instruments due to a 10% increase in yield curve by type of asset or liability at: december 31, 2017 notional amount estimated fair value (1) assuming a 10% increase in the yield curve (in millions) assets fixed maturity securities $ 308,931 $ (5,130 ) equity securities $ 2,513 fvo general account securities $ 2,224 (7 ) mortgage loans $ 69,797 (657 ) policy loans $ 11,512 (103 ) short-term investments $ 4,870 (4 ) other invested assets $ 608 cash and cash equivalents $ 12,701 accrued investment income $ 3,524 premiums, reinsurance and other receivables $ 4,339 (236 ) other assets $ 328 (3 ) embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) $ 144 total assets $ (6,140 ) liabilities (3) policyholder account balances $ 111,415 $ 581 payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions $ 25,723 short-term debt $ 477 long-term debt $ 17,773 380 collateral financing arrangement $ 894 junior subordinated debt securities $ 4,319 106 other liabilities $ 3,841 (43 ) embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) $ 418 105 total liabilities $ 1,129 derivative instruments interest rate swaps $ 67,912 $ 4,144 $ (629 ) interest rate floors $ 7,201 $ 92 (22 ) interest rate caps $ 53,079 $ 76 43 interest rate futures $ 4,366 $ (2 ) 34 interest rate options $ 12,009 $ 645 (25 ) interest rate forwards $ 3,549 $ (170 ) (130 ) interest rate total return swaps $ 1,048 $ 6 (53 ) synthetic gics $ 11,318 $ foreign currency swaps $ 43,170 $ (304 ) (62 ) foreign currency forwards $ 15,823 $ (149 ) 2 currency futures $ 846 $ 2 currency options $ 12,531 $ (70 ) (4 ) credit default swaps $ 13,395 $ 235 (1 ) equity futures $ 4,005 $ 14 equity index options $ 19,886 $ (121 ) (4 ) equity variance swaps $ 4,661 $ (145 ) equity total return swaps $ 1,117 $ (41 ) total derivative instruments $ (851 ) net change $ (5,862 ) __________________ (1) separate account assets and liabilities and contractholder-directed unit-linked investments and associated policyholder account balances, which are interest rate sensitive, are not included herein as any interest rate risk is borne by the contractholder. fvo general account securities and long-term debt exclude $6 million and $5 million, respectively, related to cses. see note 8 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding cses. 196 table of contents (2) embedded derivatives are recognized on the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. (3) excludes $ 193.5 billion of liabilities, at carrying value, pursuant to insurance contracts reported within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances. these liabilities would economically offset a significant portion of the net change in fair value of our financial instruments resulting from a 10% increase in the yield curve. sensitivity to rising interest rates increased $0.1 billion to $5.9 billion at december 31, 2017 from $5.8 billion december 31, 2016. sensitivity increased $0.2 billion as a result of increased rates and durations, since the sensitivity is calculated based on a 10% increase in the yield curve, offset with a decrease of $0.1 billion from our use of derivatives, used by the company as hedges against low rates. 197 table of contents the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our portfolio due to a 10% increase in the u.s. dollar compared to all foreign currencies at: december 31, 2017 notional amount estimated fair value (1) assuming a 10% increase in the foreign exchange rate (in millions) assets fixed maturity securities $ 308,931 $ (9,746 ) equity securities $ 2,513 (59 ) fvo general account securities $ 2,224 (93 ) mortgage loans $ 69,797 (870 ) policy loans $ 11,512 (157 ) short-term investments $ 4,870 (312 ) other invested assets $ 608 (207 ) cash and cash equivalents $ 12,701 (478 ) accrued investment income $ 3,524 (103 ) premiums, reinsurance and other receivables $ 4,339 (43 ) other assets $ 328 (8 ) embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) $ 144 (14 ) total assets $ (12,090 ) liabilities (3) policyholder account balances $ 111,415 $ 3,722 payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions $ 25,723 123 long-term debt $ 17,773 118 other liabilities $ 3,841 9 embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) $ 418 42 total liabilities $ 4,014 derivative instruments interest rate swaps $ 67,912 $ 4,144 $ (37 ) interest rate floors $ 7,201 $ 92 interest rate caps $ 53,079 $ 76 interest rate futures $ 4,366 $ (2 ) interest rate options $ 12,009 $ 645 (51 ) interest rate forwards $ 3,549 $ (170 ) 4 interest rate total return swaps $ 1,048 $ 6 synthetic gics $ 11,318 $ foreign currency swaps $ 43,170 $ (304 ) 629 foreign currency forwards $ 15,823 $ (149 ) (804 ) currency futures $ 846 $ 2 (85 ) currency options $ 12,531 $ (70 ) 542 credit default swaps $ 13,395 $ 235 (6 ) equity futures $ 4,005 $ 14 equity index options $ 19,886 $ (121 ) 17 equity variance swaps $ 4,661 $ (145 ) equity total return swaps $ 1,117 $ (41 ) total derivative instruments $ 209 net change $ (7,867 ) __________________ (1) does not necessarily represent those financial instruments solely subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk. separate account assets and liabilities and contractholder-directed unit-linked investments and associated policyholder account balances, which are foreign currency exchange rate sensitive, are not included herein as any foreign currency exchange rate risk is borne by the contractholder. fvo general securities and long-term debt exclude $6 million and $5 million, respectively, related to cses. see note 8 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding cses. 198 table of contents (2) embedded derivatives are recognized on the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. (3) excludes $ 193.5 billion of liabilities, at carrying value, pursuant to insurance contracts reported within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances. these liabilities would economically offset a significant portion of the net change in fair value of our financial instruments resulting from a 10% increase in foreign currency exchange rates. sensitivity to foreign currency exchange rates increased by $1.0 billion, or 13%, to $7.9 billion at december 31, 2017 from $6.9 billion at december 31, 2016. this change was primarily due to an increase in the fair value of foreign currency assets which may be backing foreign currency liabilities that are not included in this analysis. the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our portfolio due to a 10% decrease in equity prices by type of asset or liability at: december 31, 2017 notional amount estimated fair value (1) assuming a 10% decrease in equity prices (in millions) assets equity securities $ 2,513 $ (251 ) fvo general account securities $ 2,224 (157 ) embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) $ 144 total assets $ (408 ) liabilities policyholder account balances $ 111,415 $ embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) $ 418 (228 ) total liabilities $ (228 ) derivative instruments interest rate swaps $ 67,912 $ 4,144 $ interest rate floors $ 7,201 $ 92 interest rate caps $ 53,079 $ 76 interest rate futures $ 4,366 $ (2 ) interest rate options $ 12,009 $ 645 interest rate forwards $ 3,549 $ (170 ) interest rate total return swaps $ 1,048 $ 6 synthetic gics $ 11,318 $ foreign currency swaps $ 43,170 $ (304 ) foreign currency forwards $ 15,823 $ (149 ) currency futures $ 846 $ 2 currency options $ 12,531 $ (70 ) credit default swaps $ 13,395 $ 235 equity futures $ 4,005 $ 14 313 equity index options $ 19,886 $ (121 ) 125 equity variance swaps $ 4,661 $ (145 ) 3 equity total return swaps $ 1,117 $ (41 ) 124 total derivative instruments $ 565 net change $ (71 ) __________________ (1) does not necessarily represent those financial instruments solely subject to equity price risk. additionally, separate account assets and liabilities and contractholder-directed unit-linked investments and associated policyholder account balances, which are equity market sensitive, are not included herein as any equity market risk is borne by the contractholder. (2) embedded derivatives are recognized on the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. as of december 31, 2017, sensitivity to a 10% equity market decrease was $71 million. this compares to a $23 million sensitivity to a 10% equity market increase at december 31,2016. the change is primarily due to the application of shock to bhf stock acquired in the separation. 199 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk........................................................ 101 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company must effectively manage, measure and monitor the market risk associated with its invested assets and interest rate sensitive insurance contracts. it has developed an integrated process for managing risk, which it conducts through its corporate risk management department, several asset/liability committees and 101 additional specialists at the business segment level. the company has established and implemented comprehensive policies and procedures at both the corporate and business segment level to minimize the effects of potential market volatility. market risk exposures the company has exposure to market risk through its insurance operations and investment activities. for purposes of this disclosure, "market risk" is defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rates. the company's exposure to interest rate changes results from its significant holdings of fixed maturities, as well as its interest rate sensitive liabilities. the fixed maturities include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds and mortgage-backed securities, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium- and long-term treasury rates. the interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include guaranteed interest contracts and fixed annuities, which have the same interest rate exposure (medium- and long-term treasury rates) as the fixed maturities. the company employs product design, pricing and asset/liability management strategies to reduce the adverse effects of interest rate volatility. product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products. asset/liability management strategies include the use of derivatives, the purchase of securities structured to protect against prepayments, prepayment restrictions and related fees on mortgage loans and consistent monitoring of the pricing of the company's products in order to better match the duration of the assets and the liabilities they support. equity prices. the company's investments in equity securities expose it to changes in equity prices. it manages this risk on an integrated basis with other risks through its asset/liability management strategies. the company also manages equity price risk through industry and issuer diversification and asset allocation techniques. foreign currency exchange rates. the company's exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar results from its holdings in non-u.s. dollar denominated fixed maturity securities and equity securities and through its investments in foreign subsidiaries. the principal currencies which create foreign currency exchange rate risk in the company's investment portfolios are canadian dollars, euros, mexican pesos, chilean pesos and british pounds. the company mitigates the majority of its fixed maturities' foreign currency exchange rate risk through the utilization of foreign currency swaps and forward contracts. through its investments in foreign subsidiaries, the company is primarily exposed to the euro, mexican peso and south korean won. the company has denominated substantially all assets and liabilities of its foreign subsidiaries in their respective local currencies, thereby minimizing its risk to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. risk management corporate risk management. metlife has established several financial and non-financial senior management committees as part of its risk management process. these committees manage capital and risk positions, approve asset/liability management strategies and establish appropriate corporate business standards. metlife also has a separate corporate risk management department, which is responsible for risk throughout metlife and reports directly to metropolitan life's chief actuary. the corporate risk management department's primary responsibilities consist of: - implementing a board of directors-approved corporate risk framework, which outlines the company's approach for managing risk on an enterprise-wide basis; - developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring and monitoring those risks identified in the corporate risk framework; - establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels; - deploying capital on an economic capital basis; and - reporting on a periodic basis to the audit committee of the holding company's board of directors and various financial and non-financial senior management committees. 102 asset/liability management. at metlife, asset/liability management is the responsibility of the general account portfolio management department ("gapm"), the operating business segments and various gapm boards. the gapm boards are comprised of senior officers from the investment department, senior managers from each business segment and the chief actuary. the gapm boards' duties include setting broad asset/ liability management policy and strategy, reviewing and approving target portfolios, establishing investment guidelines and limits, and providing oversight of the portfolio management process. the portfolio managers and asset sector specialists, who have responsibility on a day-to-day basis for risk management of their respective investing activities, implement the goals and objectives established by the gapm boards. the goals of the investment process are to optimize after-tax, risk-adjusted investment income and after-tax, risk-adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are managed on a cash flow and duration basis. the risk management objectives established by the gapm boards stress quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity and investment return. each of metlife's business segments has an asset/liability officer who works with portfolio managers in the investment department to monitor investment, product pricing, hedge strategy and liability management issues. metlife establishes target asset portfolios for each major insurance product, which represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund its liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. these strategies include objectives for effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality. to manage interest rate risk, the company performs periodic projections of asset and liability cash flows to evaluate the potential sensitivity of its securities investments and liabilities to interest rate movements. these projections involve evaluating the potential gain or loss on most of the company's in-force business under various increasing and decreasing interest rate environments. the company has developed models of its in-force business that reflect specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting rates. in addition, these models include asset cash flow projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage prepayments and defaults. new york insurance department regulations require that metlife perform some of these analyses annually as part of the annual proof of the sufficiency of its regulatory reserves to meet adverse interest rate scenarios. hedging activities. metlife's risk management strategies incorporate the use of various interest rate derivatives that are used to adjust the overall duration and cash flow profile of its invested asset portfolios to better match the duration and cash flow profile of its liabilities to reduce interest rate risk. such instruments include financial futures, financial forwards, interest rate and credit default swaps, floors, options, written covered calls and caps. metlife also uses foreign currency swaps and foreign currency forwards to hedge its foreign currency denominated fixed income investments. economic capital. beginning in 2003, the company has changed its methodology of allocating capital from risk based capital to economic capital. in 2002 and in prior years, the company's business segments' allocated equity was primarily based on risk based equity, an internally developed formula based on applying a multiple to the naic statutory risk based capital and includes certain gaap accounting adjustments. economic capital is an internally developed risk capital model, the purpose of which is to measure the risk in the business and to provide a basis upon which capital is deployed. the economic capital model accounts for the unique and specific nature of the risks inherent in metlife's businesses. this is in contrast to the standardized regulatory risk based capital formula which is not as refined in its risk calculations with respect to the nuances of different companies' businesses. this change in methodology will be applied prospectively and will impact the level of net investment income and net income of each of the company's business segments. a portion of net investment income is credited to the segments based on the level of allocated equity. this methodology change of allocating equity will not impact the company's consolidated net investment income or net income. 103 risk measurement; sensitivity analysis the company measures market risk related to its holdings of invested assets and other financial instruments, including certain market risk sensitive insurance contracts ("other financial instruments"), based on changes in interest rates, equity prices and currency exchange rates, utilizing a sensitivity analysis. this analysis estimates the potential changes in fair value, cash flows and earnings based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, equity prices and currency exchange rates. the company believes that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the near-term. in performing this analysis, the company used market rates at december 31, 2002 to re-price its invested assets and other financial instruments. the sensitivity analysis separately calculated each of metlife's market risk exposures (interest rate, equity price and foreign currency exchange rate) related to its non-trading invested assets and other financial instruments. the company does not maintain a trading portfolio. the sensitivity analysis performed included the market risk sensitive holdings described above. the company modeled the impact of changes in market rates and prices on the fair values of its invested assets, earnings and cash flows as follows: fair values. the company bases its potential change in fair values on an immediate change (increase or decrease) in: - the net present values of its interest rate sensitive exposures resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates; - the u.s. dollar equivalent balances of the company's currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in currency exchange rates; and - the market value of its equity positions due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity prices. earnings and cash flows. metlife calculates the potential change in earnings and cash flows on the change in its earnings and cash flows over a one-year period based on an immediate 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and equity prices. the following factors were incorporated into the earnings and cash flows sensitivity analyses: - the reinvestment of fixed maturity securities; - the reinvestment of payments and prepayments of principal related to mortgage-backed securities; - the re-estimation of prepayment rates on mortgage-backed securities for each 10% change (increase or decrease) in the interest rates; and - the expected turnover (sales) of fixed maturities and equity securities, including the reinvestment of the resulting proceeds. the sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as predictive of the company's future financial performance. the company cannot assure that its actual losses in any particular year will not exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. limitations related to this sensitivity analysis include: - the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgages; - the analysis excludes other significant real estate holdings and liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts; and - the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains unchanged throughout the year. accordingly, the company uses such models as tools and not substitutes for the experience and judgment of its corporate risk and asset/liability management personnel. based on its analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and prices, metlife has determined that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the fair value of its interest 104 rate sensitive invested assets. the equity and foreign currency portfolios do not expose the company to material market risk. the table below illustrates the potential loss in fair value of the company's interest rate sensitive financial instruments at december 31, 2002 and 2001. in addition, the potential loss with respect to the fair value of currency exchange rates and the company's equity price sensitive positions at december 31, 2002 and 2001 is set forth in the table below. the potential loss in fair value for each market risk exposure of the company's portfolio, all of which is non-trading, for the periods indicated was: december 31, ---------------------- 2002 2001 --------- --------- (dollars in millions) interest rate risk.......................................... $2,710 $3,430 equity price risk........................................... $ 120 $ 228 foreign currency exchange rate risk......................... $ 529 $ 426 the change in potential loss in fair value related to market risk exposure between december 31, 2002 and 2001 was primarily attributable to a shift in the yield curve. 105quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk........................................................ 107 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company must effectively manage, measure and monitor the market risk associated with its invested assets and interest rate sensitive insurance contracts. it has developed an integrated process for managing risk, which it conducts through its corporate risk management department, several asset/liability committees and additional specialists at the business segment level. the company has established and implemented comprehensive policies and procedures at both the corporate and business segment level to minimize the effects of potential market volatility. 107 market risk exposures the company has exposure to market risk through its insurance operations and investment activities. for purposes of this disclosure, "market risk" is defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rates. the company's exposure to interest rate changes results from its significant holdings of fixed maturities, as well as its interest rate sensitive liabilities. the fixed maturities include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds and mortgage-backed securities, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium and long-term treasury rates. the interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include guaranteed interest contracts and fixed annuities, which have the same interest rate exposure (medium- and long-term treasury rates) as the fixed maturities. the company employs product design, pricing and asset/liability management strategies to reduce the adverse effects of interest rate volatility. product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products. asset/liability management strategies include the use of derivatives, the purchase of securities structured to protect against prepayments, prepayment restrictions and related fees on mortgage loans and consistent monitoring of the pricing of the company's products in order to better match the duration of the assets and the liabilities they support. equity prices. the company's investments in equity securities expose it to changes in equity prices. it manages this risk on an integrated basis with other risks through its asset/liability management strategies. the company also manages equity price risk through industry and issuer diversification and asset allocation techniques. foreign currency exchange rates. the company's exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar results from its holdings in non-u.s. dollar denominated fixed maturity securities and equity securities and through its investments in foreign subsidiaries. the principal currencies which create foreign currency exchange rate risk in the company's investment portfolios are canadian dollars, mexican pesos, chilean pesos and british pounds. the company mitigates the majority of its fixed maturities' foreign currency exchange rate risk through the utilization of foreign currency swaps and forward contracts. through its investments in foreign subsidiaries, the company is primarily exposed to the mexican peso and south korean won. the company has denominated substantially all assets and liabilities of its foreign subsidiaries in their respective local currencies, thereby minimizing its risk to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. risk management corporate risk management. metlife has established several financial and non-financial senior management committees as part of its risk management process. these committees manage capital and risk positions, approve asset/liability management strategies and establish appropriate corporate business standards. metlife also has a separate corporate risk management department, which is responsible for risk throughout metlife and reports to metlife's chief financial officer. the corporate risk management department's primary responsibilities consist of: - implementing a board of directors-approved corporate risk framework, which outlines the company's approach for managing risk on an enterprise-wide basis; - developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring and monitoring those risks identified in the corporate risk framework; - establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels; - deploying capital on an economic capital basis; and - reporting on a periodic basis to the governance committee of the holding company's board of directors and various financial and non-financial senior management committees. 108 asset/liability management. at metlife, asset/liability management is the responsibility of the general account portfolio management department ("gapm"), the operating business segments and various gapm boards. the gapm boards are comprised of senior officers from the investment department, senior managers from each business segment and the executive vice-president in charge of risk management at metlife. the gapm boards' duties include setting broad asset/liability management policy and strategy, reviewing and approving target portfolios, establishing investment guidelines and limits, and providing oversight of the portfolio management process. the portfolio managers and asset sector specialists, who have responsibility on a day-to-day basis for risk management of their respective investing activities, implement the goals and objectives established by the gapm boards. the goals of the investment process are to optimize after-tax, risk-adjusted investment income and after-tax, risk-adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are managed on a cash flow and duration basis. the risk management objectives established by the gapm boards stress quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity and investment return. each of metlife's business segments has an asset/liability officer who works with portfolio managers in the investment department to monitor investment, product pricing, hedge strategy and liability management issues. metlife establishes target asset portfolios for each major insurance product, which represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund its liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. these strategies include objectives for effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality. to manage interest rate risk, the company performs periodic projections of asset and liability cash flows to evaluate the potential sensitivity of its securities investments and liabilities to interest rate movements. these projections involve evaluating the potential gain or loss on most of the company's in-force business under various increasing and decreasing interest rate environments. the company has developed models of its in-force business that reflect specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting rates. in addition, these models include asset cash flow projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage prepayments and defaults. new york insurance department regulations require that metlife perform some of these analyses annually as part of the annual proof of the sufficiency of its regulatory reserves to meet adverse interest rate scenarios. hedging activities. metlife's risk management strategies incorporate the use of various interest rate derivatives that are used to adjust the overall duration and cash flow profile of its invested asset portfolios to better match the duration and cash flow profile of its liabilities to reduce interest rate risk. such instruments include financial futures, financial forwards, interest rate and credit default swaps, floors, options, written covered calls and caps. metlife also uses foreign currency swaps and foreign currency forwards to hedge its foreign currency denominated fixed income investments. economic capital. beginning in 2003, the company changed its methodology of allocating capital to its business segments from rbc to economic capital. prior to 2003, the company's business segments' allocated equity was primarily based on rbc, an internally developed formula based on applying a multiple to the naic statutory risk-based capital and includes certain gaap accounting adjustments. economic capital is an internally developed risk capital model, the purpose of which is to measure the risk in the business and to provide a basis upon which capital is deployed. the economic capital model accounts for the unique and specific nature of the risks inherent in metlife's businesses. this is in contrast to the standardized regulatory rbc formula, which is not as refined in its risk calculations with respect to the nuances of the company's businesses. this change in methodology is being applied prospectively. this change has and will continue to impact the level of net investment income and net income of each of the company's business segments. a portion of net investment income is credited to the segments based on the level of allocated equity. this change in methodology of allocating equity does not impact the company's consolidated net investment income or net income. 109 risk measurement; sensitivity analysis the company measures market risk related to its holdings of invested assets and other financial instruments, including certain market risk sensitive insurance contracts ("other financial instruments"), based on changes in interest rates, equity prices and currency exchange rates, utilizing a sensitivity analysis. this analysis estimates the potential changes in fair value, cash flows and earnings based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, equity prices and currency exchange rates. the company believes that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the near-term. in performing this analysis, the company used market rates at december 31, 2003 to re-price its invested assets and other financial instruments. the sensitivity analysis separately calculated each of metlife's market risk exposures (interest rate, equity price and foreign currency exchange rate) related to its non-trading invested assets and other financial instruments. the company does not maintain a trading portfolio. the sensitivity analysis performed included the market risk sensitive holdings described above. the company modeled the impact of changes in market rates and prices on the fair values of its invested assets, earnings and cash flows as follows: fair values. the company bases its potential change in fair values on an immediate change (increase or decrease) in: - the net present values of its interest rate sensitive exposures resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates; - the u.s. dollar equivalent balances of the company's currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in currency exchange rates; and - the market value of its equity positions due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity prices. earnings and cash flows. metlife calculates the potential change in earnings and cash flows on the change in its earnings and cash flows over a one-year period based on an immediate 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and equity prices. the following factors were incorporated into the earnings and cash flows sensitivity analyses: - the reinvestment of fixed maturity securities; - the reinvestment of payments and prepayments of principal related to mortgage-backed securities; - the re-estimation of prepayment rates on mortgage-backed securities for each 10% change (increase or decrease) in the interest rates; and - the expected turnover (sales) of fixed maturities and equity securities, including the reinvestment of the resulting proceeds. the sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as predictive of the company's future financial performance. the company cannot assure that its actual losses in any particular year will not exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. limitations related to this sensitivity analysis include: - the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgages; - the analysis excludes other significant real estate holdings and liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts; and - the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains unchanged throughout the year. accordingly, the company uses such models as tools and not substitutes for the experience and judgment of its corporate risk and asset/liability management personnel. based on its analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and prices, metlife has determined that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the fair value of its interest 110 rate sensitive invested assets. the equity and foreign currency portfolios do not expose the company to material market risk. the table below illustrates the potential loss in fair value of the company's interest rate sensitive financial instruments at december 31, 2003 and 2002. in addition, the potential loss with respect to the fair value of currency exchange rates and the company's equity price sensitive positions at december 31, 2003 and 2002 is set forth in the table below. the potential loss in fair value for each market risk exposure of the company's portfolio, all of which is non-trading, for the periods indicated was: december 31, ---------------------- 2003 2002 --------- --------- (dollars in millions) interest rate risk.......................................... $3,617 $2,710 equity price risk........................................... $ 155 $ 120 foreign currency exchange rate risk......................... $ 619 $ 529 the change in potential loss in fair value related to market risk exposure between december 31, 2003 and 2002 was primarily attributable to a shift in the yield curve. 111quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk........................................................ 98 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company must effectively manage, measure and monitor the market risk associated with its invested assets and interest rate sensitive insurance contracts. it has developed an integrated process for managing risk, which it conducts through its corporate risk management department, asset/liability management committees ("a/lm committees") and additional specialists at the business segment level. the company has established and implemented comprehensive policies and procedures at both the corporate and business segment level to minimize the effects of potential market volatility. market risk exposures the company has exposure to market risk through its insurance operations and investment activities. for purposes of this disclosure, "market risk" is defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rates. the company's exposure to interest rate changes results from its significant holdings of fixed maturities, as well as its interest rate sensitive liabilities. the fixed maturities include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds and mortgage-backed securities, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium- and long-term treasury rates. the interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include guaranteed interest contracts and fixed annuities, which have the same type of interest rate exposure (medium- and long-term treasury rates) as the fixed maturities. the company employs product design, pricing and asset/liability management strategies to reduce the adverse effects of interest rate volatility. product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products. asset/liability management strategies include the use of derivatives, the purchase of securities structured to protect against prepayments, prepayment restrictions and related fees on mortgage loans and consistent monitoring of the pricing of the company's products in order to better match the duration of the assets and the liabilities they support. equity prices. the company's investments in equity securities expose it to changes in equity prices, as do certain liabilities which involve long term guarantees on equity performance. it manages this risk on an integrated basis with other risks through its asset/liability management strategies. the company also manages equity price risk through industry and issuer diversification, asset allocation techniques and the use of derivatives. foreign currency exchange rates. the company's exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar results from its holdings in non-u.s. dollar denominated fixed maturity securities, equity securities and liabilities, as well as through its investments in foreign subsidiaries. the principal currencies which create foreign currency exchange rate risk in the company's investment portfolios are the euro, canadian dollars and british pounds. the company mitigates the majority of its fixed maturities' foreign currency exchange rate risk through the utilization of foreign currency swaps and forward contracts. through its investments in foreign subsidiaries, the company is primarily exposed to the mexican peso, south korean won, chilean peso and taiwanese dollar. the company has matched substantially all of its foreign currency liabilities in its foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency assets, thereby reducing its risk to currency exchange rate fluctuation. in some countries, local surplus is held entirely or in part in u.s. dollar assets which further minimizes exposure to exchange rate fluctuation risk. selectively, the company uses u.s. dollar assets to support certain long duration foreign currency liabilities. risk management corporate risk management. metlife has established several financial and non-financial senior management committees as part of its risk management process. these committees manage capital and risk positions, approve asset/liability management strategies and establish appropriate corporate business standards. 98 metlife also has a separate corporate risk management department, which is responsible for risk throughout metlife and reports to metlife's chief financial officer. the corporate risk management department's primary responsibilities consist of: - implementing a board of directors-approved corporate risk framework, which outlines the company's approach for managing risk on an enterprise-wide basis; - developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring and monitoring those risks identified in the corporate risk framework; - establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels; - deploying capital on an economic capital basis; and - reporting on a periodic basis to the governance committee of the holding company's board of directors and various financial and non-financial senior management committees. asset/liability management. the company actively manages its assets using an approach that balances quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity and investment return. the goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income taxes, risk-adjusted investment income and risk-adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are managed on a cash flow and duration basis. the asset/liability management process is the shared responsibility of the portfolio management unit, the business finance asset/liability management unit, and the operating business segments under the supervision of the various product line specific a/lm committees. the a/lm committees' duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios on a periodic basis, establishing investment guidelines and limits and providing oversight of the asset/liability management process. the portfolio managers and asset sector specialists, who have responsibility on a day-to-day basis for risk management of their respective investing activities, implement the goals and objectives established by the a/lm committees. each of metlife's business segments has an asset/liability officer who works with portfolio managers in the investment department to monitor investment, product pricing, hedge strategy and liability management issues. metlife establishes target asset portfolios for each major insurance product, which represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund its liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. these strategies include objectives for effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality. to manage interest rate risk, the company performs periodic projections of asset and liability cash flows to evaluate the potential sensitivity of its securities investments and liabilities to interest rate movements. these projections involve evaluating the potential gain or loss on most of the company's in-force business under various increasing and decreasing interest rate environments. new york state department of insurance regulations require that metlife perform some of these analyses annually as part of metlife's review of the sufficiency of its regulatory reserves. for several of its legal entities, the company maintains segmented operating and surplus asset portfolios for the purpose of asset/liability management and the allocation of investment income to product lines. for each segment, invested assets greater than or equal to the gaap liabilities less the dac asset and any non-invested assets allocated to the segment are maintained, with any excess swept to the surplus segment. the operating segments may reflect differences in legal entity, statutory line of business and any product market characteristic which may drive a distinct investment strategy with respect to duration, liquidity or credit quality of the invested assets. certain smaller entities make use of unsegmented general accounts for which the investment strategy reflects the aggregate characteristics of liabilities in those entities. the company measures relative sensitivities of the value of its assets and liabilities to changes in key assumptions utilizing company models. these models reflect specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting rates. in addition, these models include asset cash flow projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage prepayments and defaults. common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, are also used to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and liability values to changes in interest rates. in computing the duration of liabilities, 99 consideration is given to all policyholder guarantees and to how the company intends to set indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or dividends. each operating asset segment has a duration constraint based on the liability duration and the investment objectives of that portfolio. where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity of available assets, as is the case with certain retirement and non-medical health products, the company may support such liabilities with equity investments or curve mismatch strategies. hedging activities. metlife's risk management strategies incorporate the use of various interest rate derivatives to adjust the overall duration and cash flow profile of its invested asset portfolios to better match the duration and cash flow profile of its liabilities to reduce interest rate risk. such instruments include financial futures, financial forwards, interest rate and credit default swaps, caps, floors and options. metlife also uses foreign currency swaps and foreign currency forwards to hedge its foreign currency denominated fixed income investments. in 2004, metlife initiated a hedging strategy for certain equity price risks within its liabilities using equity futures and options. economic capital. beginning in 2003, the company changed its methodology of allocating capital to its business segments from risk-based capital ("rbc") to economic capital. prior to 2003, the company's business segments' allocated equity was primarily based on rbc, an internally developed formula based on applying a multiple to the naic statutory risk-based capital and included certain adjustments in accordance with gaap. economic capital is an internally developed risk capital model, the purpose of which is to measure the risk in the business and to provide a basis upon which capital is deployed. the economic capital model accounts for the unique and specific nature of the risks inherent in metlife's businesses. this is in contrast to the standardized regulatory rbc formula, which is not as refined in its risk calculations with respect to the nuances of the company's businesses. this change in methodology is being applied prospectively. this change has and will continue to impact the level of net investment income and net income of each of the company's business segments. a portion of net investment income is credited to the segments based on the level of allocated equity. this change in methodology of allocating equity does not impact the company's consolidated net investment income or net income. risk measurement; sensitivity analysis the company measures market risk related to its holdings of invested assets and other financial instruments, including certain market risk sensitive insurance contracts, based on changes in interest rates, equity prices and currency exchange rates, utilizing a sensitivity analysis. this analysis estimates the potential changes in fair value, cash flows and earnings based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, equity prices and currency exchange rates. the company believes that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the near-term. in performing this analysis, the company used market rates at december 31, 2004 to re-price its invested assets and other financial instruments. the sensitivity analysis separately calculated each of metlife's market risk exposures (interest rate, equity price and foreign currency exchange rate) related to its non-trading invested assets and other financial instruments. the company does not maintain a trading portfolio. the sensitivity analysis performed included the market risk sensitive holdings described above. the company modeled the impact of changes in market rates and prices on the fair values of its invested assets, earnings and cash flows as follows: fair values. the company bases its potential change in fair values on an immediate change (increase or decrease) in: - the net present values of its interest rate sensitive exposures resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates; - the u.s. dollar equivalent balances of the company's currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in currency exchange rates; and - the market value of its equity positions due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity prices. 100 earnings and cash flows. metlife calculates the potential change in earnings and cash flows on the change in its earnings and cash flows over a one-year period based on an immediate 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and equity prices. the following factors were incorporated into the earnings and cash flows sensitivity analyses: - the reinvestment of fixed maturity securities; - the reinvestment of payments and prepayments of principal related to mortgage-backed securities; - the re-estimation of prepayment rates on mortgage-backed securities for each 10% change (increase or decrease) in the interest rates; and - the expected turnover (sales) of fixed maturities and equity securities, including the reinvestment of the resulting proceeds. the sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as predictive of the company's future financial performance. the company cannot assure that its actual losses in any particular year will not exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. limitations related to this sensitivity analysis include: - the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgages; - for derivatives which qualify as hedges, the impact on reported earnings may be materially different from the change in market values; - the analysis excludes other significant real estate holdings and liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts; and - the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains unchanged throughout the year. accordingly, the company uses such models as tools and not substitutes for the experience and judgment of its corporate risk and asset/liability management personnel. based on its analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and prices, metlife has determined that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the fair value of its interest rate sensitive invested assets. the equity and foreign currency portfolios do not expose the company to material market risk. the table below illustrates the potential loss in fair value of the company's interest rate sensitive financial instruments at december 31, 2004. in addition, the potential loss with respect to the fair value of currency exchange rates and the company's equity price sensitive positions at december 31, 2004 is set forth in the table below. the potential loss in fair value for each market risk exposure of the company's portfolio, all of which is non-trading, as of the period indicated was: december 31, 2004 --------------------- (dollars in millions) interest rate risk.......................................... $3,650 equity price risk........................................... $ 167 foreign currency exchange rate risk......................... $ 601 101 the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in fair value of the company's interest sensitive financial instruments at december 31, 2004 by type of asset or liability. as of december 31, 2004 ------------------------------------ assuming a 10% increase notional in the yield amount fair value curve -------- ---------- ------------ (dollars in millions) assets fixed maturities..................................... $ -- $176,763 $(3,651) mortgage loans on real estate........................ -- 33,902 (534) equity securities.................................... -- 2,188 -- short-term investments............................... -- 2,663 6 cash and cash equivalents............................ -- 4,051 -- policy loans......................................... -- 8,899 (290) mortgage loan commitments............................ 1,189 4 (5) ------- total assets.................................... $(4,474) liabilities policyholder account balances........................ $ -- $ 69,688 $ 450 short-term debt...................................... -- 1,445 -- long-term debt....................................... -- 7,818 264 shares subject to mandatory redemption............... $ -- $ 365 $ 1 payable under securities loaned transactions......... -- 28,678 -- ------- total liabilities............................... $ 715 other derivative instruments (designated hedges or otherwise) swaps.............................................. $22,792 $ (884) $ 95 futures............................................ 611 (13) 8 forwards........................................... 1,339 (52) -- options............................................ 17,514 80 6 ------- total other..................................... $ 109 ------- net change........................................... $(3,650) ======= in addition to the analysis discussed above, the company also performs an analysis of the sensitivity of its insurance and interest sensitive liabilities to changes in interest rates as a part of its asset liability management program. as of december 31, 2004, a hypothetical instantaneous 10% decrease in interest rates applied to the company's insurance and interest sensitive liabilities and their associated operating asset portfolios would reduce the fair value of equity by $227 million. management does not expect that this sensitivity would produce a liquidity strain on the company. 102risk factors................................................ 27 risk factors changes in market interest rates may significantly affect our profitability some of our products, principally traditional whole life insurance, fixed annuities and guaranteed interest contracts, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our "spread," or the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts in our general account and the rate of return we are able to earn on general account investments intended to support obligations under the contracts. our spread is a key component of our net income. as interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, reducing our investment margin. moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the fixed-income securities, commercial mortgages and mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio with greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates, which 27 exacerbates this risk. lowering interest crediting rates can help offset decreases in investment margins on some products. however, our ability to lower these rates could be limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. as a result, our spread could decrease or potentially become negative. our expectation for future spreads is an important component in the amortization of dac and significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period. in addition, during periods of declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be relatively more attractive investments to consumers, resulting in increased premium payments on products with flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans and increased persistency, or a higher percentage of insurance policies remaining in force from year to year, during a period when our new investments carry lower returns. a decline in market interest rates could also reduce our return on investments that do not support particular policy obligations. accordingly, declining interest rates may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows and significantly reduce our profitability. increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect our profitability. in periods of rapidly increasing interest rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, the assets in our general account with higher yielding assets needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep interest sensitive products competitive. we therefore may have to accept a lower spread and, thus, lower profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of existing contracts and related assets. in addition, policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals may tend to increase as policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns as interest rates rise. this process may result in cash outflows requiring that we sell invested assets at a time when the prices of those assets are adversely affected by the increase in market interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses. unanticipated withdrawals and terminations may cause us to accelerate the amortization of dac, which would increase our current expenses and reduce net income. an increase in market interest rates could also have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the fair values of the fixed income securities that comprise a substantial majority of our investment portfolio. industry trends could adversely affect the profitability of our businesses our business segments continue to be influenced by a variety of trends that affect the insurance industry. see "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations -- results of operations -- industry trends." financial environment. the current financial environment presents a challenge for the life insurance industry. a low general level of short-term and long-term interest rates can have a negative impact on the demand for and the profitability of spread-based products such as fixed annuities, guaranteed interest contracts and universal life insurance. in addition, continued low interest rates could put pressure on interest spreads on existing blocks of business as declining investment portfolio yields draw closer to minimum crediting rate guarantees on certain products. the compression of the yields between spread-based products and interest rates will be a concern until new money rates on corporate bonds are higher than overall life insurer investment portfolio yields. recent volatile equity market performance has also presented challenges for life insurers, as fee revenue from variable annuities and pension products is tied to separate account balances, which reflect equity market performance. also, variable annuity product demand often mirrors consumer demand for equity market investments. see "-- changes in market interest rates may significantly affect our profitability." competitive pressures. the life insurance industry is becoming increasingly competitive. the product development and product life-cycles have shortened in many product segments, leading to more intense competition with respect to product features. larger companies have the ability to invest in brand equity, product development and risk management, which are among the fundamentals for sustained profitable growth in the life insurance industry. in addition, several of the industry's products can be quite homogeneous and subject to intense price competition, and sufficient scale, financial strength and flexibility are becoming prerequisites for sustainable growth in the life insurance industry. larger market participants tend to have the capacity to invest in additional distribution capability and the information technology needed to offer the 28 superior customer service demanded by an increasingly sophisticated industry client base. see "-- competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability" and "business -- competition." regulatory changes. the life insurance industry is regulated at the state level, with some products also subject to federal regulation. as life insurers introduce new and often more complex products, regulators refine capital requirements and introduce new reserving standards for the life insurance industry. regulation recently adopted or currently under review can potentially impact the reserve and capital requirements for several of the industry's products. in addition, regulators have undertaken market and sales practices reviews of several markets or products, including equity-indexed annuities, variable annuities and group products. see "-- our insurance businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce profitability and limit growth" and "business -- regulation -- insurance regulation." pension plans. recently, a number of corporations have announced that they have already frozen or intend to freeze their traditional pension plans and, instead, offer their employees a 401(k) program. this transition from a defined benefit to a defined contribution program may adversely affect our annuities business, as these traditional pension plans historically have been large customers of such products. a decline in equity markets or an increase in volatility in equity markets may adversely affect sales of our investment products and our profitability significant downturns and volatility in equity markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in three principal ways. first, market downturns and volatility may discourage purchases of separate account products, such as variable annuities, variable life insurance and mutual funds that have returns linked to the performance of the equity markets and may cause some of our existing customers to withdraw cash values or reduce investments in those products. second, downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a material adverse effect on the revenues and returns from our savings and investment products and services. because these products and services depend on fees related primarily to the value of assets under management, a decline in the equity markets could reduce our revenues by reducing the value of the investment assets we manage. the retail annuity business in particular is highly sensitive to equity markets, and a sustained weakness in the markets will decrease revenues and earnings in variable annuity products. third, we provide certain guarantees within some of our products that protect policyholders against significant downturns in the equity markets. for example, we offer variable annuity products with guaranteed features, such as minimum death and withdrawal benefits. these guarantees may be more costly than expected in volatile or declining equity market conditions, causing us to increase liabilities for future policy benefits, negatively affecting net income. the performance of our investments depends on conditions that are outside our control, and our net investment income can vary from period to period the performance of our investment portfolio depends in part upon the level of and changes in interest rates, equity prices, real estate values, the performance of the economy in general, the performance of the specific obligors included in our portfolio and other factors that are beyond our control. changes in these factors can affect our net investment income in any period, and such changes can be substantial. we invest a portion of our invested assets in pooled investment funds that make private equity investments. the amount and timing of income from such investment funds tend to be uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying private equity investments, which can be difficult to predict, as well as the timing of distributions from the funds, which depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds' schedules for making distributions and their needs for cash. as a result, the amount of income that we record from these investments can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. 29 competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability our business segments are subject to intense competition. we believe that this competition is based on a number of factors, including service, product features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, ebusiness capabilities and name recognition. we compete with a large number of other insurers, as well as non-insurance financial services companies, such as banks, broker/dealers and asset managers, for individual consumers, employers and other group customers and agents and other distributors of insurance and investment products. some of these companies offer a broader array of products, have more competitive pricing or, with respect to other insurers, have higher claims paying ability ratings. some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete. national banks, which may sell annuity products of life insurers in some circumstances, also have pre-existing customer bases for financial services products. many of our insurance products, particularly those offered by our institutional segment, are underwritten annually, and, accordingly, there is a risk that group purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors rather than renewing coverage with us. the effect of competition may, as a result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell products in the future. in addition, the investment management and securities brokerage businesses have relatively few barriers to entry and continually attract new entrants. many of our competitors in these businesses offer a broader array of investment products and services and are better known than us as sellers of annuities and other investment products. see "business-competition." we may be unable to attract and retain sales representatives for our products we must attract and retain productive sales representatives to sell our insurance, annuities and investment products. strong competition exists among insurers for sales representatives with demonstrated ability. we compete with other insurers for sales representatives primarily on the basis of our financial position, support services and compensation and product features. we continue to undertake several initiatives to grow our career agency force while continuing to enhance the efficiency and production of our existing sales force. we cannot provide assurance that these initiatives will succeed in attracting and retaining new agents. sales of individual insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents. see "business -- competition." differences between actual claims experience and underwriting and reserving assumptions may adversely affect our financial results our earnings significantly depend upon the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in setting prices for our products and establishing liabilities for future policy benefits and claims. our liabilities for future policy benefits and claims are established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims. for life insurance and annuity products, we calculate these liabilities based on many assumptions and estimates, including estimated premiums to be received over the assumed life of the policy, the timing of the event covered by the insurance policy, the amount of benefits or claims to be paid and the investment returns on the assets we purchase with the premiums we receive. we establish liabilities for property and casualty claims and benefits based on assumptions and estimates of damages and liabilities incurred. to the extent that actual claims experience is less favorable than the underlying assumptions we used in establishing such liabilities, we could be required to increase our liabilities. due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of liabilities for future policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely the amounts which we will ultimately pay to settle our liabilities. such amounts may vary from the estimated amounts, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future. we evaluate our liabilities periodically based on changes in the assumptions used to establish the liabilities, as well as our actual experience. we charge or credit changes in our liabilities to expenses in the period the liabilities are established or re-estimated. if the liabilities originally established for future benefit payments prove 30 inadequate, we must increase them. such increases could affect earnings negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events. we have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not be fully effective. many of our methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. as a result, these methods may not predict future exposures, which could be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate. other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. this information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. see "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk." catastrophes may adversely impact liabilities for policyholder claims and reinsurance availability our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that causes a large number of deaths. significant influenza pandemics have occurred three times in the last century, but neither the likelihood, timing, nor the severity of a future pandemic can be predicted. the effectiveness of external parties, including governmental and non-governmental organizations, in combating the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have a material impact on the losses experienced by us. in our group insurance operations, a localized event that affects the workplace of one or more of our group insurance customers could cause a significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims. these events could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any period and, depending on their severity, could also materially and adversely affect our financial condition. see "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations -- impact of hurricanes" and note 12 of notes to consolidated financial statements. our auto & home business has experienced, and will likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses that may have a material adverse impact on the business, results of operations and financial condition of the auto & home segment. although auto & home makes every effort to minimize our exposure to catastrophic risks through volatility management and reinsurance programs, these efforts may not succeed. catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards), fires, and man-made events such as terrorist attacks. historically, substantially all of our catastrophe-related claims have related to homeowners coverages. however, catastrophes may also affect other auto & home coverages. due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence, timing and severity of catastrophes. hurricanes and earthquakes are of particular note for our homeowners coverages. areas of major hurricane exposure include coastal sections of the northeastern united states (including long island and the connecticut, rhode island and massachusetts shorelines), the gulf coast (including mississippi and louisiana) and florida. we also have some earthquake exposure, primarily along the new madrid fault line in the central united states and in the pacific northwest. losses incurred by auto & home from all catastrophes, net of reinsurance but before taxes, were $286 million, $189 million and $77 million in 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. the 2005 number includes loss and loss adjustment expenses and reinstatement and additional reinsurance-related premiums which were caused by the magnitude of reinsurance recoverables. the extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however, pandemics, hurricanes, earthquakes and man-made catastrophes may produce significant damage in larger areas, especially those that are heavily populated. claims resulting from natural or man- 31 made catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition. also, catastrophic events could harm the financial condition of our reinsurers and thereby increase the probability of default on reinsurance recoveries. our ability to write new business could also be affected. it is possible that increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured property and the effects of inflation could increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we establish liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. we cannot be certain that the liabilities we have established will be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities. from time to time, states have passed legislation that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage risk, such as legislation restricting an insurer's ability to withdraw from catastrophe-prone areas. while we attempt to limit our exposure to acceptable levels, subject to restrictions imposed by insurance regulatory authorities, a catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our ability to manage this risk and the profitability of our property and casualty and life insurance businesses depends in part on our ability to obtain catastrophe reinsurance, which may not be available at commercially acceptable rates in the future. see "-- reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses." a downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could result in a loss of business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations financial strength ratings, which various nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ("nrsros") publish as indicators of an insurance company's ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations, are important to maintaining public confidence in our products, our ability to market our products and our competitive position. see "business -- company ratings -- insurer financial strength ratings." following the announcement of the acquisition of travelers, the financial strength rating of each of tic and its subsidiary, the travelers life and annuity company ("tlac"), was lowered one notch by certain rating agencies. we believe the negative impact of these downgrades on travelers' financial results was immaterial. however, further downgrades in these or our other insurance subsidiaries' financial strength ratings, or an announced potential for a downgrade, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including: - reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other investment products; - adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and independent sales intermediaries; - materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders; - requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and services to remain competitive; - adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices or at all; and - adversely affecting our relationships with credit counterparties. in addition to the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries, nrsros also publish credit ratings for metlife and several of our subsidiaries. credit ratings are indicators of a debt issuer's ability to meet the terms of the debt obligations in a timely manner. see "business -- company ratings -- credit ratings." a downgrade in our credit ratings could increase the cost of borrowing, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. following the announcement of the acquisition of travelers, several nrsros took a number of rating actions, the net result of which is that various credit and financial strength ratings have a "negative" outlook, rather than the former "stable" outlook. we do not expect that all ratings will return to "stable" until such time as we have established, to the sole satisfaction of each agency, clear evidence of the successful integration 32 of the travelers businesses and that we are reducing our financial leverage to levels closer to that which existed prior to the acquisition. as a result of the additional securities that we issued to finance a portion of the purchase price for the acquisition, our leverage ratio increased moderately. see note 2 of notes to consolidated financial statements. while we expect our leverage ratio to decrease over time as a result of the accumulation of retained earnings, there is no assurance that it will decrease as we expect. the increased leverage will reduce our flexibility in managing our capital. rating agencies assign ratings based upon several factors, some of which relate to general economic conditions and circumstances outside of our control. in addition, rating agencies may employ different models and formulas to assess our financial strength and creditworthiness, and may alter these models from time to time at their discretion. we cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may be required to take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. if the travelers business does not perform well, we may incur significant charges to write down the goodwill established in the acquisition as a result of the acquisition of travelers, we established goodwill of $4,177 million. under statement of financial accounting standards ("sfas") no. 142, goodwill and other intangible assets, we must test goodwill annually for impairment and, if we determine that the goodwill has been impaired, we must write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to income. if the travelers business does not perform well, it may impact the goodwill impairment test which could result in a goodwill write down. such write downs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. defaults, downgrades or other events impairing the value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio may reduce our earnings we are subject to the risk that the issuers of the fixed maturity securities we own may default on principal and interest payments they owe us. at december 31, 2005, the fixed maturity securities of $230 billion in our investment portfolio represented 75.2% of our total cash and invested assets. the occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance or other events that adversely affect the issuers of these securities could cause the value of our fixed maturities portfolio and our net earnings to decline and the default rate of the fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio to increase. a ratings downgrade affecting particular issuers or securities could also have a similar effect. with recent downgrades in the automotive sector, as well as economic uncertainty and increasing interest rates, credit quality of issuers could be adversely affected. any event reducing the value of these securities other than on a temporary basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. defaults on our mortgage and consumer loans may adversely affect our profitability our mortgage and consumer loan investments face default risk. our mortgage and consumer loans are principally collateralized by commercial, agricultural and residential properties, as well as automobiles. at december 31, 2005, our mortgage and consumer loan investments of $37 billion represented 12.2% of our total cash and invested assets. at december 31, 2005, loans that were either delinquent or in the process of foreclosure totaled less than 1% of our mortgage and consumer loan investments. the performance of our mortgage and consumer loan investments, however, may fluctuate in the future. in addition, substantially all of our mortgage loan investments have balloon payment maturities. an increase in the default rate of our mortgage and consumer loan investments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. some of our investments are relatively illiquid our investments in privately placed fixed maturity securities, mortgage and consumer loans, equity real estate, including real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests, are relatively illiquid. these 33 asset classes represented 24.9% of the carrying value of our total cash and invested assets as of december 31, 2005. if we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal cash requirements, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize, or both. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and foreign securities markets could negatively affect our profitability we are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar resulting from our holdings of non-u.s. dollar denominated securities and investments in foreign subsidiaries. if the currencies of the non-u.s. dollar denominated securities we hold in our investment portfolios decline against the u.s. dollar, our investment returns, and thus our profitability, may be adversely affected. although we use foreign currency swaps and forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk, we can not provide assurance that these methods will be effective or that our counterparties will perform their obligations. see "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk." from time to time, various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies. our exposure to foreign exchange rate risk is exacerbated by our investments in emerging markets. we have matched substantially all of our foreign currency liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with assets denominated in their respective foreign currency, which limits the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuation on local operating results; however, fluctuations in such rates affect the translation of these results into our consolidated financial statements. although we take certain actions to address this risk, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation could materially adversely affect our reported results due to unhedged positions or the failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. see "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk." our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that we do not face in our domestic operations. we face the risk of discriminatory regulation, nationalization or expropriation of assets, price controls and exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold into u.s. dollars or other currencies. some of our foreign insurance operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where these risks are heightened. see "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk." in addition, we rely on local sales forces in these countries and may encounter labor problems resulting from workers' associations and trade unions in some countries. if our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training the sales force in that country. we are currently planning to expand our international operations in markets where we operate and in selected new markets. this may require considerable management time, as well as start-up expenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. operations in new foreign markets may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in existing markets may be affected by local economic and market conditions. therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not achieve expected operating margins and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. the business we acquired from travelers includes operations in several foreign countries, including australia, brazil, argentina, the united kingdom, belgium, poland, japan and hong kong. see "business -- international." those operations, and operations in other new markets, are subject to the risks described above, as well as our unfamiliarity with the business, legal and regulatory environment in any of those countries. 34 in recent years, the operating environment in argentina has been challenging. in argentina, we are principally engaged in the pension business. this business has incurred significant losses in recent years as a result of actions taken by the argentinean government in response to a sovereign debt crisis in december 2001. further governmental or legal actions related to pension reform could impact our obligations to our customers and could result in future losses in our argentinean operations. reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses as part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various business segments. see "business -- reinsurance activity." for example, we currently reinsure up to 90% of the mortality risk in excess of $1 million for most new individual life insurance policies that we write through our various franchises and for certain individual life policies the retention limits remained unchanged. while life reinsurance generally binds the reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured at generally fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new business. in certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for business already reinsured may also increase. any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to those policies we issue. as a result of consolidation of the life reinsurance market and other market factors, capacity in the life reinsurance market has decreased. further, life reinsurance is currently available at higher prices and on less favorable terms than those prevailing between 1997 and 2003. further consolidation, regulatory developments, catastrophic events or other significant developments affecting the pricing and availability of reinsurance could materially harm the reinsurance market and our ability to enter into reinsurance contracts. if the counterparties to our reinsurance arrangements or to the derivative instruments we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations we use reinsurance and derivative instruments to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. in general, reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. we cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us now or in the future or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. a reinsurer's insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of its reinsurance agreement with us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various business risks. we enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. see "business -- investments." if our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative instruments, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. such failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our insurance businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth our insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of insurance and other laws and regulations. state insurance laws regulate most aspects of our u.s. insurance businesses, and our insurance subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled and the states in which they are licensed. our non-u.s. insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled and operate. see "business -- regulation -- insurance regulation." 35 state laws in the united states grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things: - licensing companies and agents to transact business; - calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements; - mandating certain insurance benefits; - regulating certain premium rates; - reviewing and approving policy forms; - regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution arrangements and payment of inducements; - regulating advertising; - protecting privacy; - establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency standards; - fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity contracts; - approving changes in control of insurance companies; - restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates; and - regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments. state insurance guaranty associations have the right to assess insurance companies doing business in their state for funds to help pay the obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. because the amount and timing of an assessment is beyond our control, the liabilities that we have currently established for these potential liabilities may not be adequate. see "business -- regulation -- insurance regulation -- guaranty associations and similar arrangements." state insurance regulators and the national association of insurance commissioners ("naic") regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the naic and several states' legislatures have recently considered the need for regulations and/or laws to address agent or broker practices that have been the focus of recent investigations of broker compensation in the state of new york and in other jurisdictions. the naic has adopted a compensation disclosure amendment to its producers licensing model act which, if adopted by the states, would require disclosure by agents or brokers to customers that insurers will compensate such agents or brokers for the placement of insurance and documented acknowledgement of this arrangement in cases where the customer also compensates the agent or broker. several states have recently enacted laws similar to the naic amendment. some other states, including california and new york, are considering additional provisions that would require the disclosure of the amount of compensation and/or require (where an agent or broker represents more than one insurer) placement of the "best coverage." we cannot predict how many states may promulgate the naic amendment or similar regulations or the extent to which these regulations may have a material adverse impact on our business. currently, the u.s. federal government does not directly regulate the business of insurance. however, federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies. these areas include financial services regulation, securities regulation, pension regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. in addition, various forms of direct federal regulation of insurance have been proposed. these proposals include "the state modernization and regulatory transparency act," which 36 would maintain state-based regulation of insurance, but would affect state regulation of certain aspects of the business of insurance, including rates, agent and company licensing and market conduct examinations. we cannot predict whether this or other proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our international operations are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they operate, which in many ways is similar to that of the state regulation outlined above. many of our customers and independent sales intermediaries also operate in regulated environments. changes in the regulations that affect their operations also may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or distribute our products. accordingly, these changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations or audits of our subsidiaries that could, if determined adversely, have a material impact on us. we cannot predict whether or when regulatory actions may be taken that could adversely affect our operations. in addition, the interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements. legal and regulatory investigations and actions are increasingly common in the insurance business and may result in financial losses and harm to our reputation we face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. our pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings specific to us and others generally applicable to business practices in the industries in which we operate. in connection with our insurance operations, plaintiffs' lawyers may bring or are bringing class actions and individual suits alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product design, disclosure, administration, additional premium charges for premiums paid on a periodic basis, denial or delay of benefits and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers. plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, and the damages claimed and the amount of any probable and estimable liability, if any, may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. see "legal proceedings" and note 12 of notes to consolidated financial statements. due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular points in time may be inherently impossible to ascertain with any degree of certainty. inherent uncertainties can include how fact finders will view individually and in their totality documentary evidence, the credibility and effectiveness of witnesses' testimony, and how trial and appellate courts will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal. disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the relevant evidence and applicable law. on a quarterly and yearly basis, we review relevant information with respect to liabilities for litigation and contingencies to be reflected in our consolidated financial statements. the review includes senior legal and financial personnel. unless stated elsewhere herein, estimates of possible additional losses or ranges of loss for particular matters cannot in the ordinary course be made with a reasonable degree of certainty. see "legal proceedings" and note 12 of notes to consolidated financial statements. liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. liabilities have been established for a number of the matters noted in "legal proceedings" and note 12 of notes to consolidated financial statements. it is possible that some of the matters could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures or establish accruals in amounts that could not be estimated as of december 31, 2005. 37 metropolitan life and its affiliates are currently defendants in hundreds of lawsuits raising allegations of improper marketing and sales of individual life insurance policies or annuities. these lawsuits are generally referred to as "sales practices claims." metropolitan life is also a defendant in thousands of lawsuits seeking compensatory and punitive damages for personal injuries allegedly caused by exposure to asbestos or asbestos-containing products. these lawsuits principally have been based upon allegations relating to certain research, publication and other activities of one or more of metropolitan life's employees during the period from the 1920's through approximately the 1950's and have alleged that metropolitan life learned or should have learned of certain health risks posed by asbestos and, among other things, improperly publicized or failed to disclose those health risks. additional litigation relating to these matters may be commenced in the future. the ability of metropolitan life to estimate its ultimate asbestos exposure is subject to considerable uncertainty due to numerous factors. the availability of data is limited and it is difficult to predict with any certainty numerous variables that can affect liability estimates, including the number of future claims, the cost to resolve claims, the disease mix and severity of disease, the jurisdiction of claims filed, tort reform efforts and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts. the number of asbestos cases that may be brought or the aggregate amount of any liability that metropolitan life may ultimately incur is uncertain. accordingly, it is reasonably possible that our total exposure to asbestos claims may be greater than the liability recorded by us in our consolidated financial statements and that future charges to income may be necessary. the potential future charges could be material in particular quarterly or annual periods in which they are recorded. in addition, metropolitan life and metlife, inc. have been named as defendants in several lawsuits brought in connection with metropolitan life's demutualization in 2000. we are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as information requests, subpoenas and books and record examinations, from state and federal regulators and other authorities. a substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. moreover, even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation, regulatory action or investigation, we could suffer significant reputational harm, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our ability to attract new customers, retain our current customers and recruit and retain employees. regulatory inquiries and litigation may cause volatility in the price of stocks of companies in our industry. recently, the insurance industry has become the focus of increased scrutiny by regulatory and law enforcement authorities. this scrutiny includes the commencement of investigations and other proceedings by the new york state attorney general and other governmental authorities relating to allegations of improper conduct in connection with the payment of, and disclosure with respect to, contingent commissions paid by insurance companies to intermediaries, the solicitation and provision of fictitious or inflated quotes, the use of inducements in the sale of insurance products and the accounting treatment for finite insurance and reinsurance or other non-traditional or loss mitigation insurance and reinsurance products. one possible result of these investigations and attendant lawsuits is that many insurance industry practices and customs may change, including, but not limited to, the manner in which insurance is marketed and distributed through independent brokers and agents. our business strategy contemplates that we will rely heavily on both intermediaries and our internal sales force to market and distribute insurance products. we cannot predict how industry regulation with respect to the use of intermediaries may change. such changes, however, could adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy, which could materially affect our growth and profitability. recent industry-wide inquiries also include those regarding market timing and late trading in mutual funds and variable insurance products and, generally, the marketing of products. the sec has commenced an investigation with respect to market timing and late trading in a limited number of privately-placed variable insurance contracts that were sold through our subsidiary, general american life insurance company ("general american"). as previously reported, in may 2004, general american received a wells notice stating that the sec staff is considering recommending that the sec bring a civil action alleging violations of the u.s. securities laws against general american. under sec procedures, general american can avail itself of the opportunity to respond to the sec staff before it makes a formal recommendation regarding whether 38 any action alleging violations of the u.s. securities laws should be considered. general american has responded to the wells notice. we are fully cooperating with regard to this investigation. other recent industry-wide inquiries include those relating to finite insurance and reinsurance. we have received a subpoena from the connecticut attorney general requesting information regarding our participation in any finite reinsurance transactions. we have also received information requests relating to finite insurance or reinsurance from other regulatory and governmental entities. we believe we have appropriately accounted for transactions of this type and intend to cooperate fully with these information requests. we believe that a number of other industry participants have received similar requests from various regulatory and governmental authorities. it is reasonably possible that we may receive additional requests. we will fully cooperate with all such requests. we cannot give assurance that current claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and other proceedings against us will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. it is also possible that related or unrelated claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and proceedings may be commenced in the future, and we could become subject to further investigations and have lawsuits filed or enforcement actions initiated against us. in addition, increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings could result in new legal actions and precedents and industry-wide regulations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in u.s. federal and state securities laws and regulations may affect our operations and our profitability federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to insurance products that are also "securities," including variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies. as a result, some of our subsidiaries and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance contracts and policies are subject to extensive regulation under these securities laws. these subsidiaries issue variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies through separate accounts that are registered with the sec as investment companies under the investment company act of 1940, as amended. each registered separate account is generally divided into sub-accounts, each of which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is itself a registered investment company under the investment company act of 1940, as amended. in addition, the variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies issued by the separate accounts are registered with the sec under the securities act of 1933, as amended. other subsidiaries are registered with the sec as broker-dealers under the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, and are members of, and subject to, regulation by the nasd. further, some of our subsidiaries are registered as investment advisers with the sec under the investment advisers act of 1940, as amended, and are also registered as investment advisers in various states, as applicable. federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily intended to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect investors in the securities markets, as well as protect investment advisory or brokerage clients. these laws and regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with the securities laws and regulations. changes to these laws or regulations that restrict the conduct of our business could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in particular, changes in the regulations governing the registration and distribution of variable insurance products, such as changes in the regulatory standards under which the sale of a variable annuity contract or variable life insurance policy is considered suitable for a particular customer, could have such a material adverse effect. changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to consumers changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to consumers. for example, reductions in the federal income tax that investors are required to pay on long-term capital gains and on some dividends paid on stock may provide an incentive for some of our customers and potential customers to shift assets into mutual funds and away from products, including life insurance and annuities, designed to defer 39 taxes payable on investment returns. because the income taxes payable on long-term capital gains and some dividends paid on stock have been reduced, investors may decide that the tax-deferral benefits of annuity contracts are less advantageous than the potential after-tax income benefits of mutual funds or other investment products that provide dividends and long-term capital gains. a shift away from life insurance and annuity contracts and other tax-deferred products would reduce our income from sales of these products, as well as the assets upon which we earn investment income. we cannot predict whether any other legislation will be enacted, what the specific terms of any such legislation will be or how, if at all, this legislation or any other legislation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. as a holding company, metlife, inc. depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to transfer funds to it to pay dividends and meet its obligations metlife, inc. is a holding company for its insurance and financial subsidiaries and does not have any significant operations of its own. dividends from its subsidiaries and permitted payments to it under its tax sharing arrangements with its subsidiaries are its principal sources of cash to meet its obligations and to pay preferred and common dividends. if the cash the holding company receives from its subsidiaries is insufficient for it to fund its debt service and other holding company obligations, the holding company may be required to raise cash through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of additional equity or the sale of assets. the payment of dividends and other distributions to the holding company by its insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. in general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits are deemed "special" and require insurance regulatory approval. in addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of ordinary dividends or other payments by its insurance subsidiaries to the holding company if they determine that the payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. see "business -- regulation -- insurance regulation," "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations -- liquidity and capital resources -- the holding company" and note 14 of notes to consolidated financial statements. the maximum amount of dividends which could be paid to the holding company by metropolitan life, tic, mpc and metropolitan tower life insurance company ("mtl"), in 2005, without prior regulatory approval, was $880 million, $0 million, $187 million and $119 million, respectively. during the year ended december 31, 2005, metropolitan life paid $880 million in ordinary dividends for which prior insurance regulatory approval was not required and $2,320 million in special dividends as approved by the superintendent. tic has not paid any dividends since its acquisition by the holding company and may not make dividend payments for a two-year period following the date of acquisition without regulatory approval. mpc paid $400 million in special dividends, as approved by the rhode island superintendent of insurance, during the year ended december 31, 2005. mtl paid $54 million in ordinary dividends for which prior insurance regulatory approval was not required and $873 million in special dividends as approved by the delaware superintendent of insurance during the year ended december 31, 2005. metlife mexico, s.a. paid dividends to the holding company of $276 million during the year ended december 31, 2005. in addition, various subsidiaries paid $19 million in total to the holding company for the year ended december 31, 2005. the maximum amount of dividends which metropolitan life, tic, mpc and mtl may pay to us in 2006 without prior regulatory approval is $863 million, $0 million, $178 million, and $85 million, respectively. if paid before a specified date in 2006, some or all of an otherwise ordinary dividend may be deemed special by the relevant regulatory authority and require approval. any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or advances by our foreign subsidiaries to the holding company could be subject to taxation or other restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdiction in which such foreign subsidiaries operate. 40 we may need to fund deficiencies in our closed block; assets allocated to the closed block benefit only the holders of closed block policies the plan of reorganization entered into in connection with metropolitan life's 2000 demutualization required that we establish and operate an accounting mechanism, known as a closed block, to ensure that the reasonable dividend expectations of policyholders who own certain individual insurance policies of metropolitan life are met. see note 7 of notes to consolidated financial statements. we allocated assets to the closed block in an amount that will produce cash flows which, together with anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block, are reasonably expected to be sufficient to support obligations and liabilities relating to these policies, including, but not limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain expenses and taxes, and to provide for the continuation of the policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999, if the experience underlying such scales continues, and for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience changes. we cannot provide assurance that the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block will be sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies. if they are not sufficient, we must fund the shortfall. even if they are sufficient, we may choose, for competitive reasons, to support policyholder dividend payments with our general account funds. the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies in the closed block will benefit only the holders of those policies. in addition, to the extent that these amounts are greater than the amounts estimated at the time the closed block was funded, dividends payable in respect of the policies included in the closed block may be greater than they would be in the absence of a closed block. any excess earnings will be available for distribution over time only to closed block policyholders. the continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may adversely affect the level of claim losses we incur and the value of our investment portfolio the continued threat of terrorism, both within the united states and abroad, ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility in global financial markets and result in loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. we cannot predict whether, and the extent to which, companies in which we maintain investments may suffer losses as a result of financial, commercial or economic disruptions, or how any such disruptions might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or principal on their securities. the continued threat of terrorism also could result in increased reinsurance prices and reduced insurance coverage and potentially cause us to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. terrorist actions also could disrupt our operations centers in the united states or abroad. in addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions could result in higher claims under our insurance policies than anticipated. the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning could impair our ability to conduct business effectively in the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a blackout, a computer virus, a terrorist attack or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial position, particularly if those problems affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data. we depend heavily upon computer systems to provide reliable service. despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our servers could be subject to physical and electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. in addition, in the event that a significant number of our managers were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. these interruptions also may interfere with our suppliers' ability to provide goods and services and our employees ability to perform their job responsibilities. 41 we face unforeseen liabilities arising from other possible acquisitions and dispositions of businesses we have engaged in numerous dispositions and acquisitions of businesses in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future. there could be unforeseen liabilities that arise in connection with the businesses that we may sell or the businesses that we may acquire in the future. in addition, there may be liabilities that we fail, or we are unable, to discover in the course of performing due diligence investigations on each business that we have acquired or may acquire. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk........................................................ 138 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company must effectively manage, measure and monitor the market risk associated with its invested assets and interest rate sensitive insurance contracts. it has developed an integrated process for managing risk, which it conducts through its corporate risk management department, asset/liability management committees ("alm committees") and additional specialists at the business segment level. the company has established and implemented comprehensive policies and procedures at both the corporate and business segment level to minimize the effects of potential market volatility. the company regularly analyzes its exposure to interest rate, equity market and foreign currency exchange risk. as a result of that analysis, the company has determined that the fair value of its interest rate sensitive invested assets is materially exposed to changes in interest rates. the equity and foreign currency portfolios do not expose the company to material market risk. the company analyzes interest rate risk using various models including multi-scenario cash flow projection models that forecast cash flows of the liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivative instruments. the company uses a variety of strategies to manage interest rate, equity market, and foreign currency exchange risk, including the use of derivative instruments. the travelers acquisition has increased the company's exposure to market risk. the travelers acquisition has not changed management's processes for measuring, managing and monitoring market risk; however, some of those processes are utilizing interim manual reporting and estimation techniques while the company integrates the operations acquired. during the second half of 2005, management restructured the portfolio of assets that were acquired, generally reducing the amount of market risk associated with the acquired block, in line with the company's overall investment strategy. the acquisition also changed the 138 profile of the company's foreign currency exchange rate risk, although management still deems the aggregate sensitivity to foreign currency exchange rate risk to be immaterial. market risk exposures the company has exposure to market risk through its insurance operations and investment activities. for purposes of this disclosure, "market risk" is defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, equity market prices and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rates. the company's exposure to interest rate changes results from its significant holdings of fixed maturities, as well as its interest rate sensitive liabilities. the fixed maturities include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds and mortgage-backed securities, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium- and long-term treasury rates. the interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include guaranteed interest contracts and fixed annuities, which have the same type of interest rate exposure (medium- and long-term treasury rates) as the fixed maturities. the company employs product design, pricing and asset/liability management strategies to reduce the adverse effects of interest rate movements. product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products. asset/liability management strategies include the use of derivatives, the purchase of securities structured to protect against prepayments, and prepayment restrictions and related fees on mortgage loans and consistent monitoring of the pricing of the company's products in order to better match the duration of the assets and the liabilities they support. equity market prices. the company's investments in equity securities expose it to changes in equity prices, as do certain liabilities that involve long-term guarantees on equity performance. it manages this risk on an integrated basis with other risks through its asset/liability management strategies. the company also manages equity market price risk through industry and issuer diversification, asset allocation techniques and the use of derivatives. foreign currency exchange rates. the company's exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar results from its holdings in non-u.s. dollar denominated fixed maturity securities, equity securities and liabilities, as well as through its investments in foreign subsidiaries. the principal currencies that create foreign currency exchange rate risk in the company's investment portfolios are the euro, the canadian dollar and the british pound. the company mitigates the majority of its fixed maturities' foreign currency exchange rate risk through the utilization of foreign currency swaps and forward contracts. through its investments in foreign subsidiaries, the company is primarily exposed to the canadian dollar, the mexican peso, the australian dollar, the argentinean peso, the south korean won, the chilean peso, the taiwanese dollar and the japanese yen. the company has matched substantially all of its foreign currency liabilities in its foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency assets, thereby reducing its risk to currency exchange rate fluctuation. selectively, the company uses u.s. dollar assets to support certain long duration foreign currency liabilities. additionally, in some countries, local surplus is held entirely or in part in u.s. dollar assets which further minimizes exposure to exchange rate fluctuation risk. risk management corporate risk management. metlife has established several financial and non-financial senior management committees as part of its risk management process. these committees manage capital and risk positions, approve asset/liability management strategies and establish appropriate corporate business standards. metlife also has a separate corporate risk management department, which is responsible for risk throughout metlife and reports to metlife's chief financial officer. the corporate risk management department's primary responsibilities consist of: - implementing a board of directors-approved corporate risk framework, which outlines the company's approach for managing risk on an enterprise-wide basis; 139 - developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring and monitoring those risks identified in the corporate risk framework; - establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels; - deploying capital on an economic capital basis; and - reporting on a periodic basis to the governance committee of the holding company's board of directors and various financial and non-financial senior management committees. asset/liability management. the company actively manages its assets using an approach that balances quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity and investment return. the goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income taxes, risk-adjusted investment income and risk-adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are managed on a cash flow and duration basis. the asset/liability management process is the shared responsibility of the portfolio management unit, the business finance asset/liability management unit, and the operating business segments under the supervision of the various product line specific alm committees. the alm committees' duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios on a periodic basis, establishing investment guidelines and limits and providing oversight of the asset/liability management process. the portfolio managers and asset sector specialists, who have responsibility on a day-to-day basis for risk management of their respective investing activities, implement the goals and objectives established by the alm committees. each of metlife's business segments has an asset/liability officer who works with portfolio managers in the investment department to monitor investment, product pricing, hedge strategy and liability management issues. metlife establishes target asset portfolios for each major insurance product, which represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund its liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. these strategies include objectives for effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality. to manage interest rate risk, the company performs periodic projections of asset and liability cash flows to evaluate the potential sensitivity of its securities investments and liabilities to interest rate movements. these projections involve evaluating the potential gain or loss on most of the company's in-force business under various increasing and decreasing interest rate environments. new york state department of insurance regulations require that metlife perform some of these analyses annually as part of metlife's review of the sufficiency of its regulatory reserves. for several of its legal entities, the company maintains segmented operating and surplus asset portfolios for the purpose of asset/liability management and the allocation of investment income to product lines. for each segment, invested assets greater than or equal to the gaap liabilities less the dac asset and any non-invested assets allocated to the segment are maintained, with any excess swept to the surplus segment. the operating segments may reflect differences in legal entity, statutory line of business and any product market characteristic which may drive a distinct investment strategy with respect to duration, liquidity or credit quality of the invested assets. certain smaller entities make use of unsegmented general accounts for which the investment strategy reflects the aggregate characteristics of liabilities in those entities. the company measures relative sensitivities of the value of its assets and liabilities to changes in key assumptions utilizing company models. these models reflect specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting rates. in addition, these models include asset cash flow projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage prepayments and defaults. common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, are also used to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and liability values to changes in interest rates. in computing the duration of liabilities, consideration is given to all policyholder guarantees and to how the company intends to set indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or dividends. each operating asset segment has a duration constraint based on the liability duration and the investment objectives of that portfolio. where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity of available assets, as is the case with certain retirement and non-medical health products, the company may support such liabilities with equity investments or curve mismatch strategies. 140 hedging activities. to reduce interest rate risk, metlife's risk management strategies incorporate the use of various interest rate derivatives to adjust the overall duration and cash flow profile of its invested asset portfolios to better match the duration and cash flow profile of its liabilities. such instruments include financial futures, financial forwards, interest rate and credit default swaps, caps, floors and options. metlife also uses foreign currency swaps and forwards to hedge its foreign currency denominated fixed income investments. in 2004, metlife initiated a hedging strategy for certain equity price risks within its liabilities using equity futures and options. risk measurement; sensitivity analysis the company measures market risk related to its holdings of invested assets and other financial instruments, including certain market risk sensitive insurance contracts, based on changes in interest rates, equity market prices and currency exchange rates, utilizing a sensitivity analysis. this analysis estimates the potential changes in fair value, cash flows and earnings based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, equity market prices and currency exchange rates. the company believes that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the near-term. in performing this analysis, the company used market rates at december 31, 2005 to re-price its invested assets and other financial instruments. the sensitivity analysis separately calculated each of metlife's market risk exposures (interest rate, equity market price and foreign currency exchange rate) related to its trading and non-trading invested assets and other financial instruments. the sensitivity analysis performed included the market risk sensitive holdings described above. the company modeled the impact of changes in market rates and prices on the fair values of its invested assets, earnings and cash flows as follows: fair values. the company bases its potential change in fair values on an immediate change (increase or decrease) in: - the net present values of its interest rate sensitive exposures resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates; - the market value of its equity positions due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity prices; and - the u.s. dollar equivalent balances of the company's currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in currency exchange rates. earnings and cash flows. metlife calculates the potential change in earnings and cash flows on the change in its earnings and cash flows over a one-year period based on an immediate 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates and equity prices. the following factors were incorporated into the earnings and cash flows sensitivity analyses: - the reinvestment of fixed maturity securities; - the reinvestment of payments and prepayments of principal related to mortgage-backed securities; - the re-estimation of prepayment rates on mortgage-backed securities for each 10% change (increase or decrease) in the interest rates; and - the expected turnover (sales) of fixed maturities and equity securities, including the reinvestment of the resulting proceeds. 141 the sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as predictive of the company's future financial performance. the company cannot assure that its actual losses in any particular year will not exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. limitations related to this sensitivity analysis include: - the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgages; - for derivatives that qualify as hedges, the impact on reported earnings may be materially different from the change in market values; - the analysis excludes other significant real estate holdings and liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts; and - the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains unchanged throughout the year. accordingly, the company uses such models as tools and not substitutes for the experience and judgment of its corporate risk and asset/liability management personnel. based on its analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and prices, metlife has determined that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the fair value of its interest rate sensitive invested assets. the equity and foreign currency portfolios do not expose the company to material market risk. the table below illustrates the potential loss in fair value of the company's interest rate sensitive financial instruments at december 31, 2005. in addition, the potential loss with respect to the fair value of currency exchange rates and the company's equity price sensitive positions at december 31, 2005 is set forth in the table below. the potential loss in fair value for each market risk exposure of the company's portfolio, as of the period indicated was: december 31, 2005 -------------------- (in millions) non-trading: interest rate risk.......................................... $5,570 equity price risk........................................... $ 556 foreign currency exchange rate risk......................... $ 728 trading: interest rate risk.......................................... $ 6 the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in fair value of the company's non-trading interest sensitive financial instruments at december 31, 2005 by type of asset or liability. as of december 31, 2005 ------------------------------------ assuming a 10% increase notional in the yield amount fair value curve. -------- ---------- ------------ (in millions) assets fixed maturities.......................................... $230,050 $(5,633) equity securities......................................... 3,338 -- mortgage and consumer loans............................... 37,820 (616) policy loans.............................................. 9,981 (324) short-term investments.................................... 3,306 (18) cash and cash equivalents................................. 4,018 -- mortgage loan commitments................................. (4) (14) ------- total assets........................................... $(6,605) 142 as of december 31, 2005 ------------------------------------ assuming a 10% increase notional in the yield amount fair value curve. -------- ---------- ------------ (in millions) liabilities policyholder account balances............................. $107,083 $ 917 short-term debt........................................... 1,414 -- long-term debt............................................ 10,296 395 junior subordinated debt securities underlying common equity units........................................... 2,098 23 shares subject to mandatory redemption.................... 362 -- payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions........................................... 34,515 -- ------- total liabilities...................................... $ 1,335 other derivative instruments (designated hedges or otherwise) interest rate swaps.................................... $20,444 $ 584 $ (76) interest rate floors................................... 10,975 134 (39) interest rate caps..................................... 27,990 242 101 financial futures...................................... 1,159 4 (12) foreign currency swaps................................. 14,274 (464) (227) foreign currency forwards.............................. 4,622 (28) -- options................................................ 815 350 -- financial forwards..................................... 2,452 9 -- credit default swaps................................... 5,882 2 -- synthetic gics......................................... 5,477 -- -- other.................................................. 250 9 -- ------- total other.......................................... $ (253) ------- net change.................................................. $(5,570) ======= this quantitative measure of risk has increased by $1,920 million, or 53%, at december 31, 2005, from $3,650 million at december 31, 2004. the primary reasons for the increase are growth in assets exposed to interest rate risk in increasing interest scenarios including fixed maturity instruments and interest rate floors, and the increase in the yield curve since december 31, 2004. subsequent to the restructuring of assets to comply with metlife's investment guidelines, the travelers acquisition represents $702 million of the increase. approximately $600 million of the increase is due to asset growth other than from the travelers acquisition and approximately $200 million is due to the lengthening of the asset portfolio during 2005. the major contributor to the remainder of the change is movements in the yield curve. in addition to the analysis above, as part of its asset liability management program, the company also performs an analysis of the sensitivity to changes in interest rates, including both insurance liabilities and financial instruments. as of december 31, 2005, a hypothetical instantaneous 10% decrease in interest rates applied to the company's liabilities, insurance and associated asset portfolios would reduce the fair value of equity by $390 million. management does not expect that this sensitivity would produce a liquidity strain on the company. 143risk factors 27 risk factors changes in market interest rates may significantly affect our profitability some of our products, principally traditional whole life insurance, fixed annuities and gics, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our spread, or the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts in the company general account and the rate of return we are able to earn on general account investments intended to support obligations under the contracts. our spread is a key component of our net income. as interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, reducing our investment margin. moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the fixed-income securities, commercial mortgages and mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio with greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates, which exacerbates this risk. lowering interest crediting rates can help offset decreases in investment margins on some products. however, our ability to lower these rates could be limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. as a result, our spread could decrease or potentially become negative. our expectation for future spreads is an important component in the amortization of dac and voba and significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period. in addition, during periods of declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be relatively more attractive investments to consumers, resulting in increased premium payments on products with flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans and increased persistency, or a higher percentage of insurance policies remaining in force from year to year, during a period when our new investments carry lower returns. a decline in market interest rates could also reduce our return on investments that do not support particular policy obligations. accordingly, declining interest rates may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows and significantly reduce our profitability. 27 table of contents our results in taiwan are highly sensitive to interest rates and other related assumptions because of the sustained low interest rate environment in taiwan coupled with long-term interest rate guarantees of approximately 6% embedded in the life and health contracts sold prior to 2003 and the lack of availability of long-duration assets in the taiwanese capital markets to match such long-duration liabilities. during the fourth quarter of 2006, our taiwanese operation recorded a loss recognition adjustment (in the form of accelerated dac amortization) of $50 million, net of income tax, due, principally, to the continued low interest rate environment. the loss recognition testing that resulted in the charge during the fourth quarter of 2006 used a current best estimate of taiwanese interest rates of 2.1% rising to 3.5% over the next ten years and a corresponding increase in related lapse rates. if interest rates and related lapse assumptions do not improve, notwithstanding other actions we may take to reduce the impact, current estimates of future loss recognition of as much as $250 million, net of income tax, could be recognized in our results of operations in one or more future periods and additional capital may be required to be contributed to the taiwanese operation. the results of loss recognition testing for taiwan are inherently uncertain given the use of various assumptions and the long-term nature of the liability, and therefore, can only be reliably estimated within broad ranges which may vary significantly in future periods. increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect our profitability. in periods of rapidly increasing interest rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, the assets in the company general account with higher yielding assets needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep interest sensitive products competitive. we, therefore, may have to accept a lower spread and, thus, lower profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of existing contracts and related assets. in addition, policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals may tend to increase as policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns as interest rates rise. this process may result in cash outflows requiring that we sell invested assets at a time when the prices of those assets are adversely affected by the increase in market interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses. unanticipated withdrawals and terminations may cause us to accelerate the amortization of dac and voba, which would increase our current expenses and reduce net income. an increase in market interest rates could also have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the fair values of the fixed income securities that comprise a substantial portion of our investment portfolio. industry trends could adversely affect the profitability of our businesses our business segments continue to be influenced by a variety of trends that affect the insurance industry. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations industry trends. financial environment. the current financial environment presents a challenge for the life insurance industry. the level of long-term interest rates and the shape of the yield curve can have a negative impact on the demand for and the profitability of spread-based products such as fixed annuities, gics and universal life insurance. a flat or inverted yield curve and low long-term interest rates will be a concern until new money rates on corporate bonds are higher than overall life insurer investment portfolio yields. recent volatile equity market performance has also presented challenges for life insurers, as fee revenue from variable annuities and pension products is tied to separate account balances, which reflect equity market performance. also, variable annuity product demand often mirrors consumer demand for equity market investments. see changes in market interest rates may significantly affect our profitability. competitive pressures. the life insurance industry remains highly competitive. the product development and product life-cycles have shortened in many product segments, leading to more intense competition with respect to product features. larger companies have the ability to invest in brand equity, product development, technology and risk management, which are among the fundamentals for sustained profitable growth in the life insurance industry. in addition, several of the industry products can be quite homogeneous and subject to intense price competition. sufficient scale, financial strength and financial flexibility are becoming prerequisites for sustainable growth in the life insurance industry. larger market participants tend to have the capacity to invest in additional distribution capability and the information technology needed to offer the superior customer service demanded by an increasingly sophisticated industry client base. see competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability and business competition. 28 table of contents regulatory changes. the life insurance industry is regulated at the state level, with some products and services also subject to federal regulation. as life insurers introduce new and often more complex products, regulators refine capital requirements and introduce new reserving standards for the life insurance industry. regulations recently adopted or currently under review can potentially impact the reserve and capital requirements of the industry. in addition, regulators have undertaken market and sales practices reviews of several markets or products, including equity-indexed annuities, variable annuities and group products. see our insurance businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth and business regulation insurance regulation. pension plans. on august 17, 2006, president bush signed the ppa. the ppa is a comprehensive reform of defined benefit and defined contribution plan rules. defined benefit funding reforms may result in an increase in the shift from defined benefit to defined contribution programs and increased defined benefit plan freezes and terminations. these changes may adversely affect our business. a decline in equity markets or an increase in volatility in equity markets may adversely affect sales of our investment products and our profitability significant downturns and volatility in equity markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in three principal ways. first, market downturns and volatility may discourage purchases of separate account products, such as variable annuities, variable life insurance and mutual funds that have returns linked to the performance of the equity markets and may cause some of our existing customers to withdraw cash values or reduce investments in those products. second, downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a material adverse effect on the revenues and returns from our savings and investment products and services. because these products and services depend on fees related primarily to the value of assets under management, a decline in the equity markets could reduce our revenues by reducing the value of the investment assets we manage. the retail annuity business in particular is highly sensitive to equity markets, and a sustained weakness in the markets will decrease revenues and earnings in variable annuity products. third, we provide certain guarantees within some of our products that protect policyholders against significant downturns in the equity markets. for example, we offer variable annuity products with guaranteed features, such as minimum death and withdrawal benefits. these guarantees may be more costly than expected in volatile or declining equity market conditions, causing us to increase liabilities for future policy benefits, negatively affecting net income. the performance of our investments depends on conditions that are outside our control, and our net investment income can vary from period to period the performance of our investment portfolio depends in part upon the level of and changes in interest rates, equity prices, real estate values, the performance of the economy in general, the performance of the specific obligors included in our portfolio and other factors that are beyond our control. changes in these factors can affect our net investment income in any period, and such changes can be substantial. we invest a portion of our invested assets in pooled investment funds that make private equity investments. the amount and timing of income from such investment funds tend to be uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying private equity investments, which can be difficult to predict, as well as the timing of distributions from the funds, which depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds schedules for making distributions and their needs for cash. as a result, the amount of income that we record from these investments can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability our business segments are subject to intense competition. we believe that this competition is based on a number of factors, including service, product features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, e-business capabilities and name recognition. we compete with a large number of other insurers, as well as 29 table of contents non-insurance financial services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset managers, for individual consumers, employers and other group customers and agents and other distributors of insurance and investment products. some of these companies offer a broader array of products, have more competitive pricing or, with respect to other insurers, have higher claims paying ability ratings. some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete. national banks, which may sell annuity products of life insurers in some circumstances, also have pre-existing customer bases for financial services products. many of our insurance products, particularly those offered by our institutional segment, are underwritten annually, and, accordingly, there is a risk that group purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors rather than renewing coverage with us. the effect of competition may, as a result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell products in the future. in addition, the investment management and securities brokerage businesses have relatively few barriers to entry and continually attract new entrants. many of our competitors in these businesses offer a broader array of investment products and services and are better known than us as sellers of annuities and other investment products. see business competition. we may be unable to attract and retain sales representatives for our products we must attract and retain productive sales representatives to sell our insurance, annuities and investment products. strong competition exists among insurers for sales representatives with demonstrated ability. we compete with other insurers for sales representatives primarily on the basis of our financial position, support services and compensation and product features. we continue to undertake several initiatives to grow our career agency force while continuing to enhance the efficiency and production of our existing sales force. we cannot provide assurance that these initiatives will succeed in attracting and retaining new agents. sales of individual insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents. see business competition. differences between actual claims experience and underwriting and reserving assumptions may adversely affect our financial results our earnings significantly depend upon the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in setting prices for our products and establishing liabilities for future policy benefits and claims. our liabilities for future policy benefits and claims are established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims. for life insurance and annuity products, we calculate these liabilities based on many assumptions and estimates, including estimated premiums to be received over the assumed life of the policy, the timing of the event covered by the insurance policy, the amount of benefits or claims to be paid and the investment returns on the assets we purchase with the premiums we receive. we establish liabilities for property and casualty claims and benefits based on assumptions and estimates of damages and liabilities incurred. to the extent that actual claims experience is less favorable than the underlying assumptions we used in establishing such liabilities, we could be required to increase our liabilities. due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of liabilities for future policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely the amounts which we will ultimately pay to settle our liabilities. such amounts may vary from the estimated amounts, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future. we evaluate our liabilities periodically based on changes in the assumptions used to establish the liabilities, as well as our actual experience. we charge or credit changes in our liabilities to expenses in the period the liabilities are established or re-estimated. if the liabilities originally established for future benefit payments prove inadequate, we must increase them. such increases could affect earnings negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events. we have devoted significant resources to 30 table of contents develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not be fully effective. many of our methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. as a result, these methods may not predict future exposures, which could be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate. other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. this information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. catastrophes may adversely impact liabilities for policyholder claims and reinsurance availability our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that causes a large number of deaths. significant influenza pandemics have occurred three times in the last century, but neither the likelihood, timing, nor the severity of a future pandemic can be predicted. the effectiveness of external parties, including governmental and non-governmental organizations, in combating the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have a material impact on the losses experienced by us. in our group insurance operations, a localized event that affects the workplace of one or more of our group insurance customers could cause a significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims. these events could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any period and, depending on their severity, could also materially and adversely affect our financial condition. our auto home business has experienced, and will likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses that may have a material adverse impact on the business, results of operations and financial condition of the auto home segment. although auto home makes every effort to manage our exposure to catastrophic risks through volatility management and reinsurance programs, these efforts do not eliminate all risk. catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards), fires, and man-made events such as terrorist attacks. historically, substantially all of our catastrophe-related claims have related to homeowners coverages. however, catastrophes may also affect other auto home coverages. due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence, timing and severity of catastrophes. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations impact of hurricanes and note 15 of notes to consolidated financial statements. hurricanes and earthquakes are of particular note for our homeowners coverages. areas of major hurricane exposure include coastal sections of the northeastern united states (including lower new york, connecticut, rhode island and massachusetts), the gulf coast (including alabama, mississippi and louisiana) and florida. we also have some earthquake exposure, primarily along the new madrid fault line in the central united states and in the pacific northwest. losses incurred by auto home from all catastrophes, net of reinsurance but before tax, were $128 million, $286 million and $189 million in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. the 2006 and 2005 numbers include loss and loss adjustment expenses and reinstatement and additional reinsurance-related premiums which were caused by the magnitude of reinsurance recoverables. the extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however, pandemics, hurricanes, earthquakes and man-made catastrophes may produce significant damage in larger areas, especially those that are heavily populated. claims resulting from natural or man-made catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition. also, catastrophic events could harm the financial condition of our reinsurers and thereby increase the probability of default on reinsurance recoveries. our ability to write new business could also be affected. it is possible that increases in the value and geographic concentration of insured property and the effects of inflation could increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we establish liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. we cannot be certain that the liabilities we have established will be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities. from time to time, states have passed 31 table of contents legislation that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage risk, such as legislation restricting an insurer ability to withdraw from catastrophe-prone areas. while we attempt to limit our exposure to acceptable levels, subject to restrictions imposed by insurance regulatory authorities, a catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our ability to manage this risk and the profitability of our property and casualty and life insurance businesses depends in part on our ability to obtain catastrophe reinsurance, which may not be available at commercially acceptable rates in the future. see reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses. a downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could result in a loss of business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations financial strength ratings, which various nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ( nrsros ) publish as indicators of an insurance company ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations, are important to maintaining public confidence in our products, our ability to market our products and our competitive position. see business company ratings insurer financial strength ratings. downgrades in our financial strength ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including: reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other investment products; adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and independent sales intermediaries; materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders; requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and services to remain competitive; and adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices or at all. in addition to the financial strength ratings of the holding company insurance subsidiaries, various nrsros also publish credit ratings for metlife, inc. and several of its subsidiaries. credit ratings are indicators of a debt issuer ability to meet the terms of the debt obligations in a timely manner. see business company ratings credit ratings. a downgrade in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including increasing the cost of borrowing or adversely affecting our relationships with credit counterparties. as a result of the additional securities that we issued to finance a portion of the purchase price for the acquisition of travelers, our leverage ratio increased moderately, but returned to pre-acquisition levels by december 31, 2006. rating agencies assign ratings based upon several factors, some of which relate to general economic conditions and circumstances outside of our control. in addition, rating agencies may employ different models and formulas to assess our financial strength and creditworthiness, and may alter these models from time to time at their discretion. we cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. if our business does not perform well or if actual experience versus estimates used in valuing and amortizing dac and voba vary significantly, we may be required to accelerate the amortization and/or impair the dac and voba which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition we incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal business. those costs that vary with and are primarily related to the production of new and renewal business are deferred and referred to as dac. the recovery of dac is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. the amount of future profit is dependent principally on investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest crediting rates, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance 32 table of contents counterparties and certain economic variables, such as inflation. of these factors, we anticipate that investment returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of such costs. the aforementioned factors enter into management estimates of gross profits, which generally are used to amortize such costs. if the estimates of gross profits were overstated, then the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to income. such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. voba reflects the estimated fair value of in-force contracts in a life insurance company acquisition and represents the portion of the purchase price that is allocated to the value of the right to receive future cash flows from the insurance and annuity contracts in-force at the acquisition date. voba is based on actuarially determined projections. actual experience may vary from the projections. revisions to estimates result in changes to the amounts expensed in the reporting period in which the revisions are made and could result in an impairment and a charge to income. also, as voba is amortized similarly to dac, an acceleration of the amortization of voba would occur if the estimates of gross profits were overstated. accordingly, the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period in which the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to net income. such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if the travelers business does not perform well, we may be required to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset or to recognize an impairment of our goodwill, established at the acquisition, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition as a result of the acquisition of travelers, we recognized net deferred income tax assets of $2.1 billion and established goodwill of $4.3 billion. the deferred income tax asset was recorded upon acquisition as a result of an election made under the internal revenue code section 338. this election resulted in a step-up in tax basis of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed upon the travelers acquisition. the realizability of the deferred income tax asset is assessed periodically by management. if, based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized, then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. goodwill is established as the excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired. we test goodwill at least annually for impairment. impairment testing is performed based upon estimates of the fair value of the reporting unit to which the goodwill relates. the reporting unit is the operating segment, or a business one level below that operating segment if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at that level. the fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the business. if it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, we must write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. such write downs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. defaults, downgrades or other events impairing the value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio may reduce our earnings we are subject to the risk that the issuers of the fixed maturity securities we own may default on principal and interest payments they owe us. at december 31, 2006, the fixed maturity securities of $243 billion in our investment portfolio represented 73% of our total cash and invested assets. the occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance or other events that adversely affect the issuers of these securities could cause the value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio and our net earnings to decline and the default rate of the fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio to increase. a ratings downgrade affecting particular issuers or securities could also have a similar effect. with economic uncertainty and increasing interest rates, credit quality of issuers could be adversely affected. any event reducing the value of these securities other than on a temporary basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. defaults on our mortgage and consumer loans may adversely affect our profitability our mortgage and consumer loan investments face default risk. our mortgage and consumer loans are principally collateralized by commercial, agricultural and residential properties, as well as automobiles. at 33 table of contents december 31, 2006, our mortgage and consumer loan investments of $42.2 billion represented 12.7% of our total cash and invested assets. at december 31, 2006, loans that were either delinquent or in the process of foreclosure totaled less than 1% of our mortgage and consumer loan investments. the performance of our mortgage and consumer loan investments, however, may fluctuate in the future. in addition, substantially all of our mortgage loan investments have balloon payment maturities. an increase in the default rate of our mortgage and consumer loan investments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. some of our investments are relatively illiquid our investments in privately placed fixed maturity securities, mortgage and consumer loans, and equity real estate, including real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests are relatively illiquid. these asset classes represented 25.6% of the carrying value of our total cash and invested assets as of december 31, 2006. if we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal cash requirements, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize, or both. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and foreign securities markets could negatively affect our profitability we are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar resulting from our holdings of non-u.s. dollar denominated securities and investments in foreign subsidiaries. if the currencies of the non-u.s. dollar denominated securities we hold in our investment portfolios decline against the u.s. dollar, our investment returns, and thus our profitability, may be adversely affected. although we use foreign currency swaps and forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk, we cannot provide assurance that these methods will be effective or that our counterparties will perform their obligations. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. from time to time, various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies. our exposure to foreign exchange rate risk is exacerbated by our investments in emerging markets. we have matched substantially all of our foreign currency liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with assets denominated in their respective foreign currency, which limits the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuation on local operating results; however, fluctuations in such rates affect the translation of these results into our consolidated financial statements. although we take certain actions to address this risk, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation could materially adversely affect our reported results due to unhedged positions or the failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that we do not face in our domestic operations. we face the risk of discriminatory regulation, nationalization or expropriation of assets, price controls and exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold into u.s. dollars or other currencies. some of our foreign insurance operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where these risks are heightened. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in addition, we rely on local sales forces in these countries and may encounter labor problems resulting from workers associations and trade unions in some countries. if our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training the sales force in that country. we are currently planning to expand our international operations in markets where we operate and in selected new markets. this may require considerable management time, as well as start-up expenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. operations in new foreign markets may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in existing markets may be affected by local economic and market 34 table of contents conditions. therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not achieve expected operating margins and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. the business we acquired from travelers includes operations in several foreign countries, including australia, brazil, argentina, the united kingdom, belgium, poland, japan and hong kong. see business international. those operations, and operations in other new markets, are subject to the risks described above, as well as our unfamiliarity with the business, legal and regulatory environment in any of those countries. in recent years, the operating environment in argentina has been challenging. in argentina, we are principally engaged in the pension business. this business has incurred significant losses in recent years as a result of actions taken by the argentinean government in response to a sovereign debt crisis in december 2001. further governmental or legal actions related to pension reform could impact our obligations to our customers and could result in future losses in our argentinean operations. see also changes in market interest rates may significantly affect our profitability regarding the impact of low interest rates on our taiwanese operations. reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses as part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various business segments. see business reinsurance activity. for example, we currently reinsure up to 90% of the mortality risk in excess of $1 million for most new individual life insurance policies that we write through our various franchises. while reinsurance agreements generally bind the reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured at generally fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new business. in certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for business already reinsured may also increase. any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to those policies we issue. if the counterparties to our reinsurance or indemnification arrangements or to the derivative instruments we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations we use reinsurance, indemnification and derivative instruments to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. in general, reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers and indemnitors. we cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that indemnitors will honor their obligations now or in the future or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. a reinsurer or indemnitor insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of reinsurance agreements or indemnity agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various business risks. we enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. see business investments. if our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative instruments, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. such failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our insurance businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth our insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of insurance and other laws and regulations. state insurance laws regulate most aspects of our u.s. insurance businesses, and the holding company insurance 35 table of contents subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled and the states in which they are licensed. our non-u.s. insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled and operate. see business regulation insurance regulation. state laws in the united states grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things: licensing companies and agents to transact business; calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements; mandating certain insurance benefits; regulating certain premium rates; reviewing and approving policy forms; regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution arrangements and payment of inducements; regulating advertising; protecting privacy; establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency standards; fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity contracts; approving changes in control of insurance companies; restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates; and regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments. state insurance guaranty associations have the right to assess insurance companies doing business in their state for funds to help pay the obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. because the amount and timing of an assessment is beyond our control, the liabilities that we have currently established for these potential liabilities may not be adequate. see business regulation insurance regulation guaranty associations and similar arrangements. state insurance regulators and the naic regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the naic and several states legislatures have recently considered the need for regulations and/or laws to address agent or broker practices that have been the focus of recent investigations of broker compensation in the state of new york and in other jurisdictions. the naic has adopted a compensation disclosure amendment to its producers licensing model act which, if adopted by the states, would require disclosure by agents or brokers to customers that insurers will compensate such agents or brokers for the placement of insurance and documented acknowledgement of this arrangement in cases where the customer also compensates the agent or broker. several states have recently enacted laws similar to the naic amendment. some other states have considered other proposed requirements, also relating to disclosure rather than the regulation of the substance of compensation. we cannot predict how many states may promulgate the naic amendment or alternative regulations or the extent to which these regulations may have a material adverse impact on our business. currently, the u.s. federal government does not directly regulate the business of insurance. however, federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies. these areas include financial services regulation, securities regulation, pension regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. in addition, various forms of direct federal regulation of insurance have been proposed. 36 table of contents these proposals include the national insurance act of 2006, which would permit an optional federal charter for insurers. we cannot predict whether this or other proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our international operations are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they operate, which in many ways is similar to that of the state regulation outlined above. many of our customers and independent sales intermediaries also operate in regulated environments. changes in the regulations that affect their operations also may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or distribute our products. accordingly, these changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations or audits of the holding company subsidiaries that could, if determined adversely, have a material impact on us. we cannot predict whether or when regulatory actions may be taken that could adversely affect our operations. in addition, the interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements. litigation and regulatory investigations are increasingly common in the insurance business and may result in significant financial losses and harm to our reputation we face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. our pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings specific to us and others generally applicable to business practices in the industries in which we operate. in connection with our insurance operations, plaintiffs lawyers may bring or are bringing class actions and individual suits alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product design, disclosure, administration, additional premium charges for premiums paid on a periodic basis, denial or delay of benefits and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers. plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, and the damages claimed and the amount of any probable and estimable liability, if any, may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. see legal proceedings and note 15 of notes to consolidated financial statements. due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular points in time may be inherently impossible to ascertain with any degree of certainty. inherent uncertainties can include how fact finders will view individually and in their totality documentary evidence, the credibility and effectiveness of witnesses testimony, and how trial and appellate courts will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal. disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the relevant evidence and applicable law. on a quarterly and yearly basis, we review relevant information with respect to liabilities for litigation and contingencies to be reflected in our consolidated financial statements. the review includes senior legal and financial personnel. unless stated elsewhere herein, estimates of possible additional losses or ranges of loss for particular matters cannot in the ordinary course be made with a reasonable degree of certainty. see legal proceedings and note 15 of notes to consolidated financial statements. liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. liabilities have been established for a number of the matters noted in legal proceedings and note 15 of notes to consolidated financial statements. it is possible that some of the matters could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures or establish liabilities in amounts that could not be estimated as of december 31, 2006. metropolitan life and its affiliates are currently defendants in hundreds of lawsuits raising allegations of improper marketing and sales of individual life insurance policies or annuities. these lawsuits are generally referred to as sales practices claims. metropolitan life is also a defendant in thousands of lawsuits seeking compensatory 37 table of contents and punitive damages for personal injuries allegedly caused by exposure to asbestos or asbestos-containing products. these lawsuits principally have been based upon allegations relating to certain research, publication and other activities of one or more of metropolitan life employees during the period from the 1920 through approximately the 1950 and have alleged that metropolitan life learned or should have learned of certain health risks posed by asbestos and, among other things, improperly publicized or failed to disclose those health risks. additional litigation relating to these matters may be commenced in the future. the ability of metropolitan life to estimate its ultimate asbestos exposure is subject to considerable uncertainty due to numerous factors. the availability of data is limited and it is difficult to predict with any certainty numerous variables that can affect liability estimates, including the number of future claims, the cost to resolve claims, the disease mix and severity of disease, the jurisdiction of claims filed, tort reform efforts and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts. the number of asbestos cases that may be brought or the aggregate amount of any liability that metropolitan life may ultimately incur is uncertain. accordingly, it is reasonably possible that our total exposure to asbestos claims may be greater than the liability recorded by us in our consolidated financial statements and that future charges to income may be necessary. the potential future charges could be material in particular quarterly or annual periods in which they are recorded. in addition, metropolitan life and metlife, inc. have been named as defendants in several lawsuits brought in connection with metropolitan life demutualization in 2000. we are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as information requests, subpoenas and books and record examinations, from state and federal regulators and other authorities. a substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. moreover, even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation, regulatory action or investigation, we could suffer significant reputational harm, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our ability to attract new customers, retain our current customers and recruit and retain employees. regulatory inquiries and litigation may cause volatility in the price of stocks of companies in our industry. the insurance industry has become the focus of increased scrutiny by regulatory and law enforcement authorities. this scrutiny includes the commencement of investigations and other proceedings by the new york state attorney general and other governmental authorities relating to allegations of improper conduct in connection with the payment of, and disclosure with respect to, contingent commissions paid by insurance companies to intermediaries, the solicitation and provision of fictitious or inflated quotes, and the use of inducements in the sale of insurance products. one possible result of these investigations and attendant lawsuits is that many insurance industry practices and customs may change, including, but not limited to, the manner in which insurance is marketed and distributed through independent brokers and agents. our business strategy contemplates that we will rely heavily on both intermediaries and our internal sales force to market and distribute insurance products. we cannot predict how industry regulation with respect to the use of intermediaries may change. such changes, however, could adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy, which could materially affect our growth and profitability. recent industry-wide inquiries also include those regarding market timing and late trading in mutual funds and variable insurance products and, generally, the marketing of products. the sec has commenced an investigation with respect to market timing and late trading in a limited number of privately-placed variable insurance contracts that were sold through metlife, inc. subsidiary, general american. as previously reported, in may 2004, general american received a wells notice stating that the sec staff is considering recommending that the sec bring a civil action alleging violations of the u.s. securities laws against general american. under sec procedures, general american can avail itself of the opportunity to respond to the sec staff before it makes a formal recommendation regarding whether any action alleging violations of the u.s. securities laws should be considered. general american has responded to the wells notice. we are fully cooperating with regard to this investigation. we cannot give assurance that current claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and other proceedings against us will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. it is also possible that related or unrelated claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and proceedings may be commenced in the future, and we could become subject to further investigations and have lawsuits filed or enforcement actions initiated against us. in addition, increased regulatory 38 table of contents scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings could result in new legal actions and precedents and industry-wide regulations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in accounting standards issued by the financial accounting standards board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements our financial statements are subject to the application of gaap, which is periodically revised and/or expanded. accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the financial accounting standards board. it is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. changes in u.s. federal and state securities laws and regulations may affect our operations and our profitability federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to insurance products that are also securities, including variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies. as a result, some of metlife, inc. subsidiaries and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance contracts and policies are subject to extensive regulation under these securities laws. these subsidiaries issue variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies through separate accounts that are registered with the sec as investment companies under the investment company act of 1940. each registered separate account is generally divided into sub-accounts, each of which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is itself a registered investment company under the investment company act of 1940. in addition, the variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies issued by the separate accounts are registered with the sec under the securities act of 1933. other subsidiaries are registered with the sec as broker-dealers under the securities exchange act of 1934, and are members of, and subject to, regulation by nasd. further, some of the holding company subsidiaries are registered as investment advisers with the sec under the investment advisers act of 1940, and are also registered as investment advisers in various states, as applicable. federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily intended to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect investors in the securities markets, as well as protect investment advisory or brokerage clients. these laws and regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with the securities laws and regulations. changes to these laws or regulations that restrict the conduct of our business could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in particular, changes in the regulations governing the registration and distribution of variable insurance products, such as changes in the regulatory standards under which the sale of a variable annuity contract or variable life insurance policy is considered suitable for a particular customer, could have such a material adverse effect. changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to consumers changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to consumers. for example, reductions in the federal income tax that investors are required to pay on long-term capital gains and dividends paid on stock may provide an incentive for some of our customers and potential customers to shift assets away from some insurance company products, including life insurance and annuities, designed to defer taxes payable on investment returns. because the income taxes payable on long-term capital gains and some dividends paid on stock has been reduced, investors may decide that the tax-deferral benefits of annuity contracts are less advantageous than the potential after-tax income benefits of mutual funds or other investment products that provide dividends and long-term capital gains. a shift away from life insurance and annuity contracts and other tax-deferred products would reduce our income from sales of these products, as well as the assets upon which we earn investment income. we cannot predict whether any tax legislation impacting insurance products will be enacted, what the specific terms of any such legislation will be or whether, if at all, any legislation would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 39 table of contents state laws, federal laws, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and our stockholder rights plan may delay, deter or prevent takeovers and business combinations that stockholders might consider in their best interests state laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. for instance, they may prevent stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of metlife, inc. common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of metlife, inc. common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. any person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would face various regulatory obstacles which may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders of metlife, inc. might consider in their best interests. first, the insurance laws and regulations of the various states in which metlife, inc. insurance subsidiaries are organized may delay or impede a business combination involving us. state insurance laws prohibit an entity from acquiring control of an insurance company without the prior approval of the domestic insurance regulator. under most states statutes, an entity is presumed to have control of an insurance company if it owns, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of that insurance company or its parent company. federal banking authorities would also have to approve the indirect change of control of our banking operations. in addition, the investment company act of 1940 would require approval by the contract owners of our variable contracts in order to effectuate a change of control of any affiliated investment adviser to a mutual fund underlying our variable contracts. finally, nasd approval would be necessary for a change of control of any nasd registered broker-dealer that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of metlife, inc. in addition, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law may affect the ability of an interested stockholder to engage in certain business combinations, including mergers, consolidations or acquisitions of additional shares, for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. an interested stockholder is defined to include persons owning, directly or indirectly, 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation. metlife, inc. certificate of incorporation and by-laws also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. these provisions may adversely affect prevailing market prices for metlife, inc. common stock and include: classification of metlife, inc. board of directors into three classes; a prohibition on the calling of special meetings by stockholders; advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates to the board of directors and stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; and supermajority voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation and by-laws. the stockholder rights plan adopted by metlife, inc. board of directors may also have anti-takeover effects. the stockholder rights plan is designed to protect metlife, inc. stockholders in the event of unsolicited offers to acquire us and other coercive takeover tactics which, in the opinion of metlife, inc. board of directors, could impair its ability to represent stockholder interests. the provisions of the stockholder rights plan may render an unsolicited takeover more difficult or less likely to occur or might prevent such a takeover, even though such takeover may offer metlife, inc. stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing market price and may be favored by a majority of metlife, inc. stockholders. as a holding company, metlife, inc. depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to transfer funds to it to meet its obligations and pay dividends metlife, inc. is a holding company for its insurance and financial subsidiaries and does not have any significant operations of its own. dividends from its subsidiaries and permitted payments to it under its tax sharing arrangements with its subsidiaries are its principal sources of cash to meet its obligations and to pay preferred and common dividends. if the cash the holding company receives from its subsidiaries is insufficient for it to fund its debt service and other holding company obligations, the holding company may be required to raise cash through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of additional equity or the sale of assets. 40 table of contents the payment of dividends and other distributions to the holding company by its insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. in general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits require insurance regulatory approval. in addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of dividends or other payments by its insurance subsidiaries to the holding company if they determine that the payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. see business regulation insurance regulation, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the holding company and note 17 of notes to consolidated financial statements. any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or advances by our foreign subsidiaries to the holding company could be subject to taxation or other restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdiction in which such foreign subsidiaries operate. see our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risk that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability. metlife, inc. board of directors may control the outcome of stockholder votes on many matters due to the voting provisions of the metlife policyholder trust under metropolitan life plan of reorganization, we established the metlife policyholder trust (the trust ) to hold the shares of metlife, inc. common stock allocated to eligible policyholders not receiving cash or policy credits under the plan. as of february 26, 2007, 274,293,334 shares, or 36.3%, of the outstanding shares of metlife, inc. common stock, are held in the trust. because of the number of shares held in the trust and the voting provisions of the trust, the trust may affect the outcome of matters brought to a stockholder vote. except on votes regarding certain fundamental corporate actions described below, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held in the trust in accordance with the recommendations given by metlife, inc. board of directors to its stockholders or, if the board gives no such recommendations, as directed by the board. as a result of the voting provisions of the trust, the board of directors may be able to control votes on matters submitted to a vote of stockholders, excluding those fundamental corporate actions, so long as the trust holds a substantial number of shares of common stock. if the vote relates to fundamental corporate actions specified in the trust, the trustee will solicit instructions from the trust beneficiaries and vote all shares held in the trust in proportion to the instructions it receives. these actions include: an election or removal of directors in which a stockholder has properly nominated one or more candidates in opposition to a nominee or nominees of metlife, inc. board of directors or a vote on a stockholder proposal to oppose a board nominee for director, remove a director for cause or fill a vacancy caused by the removal of a director by stockholders, subject to certain conditions; a merger or consolidation, a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the assets, or a recapitalization or dissolution, of metlife, inc., in each case requiring a vote of stockholders under applicable delaware law; any transaction that would result in an exchange or conversion of shares of common stock held by the trust for cash, securities or other property; and any proposal requiring metlife, inc. board of directors to amend or redeem the rights under the stockholder rights plan, other than a proposal with respect to which we have received advice of nationally-recognized legal counsel to the effect that the proposal is not a proper subject for stockholder action under delaware law. if a vote concerns any of these fundamental corporate actions, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held by the trust in proportion to the instructions it received, which will give disproportionate weight to the instructions actually given by trust beneficiaries. 41 table of contents we may need to fund deficiencies in our closed block; assets allocated to the closed block benefit only the holders of closed block policies the plan of reorganization entered into in connection with metropolitan life 2000 demutualization required that we establish and operate an accounting mechanism, known as a closed block, to ensure that the reasonable dividend expectations of policyholders who own certain individual insurance policies of metropolitan life are met. see note 9 of notes to consolidated financial statements. we allocated assets to the closed block in an amount that will produce cash flows which, together with anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block, are reasonably expected to be sufficient to support obligations and liabilities relating to these policies, including, but not limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain expenses and tax, and to provide for the continuation of the policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999, if the experience underlying such scales continues, and for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience changes. we cannot provide assurance that the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block will be sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies. if they are not sufficient, we must fund the shortfall. even if they are sufficient, we may choose, for competitive reasons, to support policyholder dividend payments with our general account funds. the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies in the closed block will benefit only the holders of those policies. in addition, to the extent that these amounts are greater than the amounts estimated at the time the closed block was funded, dividends payable in respect of the policies included in the closed block may be greater than they would be in the absence of a closed block. any excess earnings will be available for distribution over time only to closed block policyholders. the continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may adversely affect the level of claim losses we incur and the value of our investment portfolio the continued threat of terrorism, both within the united states and abroad, ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility in global financial markets and result in loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. we cannot predict whether, and the extent to which, companies in which we maintain investments may suffer losses as a result of financial, commercial or economic disruptions, or how any such disruptions might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or principal on their securities. the continued threat of terrorism also could result in increased reinsurance prices and reduced insurance coverage and potentially cause us to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. terrorist actions also could disrupt our operations centers in the united states or abroad. in addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions could result in higher claims under our insurance policies than anticipated. the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning could impair our ability to conduct business effectively in the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an epidemic, an industrial accident, a blackout, a computer virus, a terrorist attack or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial position, particularly if those problems affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data. we depend heavily upon computer systems to provide reliable service. despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our servers could be subject to physical and electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. in addition, in the event that a significant number of our managers were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. these interruptions also may interfere with our suppliers ability to provide goods and services and our employees ability to perform their job responsibilities. 42 table of contents we face unforeseen liabilities arising from possible acquisitions and dispositions of businesses we have engaged in dispositions and acquisitions of businesses in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future. there could be unforeseen liabilities that arise in connection with the businesses that we may sell or the businesses that we may acquire in the future. in addition, there may be liabilities that we fail, or we are unable, to discover in the course of performing due diligence investigations on each business that we have acquired or may acquire. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 164 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company must effectively manage, measure and monitor the market risk associated with its invested assets and interest rate sensitive insurance contracts. it has developed an integrated process for managing risk, which it conducts through its corporate risk management department, alm committees and additional specialists at the business segment level. the company has established and implemented comprehensive policies and procedures at both the corporate and business segment level to minimize the effects of potential market volatility. the company regularly analyzes its exposure to interest rate, equity market and foreign currency exchange risk. as a result of that analysis, the company has determined that the fair value of its interest rate sensitive invested assets is materially exposed to changes in interest rates. the equity and foreign currency portfolios do not expose the company to material market risk (as described below). metlife generally uses option adjusted duration to manage interest rate risk and the methods and assumptions used are generally consistent with those used by the company in 2005. the company analyzes interest rate risk using various models including multi-scenario cash flow projection models that forecast cash flows of the liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivative instruments. the company uses a variety of strategies to manage interest rate, equity market, and foreign currency exchange risk, including the use of derivative instruments. market risk exposures the company has exposure to market risk through its insurance operations and investment activities. for purposes of this disclosure, market risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, equity market prices and foreign currency exchange rates. 164 table of contents interest rates. the company exposure to interest rate changes results from its significant holdings of fixed maturity securities, as well as its interest rate sensitive liabilities. the fixed maturity securities include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds and mortgage-backed securities, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium- and long-term treasury rates. the interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include gics and annuities, which have the same type of interest rate exposure (medium- and long-term treasury rates) as fixed maturity securities. the company employs product design, pricing and asset/liability management strategies to reduce the adverse effects of interest rate movements. product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products. asset/liability management strategies include the use of derivatives, the purchase of securities structured to protect against prepayments, prepayment restrictions and related fees on mortgage loans and consistent monitoring of the pricing of the company products in order to better match the duration of the assets and the liabilities they support. see also risk factors changes in market interest rates may significantly affect our profitability. equity market prices. the company investments in equity securities expose it to changes in equity prices, as do certain liabilities that involve long-term guarantees on equity performance. it manages this risk on an integrated basis with other risks through its asset/liability management strategies. the company also manages equity market price risk through industry and issuer diversification, asset allocation techniques and the use of derivatives. foreign currency exchange rates. the company exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar results from its holdings in non-u.s. dollar denominated fixed maturity securities, equity securities and liabilities, as well as through its investments in foreign subsidiaries. the principal currencies that create foreign currency exchange rate risk in the company investment portfolios are the euro, the canadian dollar and the british pound. the company mitigates its fixed maturity securities foreign currency exchange rate risk through the utilization of foreign currency swaps and forward contracts. through its investments in foreign subsidiaries, the company is primarily exposed to the canadian dollar, the mexican peso, the australian dollar, the argentinean peso, the south korean won, the chilean peso, the taiwanese dollar and the japanese yen. the company has matched substantially all of its foreign currency liabilities in its foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency assets, thereby reducing its risk to currency exchange rate fluctuation. selectively, the company uses u.s. dollar assets to support certain long duration foreign currency liabilities. additionally, in some countries, local surplus is held entirely or in part in u.s. dollar assets which further minimizes exposure to exchange rate fluctuation risk. risk management corporate risk management. metlife has established several financial and non-financial senior management committees as part of its risk management process. these committees manage capital and risk positions, approve asset/liability management strategies and establish appropriate corporate business standards. metlife also has a separate corporate risk management department, which is responsible for risk throughout metlife and reports to metlife chief financial officer. the corporate risk management department primary responsibilities consist of: implementing a board of directors-approved corporate risk framework, which outlines the company approach for managing risk on an enterprise-wide basis; developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring and monitoring those risks identified in the corporate risk framework; establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels; deploying capital on an economic capital basis; and reporting on a periodic basis to the governance committee of the holding company board of directors and various financial and non-financial senior management committees. asset/liability management. the company actively manages its assets using an approach that balances quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity and investment return. the goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income tax, risk-adjusted investment income and risk-adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are managed on a cash flow and duration basis. the asset/liability management process is the shared responsibility of the portfolio management unit, the financial management and oversight asset/liability management unit, and the operating business segments under the supervision of the 165 table of contents various product line specific alm committees. the alm committees duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios on a periodic basis, establishing investment guidelines and limits and providing oversight of the asset/liability management process. the portfolio managers and asset sector specialists, who have responsibility on a day-to-day basis for risk management of their respective investing activities, implement the goals and objectives established by the alm committees. see also risk factors changes in market interest rates may significantly affect our profitability. each of metlife business segments has an asset/liability officer who works with portfolio managers in the investment department to monitor investment, product pricing, hedge strategy and liability management issues. metlife establishes target asset portfolios for each major insurance product, which represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund its liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. these strategies are monitored through regular review of portfolio metrics, such as effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality. to manage interest rate risk, the company performs periodic projections of asset and liability cash flows to evaluate the potential sensitivity of its securities investments and liabilities to interest rate movements. these projections involve evaluating the potential gain or loss on most of the company in-force business under various increasing and decreasing interest rate environments. department regulations require that metlife perform some of these analyses annually as part of metlife review of the sufficiency of its regulatory reserves. for several of its legal entities, the company maintains segmented operating and surplus asset portfolios for the purpose of asset/liability management and the allocation of investment income to product lines. for each segment, invested assets greater than or equal to the gaap liabilities less the dac asset and any non-invested assets allocated to the segment are maintained, with any excess swept to the surplus segment. the operating segments may reflect differences in legal entity, statutory line of business and any product market characteristic which may drive a distinct investment strategy with respect to duration, liquidity or credit quality of the invested assets. certain smaller entities make use of unsegmented general accounts for which the investment strategy reflects the aggregate characteristics of liabilities in those entities. the company measures relative sensitivities of the value of its assets and liabilities to changes in key assumptions utilizing company models. these models reflect specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting rates. in addition, these models include asset cash flow projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage prepayments and defaults. common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, are also used to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and liability values to changes in interest rates. in computing the duration of liabilities, consideration is given to all policyholder guarantees and to how the company intends to set indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or dividends. each operating asset segment has a duration constraint based on the liability duration and the investment objectives of that portfolio. where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity of available assets, as is the case with certain retirement and non-medical health products, the company may support such liabilities with equity investments or curve mismatch strategies. hedging activities. to reduce interest rate risk, metlife risk management strategies incorporate the use of various interest rate derivatives to adjust the overall duration and cash flow profile of its invested asset portfolios to better match the duration and cash flow profile of its liabilities. such instruments include financial futures, financial forwards, interest rate and credit default swaps, caps, floors and options. metlife also uses foreign currency swaps and forwards to hedge its foreign currency denominated fixed income investments. in 2004, metlife initiated a hedging strategy for certain equity price risks within its liabilities using equity futures and options. risk measurement: sensitivity analysis the company measures market risk related to its holdings of invested assets and other financial instruments, including certain market risk sensitive insurance contracts, based on changes in interest rates, equity market prices and currency exchange rates, utilizing a sensitivity analysis. this analysis estimates the potential changes in fair value, cash flows and earnings based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, equity market prices and currency exchange rates. the company believes that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the near-term. in performing this analysis, the company used market rates at december 31, 2006 to re-price its invested assets and other financial instruments. the sensitivity 166 table of contents analysis separately calculated each of metlife market risk exposures (interest rate, equity market price and foreign currency exchange rate) related to its trading and non-trading invested assets and other financial instruments. the sensitivity analysis performed included the market risk sensitive holdings described above. the company modeled the impact of changes in market rates and prices on the fair values of its invested assets, earnings and cash flows as follows: fair values. the company bases its potential change in fair values on an immediate change (increase or decrease) in: the net present values of its interest rate sensitive exposures resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates; the market value of its equity positions due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity prices; and the u.s. dollar equivalent balances of the company currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in currency exchange rates. earnings and cash flows. metlife calculates the potential change in earnings and cash flows on the change in its earnings and cash flows over a one-year period based on an immediate 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates and equity prices. the following factors were incorporated into the earnings and sensitivity analyses: the reinvestment of fixed maturity securities; the reinvestment of payments and prepayments of principal related to mortgage-backed securities; the re-estimation of prepayment rates on mortgage-backed securities for each 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates; and the expected turnover (sales) of fixed maturity and equity securities, including the reinvestment of the resulting proceeds. the sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as predictive of the company future financial performance. the company cannot assure that its actual losses in any particular year will not exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. limitations related to this sensitivity analysis include: the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgages; for derivatives that qualify as hedges, the impact on reported earnings may be materially different from the change in market values; the analysis excludes other significant real estate holdings and liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts; and the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains unchanged throughout the year. accordingly, the company uses such models as tools and not substitutes for the experience and judgment of its corporate risk and asset/liability management personnel. based on its analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and prices, metlife has determined that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the fair value of its interest rate sensitive invested assets. the equity and foreign currency portfolios do not expose the company to material market risk. the table below illustrates the potential loss in fair value of the company interest rate sensitive financial instruments at december 31, 2006. in addition, the potential loss with respect to the fair value of currency exchange rates and the company equity price sensitive positions at december 31, 2006 is set forth in the table below. the potential loss in fair value for each market risk exposure of the company portfolio was: december 31, 2006 (in millions) non-trading: interest rate risk $ 5,975 equity price risk $ 241 foreign currency exchange rate risk $ 690 trading: interest rate risk $ 25 167 table of contents the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in fair value of the company non-trading interest sensitive financial instruments by type of asset or liability: december 31, 2006 assuming a 10% increase notional estimated in the yield amount fair value curve (in millions) assets fixed maturity securities $ 243,428 $ (6,034 ) equity securities 5,131 mortgage and consumer loans 42,451 (733 ) policy loans 10,228 (307 ) short-term investments 2,709 (36 ) cash and cash equivalents 7,107 mortgage loan commitments $ 4,022 4 (12 ) commitments to fund bank credit facilities and bridge loans $ 1,908 total assets $ (7,122 ) liabilities policyholder account balances $ 108,318 $ 833 short-term debt 1,449 long-term debt 10,149 364 junior subordinated debt securities 3,759 60 shares subject to mandatory redemption 357 payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions 45,846 total liabilities $ 1,257 other derivative instruments (designated hedges or otherwise) interest rate swaps $ 27,148 $ 489 $ (37 ) interest rate floors 37,437 279 (100 ) interest rate caps 26,468 125 70 financial futures 8,432 25 84 foreign currency swaps 19,627 (188 ) (95 ) foreign currency forwards 2,934 4 (1 ) options 587 298 (31 ) financial forwards 3,800 (28 ) credit default swaps 6,357 (16 ) synthetic gics 3,739 other 250 56 total other $ (110 ) net change $ (5,975 ) this quantitative measure of risk has increased by $452 million, or 8%, at december 31, 2006, from $5,523 million at december 31, 2005. this change was due to an increase of $540 million due to an increase in the yield curve, an increase of $550 million due to asset growth and $72 million of other. these increases are partially offset by a decrease of $140 million due to growth in derivative usage and a decrease of $570 million due to a decline in asset duration. in addition to the analysis above, as part of its asset liability management program, the company also performs an analysis of the sensitivity to changes in interest rates, including both insurance liabilities and financial instruments. as of december 31, 2006, a hypothetical instantaneous 10% decrease in interest rates applied to the company liabilities, insurance and associated asset portfolios would reduce the fair value of equity by $350 million. management does not expect that this sensitivity would produce a liquidity strain on the company. 168 table of contentsrisk factors 27 risk factors changes in market interest rates may significantly affect our profitability some of our products, principally traditional whole life insurance, fixed annuities and gics, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our spread, or the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts in the company general account and the rate of return we are able to earn on general account investments intended to support obligations under the contracts. our spread is a key component of our net income. as interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, reducing our investment margin. moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the fixed-income securities, commercial mortgages and mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio with greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates, which exacerbates this risk. lowering interest crediting rates can help offset decreases in investment margins on some products. however, our ability to lower these rates could be limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. as a result, our spread could decrease or potentially become negative. our expectation for future spreads is an important component in the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs ( dac ) and value of business acquired ( voba ) and significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period. in addition, during periods of declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be relatively more attractive investments to consumers, resulting in increased premium payments on products with flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans and increased persistency, or a higher percentage of insurance policies remaining in force from year to year, during a period when our new investments carry lower returns. a decline in market interest rates could also reduce our return on investments that do not support particular policy obligations. accordingly, declining interest rates may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows and significantly reduce our profitability. our results in taiwan are highly sensitive to interest rates and other related assumptions because of the sustained low interest rate environment in taiwan coupled with long-term interest rate guarantees of approximately 6% embedded in the life and health contracts sold prior to 2003 and the lack of availability of long-duration assets in 27 table of contents the taiwanese capital markets to match such long-duration liabilities. during the fourth quarter of 2006, our taiwanese operation recorded a loss recognition adjustment (in the form of accelerated dac amortization) of $50 million, net of income tax, due, principally, to the continued low interest rate environment. the loss recognition testing that resulted in the charge during the fourth quarter of 2006 used a current best estimate of taiwanese interest rates of 2.1% rising to 3.5% over the next ten years and a corresponding increase in related lapse rates. if interest rates and related lapse assumptions do not improve, notwithstanding other actions we may take to reduce the impact, current estimates of future loss recognition of as much as $100 million, net of income tax, could be recognized in our results of operations in one or more future periods and additional capital may be required to be contributed to the taiwanese operation. the results of loss recognition testing for taiwan are inherently uncertain given the use of various assumptions and the long-term nature of the liability, and therefore, can only be reliably estimated within broad ranges which may vary significantly in future periods. increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect our profitability. in periods of rapidly increasing interest rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, the assets in the company general account with higher yielding assets needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep interest sensitive products competitive. we, therefore, may have to accept a lower spread and, thus, lower profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of existing contracts and related assets. in addition, policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals may tend to increase as policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns as interest rates rise. this process may result in cash outflows requiring that we sell invested assets at a time when the prices of those assets are adversely affected by the increase in market interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses. unanticipated withdrawals and terminations may cause us to accelerate the amortization of dac and voba, which would increase our current expenses and reduce net income. an increase in market interest rates could also have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the fair values of the fixed income securities that comprise a substantial portion of our investment portfolio. industry trends could adversely affect the profitability of our businesses our business segments continue to be influenced by a variety of trends that affect the insurance industry. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations industry trends. financial and economic environment. during 2007, the global capital markets reassessed the credit risk inherent in sub-prime mortgages. this reassessment led to a fairly broad repricing of all credit risk assets and strained market liquidity. global central banks intervened to stabilize market conditions and protect against downside risks to economic growth. still, market and economic conditions continued to deteriorate. the economic community consensus outlook of global economic growth is lower for calendar year 2008, with a sizable minority of economists forecasting a recessionary environment. the global capital markets have adjusted towards this consensus outlook, with interest rates and equity prices falling and risk spreads widening. slow growth and recessionary periods are often associated with declining asset prices, lower interest rates, credit rating agency downgrades and increasing default losses. the global capital markets are also less liquid now than in more normal environments. liquidity conditions impact the cost of purchasing and selling assets and, at times, the ability to purchase or sell assets. these adjustments in the global capital markets have also resulted in higher realized and expected volatility. as expectations for global economic growth are lowered, factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of the business we conduct. in an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. competitive pressures. the life insurance industry remains highly competitive. the product development and product life-cycles have shortened in many product segments, leading to more intense competition with respect to product features. larger companies have the ability to invest in brand equity, product development, technology 28 table of contents and risk management, which are among the fundamentals for sustained profitable growth in the life insurance industry. in addition, several of the industry products can be quite homogeneous and subject to intense price competition. sufficient scale, financial strength and financial flexibility are becoming prerequisites for sustainable growth in the life insurance industry. larger market participants tend to have the capacity to invest in additional distribution capability and the information technology needed to offer the superior customer service demanded by an increasingly sophisticated industry client base. see competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability and business competition. regulatory changes. the life insurance industry is regulated at the state level, with some products and services also subject to federal regulation. as life insurers introduce new and often more complex products, regulators refine capital requirements and introduce new reserving standards for the life insurance industry. regulations recently adopted or currently under review can potentially impact the reserve and capital requirements of the industry. in addition, regulators have undertaken market and sales practices reviews of several markets or products, including equity-indexed annuities, variable annuities and group products. see our insurance businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth and business regulation insurance regulation. pension plans. on august 17, 2006, president bush signed the ppa into law. the ppa is a comprehensive reform of defined benefit and defined contribution plan rules. while the impact of the ppa is generally expected to be positive over time, these changes may have adverse short-term effects on our business as plan sponsors may react to these changes in a variety of ways as the new rules and related regulations begin to take effect. a decline in equity markets or an increase in volatility in equity markets may adversely affect sales of our investment products and our profitability significant downturns and volatility in equity markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in three principal ways. first, market downturns and volatility may discourage purchases of separate account products, such as variable annuities, variable life insurance and mutual funds that have returns linked to the performance of the equity markets and may cause some of our existing customers to withdraw cash values or reduce investments in those products. second, downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a material adverse effect on the revenues and returns from our savings and investment products and services. because these products and services depend on fees related primarily to the value of assets under management, a decline in the equity markets could reduce our revenues by reducing the value of the investment assets we manage. the retail annuity business in particular is highly sensitive to equity markets, and a sustained weakness in the markets will decrease revenues and earnings in variable annuity products. third, we provide certain guarantees within some of our products that protect policyholders against significant downturns in the equity markets. for example, we offer variable annuity products with guaranteed features, such as minimum death and withdrawal benefits. these guarantees may be more costly than expected in volatile or declining equity market conditions, causing us to increase liabilities for future policy benefits, negatively affecting net income. adverse credit market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital, cost of capital and ability to meet liquidity needs disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit markets may limit our access to capital which is required to operate our business, most significantly our insurance operations. such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy statutory capital requirements; meet liquidity needs; and access the capital necessary to grow our business. as such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter tenors than we prefer, or pay unattractive interest rates; thereby, increasing our interest expense, decreasing our profitability and significantly reducing our financial flexibility. overall, our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. 29 table of contents the performance of our investments depends on conditions that are outside our control, and our net investment income can vary from period to period the performance of our investment portfolio depends in part upon the level of and changes in interest rates, risk spreads, equity prices, real estate values, foreign currency exchange rates, market volatility, the performance of the economy in general, the performance of the specific obligors included in our portfolio and other factors that are beyond our control. changes in these factors can affect our net investment income in any period, and such changes can be substantial. we invest a portion of our invested assets in pooled investment funds many of which make private equity investments. the amount and timing of income from such investment funds tends to be uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying investments, including private equity investments. the timing of distributions from the funds, which depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds schedules for making distributions and their needs for cash can be difficult to predict. as a result, the amount of income that we record from these investments can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. recent equity and credit market volatility may reduce investment income for these type of investments in the near term. competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability our business segments are subject to intense competition. we believe that this competition is based on a number of factors, including service, product features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, e-business capabilities and name recognition. we compete with a large number of other insurers, as well as non-insurance financial services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset managers, for individual consumers, employers and other group customers and agents and other distributors of insurance and investment products. some of these companies offer a broader array of products, have more competitive pricing or, with respect to other insurers, have higher claims paying ability ratings. some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete. national banks, which may sell annuity products of life insurers in some circumstances, also have pre-existing customer bases for financial services products. many of our insurance products, particularly those offered by our institutional segment, are underwritten annually, and, accordingly, there is a risk that group purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors rather than renewing coverage with us. the effect of competition may, as a result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell products in the future. in addition, the investment management and securities brokerage businesses have relatively few barriers to entry and continually attract new entrants. many of our competitors in these businesses offer a broader array of investment products and services and are better known than us as sellers of annuities and other investment products. see business competition. we may be unable to attract and retain sales representatives for our products we must attract and retain productive sales representatives to sell our insurance, annuities and investment products. strong competition exists among insurers for sales representatives with demonstrated ability. we compete with other insurers for sales representatives primarily on the basis of our financial position, support services and compensation and product features. we continue to undertake several initiatives to grow our career agency force while continuing to enhance the efficiency and production of our existing sales force. we cannot provide assurance that these initiatives will succeed in attracting and retaining new agents. sales of individual insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents. see business competition. differences between actual claims experience and underwriting and reserving assumptions may adversely affect our financial results our earnings significantly depend upon the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in setting prices for our products and establishing liabilities for future policy benefits and claims. our liabilities for future policy benefits and claims are established based on estimates by actuaries of how 30 table of contents much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims. for life insurance and annuity products, we calculate these liabilities based on many assumptions and estimates, including estimated premiums to be received over the assumed life of the policy, the timing of the event covered by the insurance policy, the amount of benefits or claims to be paid and the investment returns on the assets we purchase with the premiums we receive. we establish liabilities for property and casualty claims and benefits based on assumptions and estimates of damages and liabilities incurred. to the extent that actual claims experience is less favorable than the underlying assumptions we used in establishing such liabilities, we could be required to increase our liabilities. due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of liabilities for future policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely the amounts which we will ultimately pay to settle our liabilities. such amounts may vary from the estimated amounts, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future. we evaluate our liabilities periodically based on changes in the assumptions used to establish the liabilities, as well as our actual experience. we charge or credit changes in our liabilities to expenses in the period the liabilities are established or re-estimated. if the liabilities originally established for future benefit payments prove inadequate, we must increase them. such increases could affect earnings negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business management of operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events. we have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not be fully effective. many of our methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. as a result, these methods may not predict future exposures, which could be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate. other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. this information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. catastrophes may adversely impact liabilities for policyholder claims and reinsurance availability our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that causes a large number of deaths. significant influenza pandemics have occurred three times in the last century, but neither the likelihood, timing, nor the severity of a future pandemic can be predicted. the effectiveness of external parties, including governmental and non-governmental organizations, in combating the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have a material impact on the losses experienced by us. in our group insurance operations, a localized event that affects the workplace of one or more of our group insurance customers could cause a significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims. these events could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any period and, depending on their severity, could also materially and adversely affect our financial condition. our auto home business has experienced, and will likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses that may have a material adverse impact on the business, results of operations and financial condition of the auto home segment. although auto home makes every effort to manage our exposure to catastrophic risks through volatility management and reinsurance programs, these efforts do not eliminate all risk. catastrophes can be caused by various events, including pandemics, hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards), fires and man-made events such as terrorist attacks. historically, substantially all of our catastrophe-related claims have related to homeowners coverages. however, catastrophes may also affect other auto home coverages. due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence, timing and severity of catastrophes. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations impact of hurricanes and note 16 of notes to consolidated financial statements. 31 table of contents hurricanes and earthquakes are of particular note for our homeowners coverages. areas of major hurricane exposure include coastal sections of the northeastern united states (including lower new york, connecticut, rhode island and massachusetts), the gulf coast (including alabama, mississippi, louisiana and texas) and florida. we also have some earthquake exposure, primarily along the new madrid fault line in the central united states and in the pacific northwest. the extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however, pandemics, hurricanes, earthquakes and man-made catastrophes may produce significant damage in larger areas, especially those that are heavily populated. claims resulting from natural or man-made catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition. also, catastrophic events could harm the financial condition of our reinsurers and thereby increase the probability of default on reinsurance recoveries. our ability to write new business could also be affected. it is possible that increases in the value, caused by the effects of inflation or other factors, and geographic concentration of insured property, could increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we establish liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. we cannot be certain that the liabilities we have established will be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities. from time to time, states have passed legislation that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage risk, such as legislation restricting an insurer ability to withdraw from catastrophe-prone areas. while we attempt to limit our exposure to acceptable levels, subject to restrictions imposed by insurance regulatory authorities, a catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our ability to manage this risk and the profitability of our property and casualty and life insurance businesses depends in part on our ability to obtain catastrophe reinsurance, which may not be available at commercially acceptable rates in the future. see reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses. a downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could result in a loss of business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations financial strength ratings, which various nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ( nrsros ) publish as indicators of an insurance company ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations, are important to maintaining public confidence in our products, our ability to market our products and our competitive position. see business company ratings insurer financial strength ratings. downgrades in our financial strength ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including: reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other investment products; adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and independent sales intermediaries; materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders; requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and services to remain competitive; and adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices or at all. in addition to the financial strength ratings of the holding company insurance subsidiaries, various nrsros also publish credit ratings for metlife, inc. and several of its subsidiaries. credit ratings are indicators of a debt issuer ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner. see business company ratings credit ratings. a downgrade in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition 32 table of contents and results of operations in many ways, including increasing the cost of borrowing or adversely affecting our relationships with credit counterparties. rating agencies assign ratings based upon many factors, some of which relate to general economic conditions and circumstances outside of our control. in addition, rating agencies employ different models and methods to assess our financial strength and creditworthiness, and may alter these models and methods from time to time at their discretion. we cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. if our business does not perform well or if actual experience versus estimates used in valuing and amortizing dac and voba vary significantly, we may be required to accelerate the amortization and/or impair the dac and voba which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition we incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal business. those costs that vary with and are primarily related to the production of new and renewal business are deferred and referred to as dac. the recovery of dac is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. the amount of future profit is dependent principally on investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest crediting rates, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties and certain economic variables, such as inflation. of these factors, we anticipate that investment returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of such costs. the aforementioned factors enter into management estimates of gross profits, which generally are used to amortize such costs. if the estimates of gross profits were overstated, then the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to income. such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. voba reflects the estimated fair value of in-force contracts in a life insurance company acquisition and represents the portion of the purchase price that is allocated to the value of the right to receive future cash flows from the insurance and annuity contracts in-force at the acquisition date. voba is based on actuarially determined projections. actual experience may vary from the projections. revisions to estimates result in changes to the amounts expensed in the reporting period in which the revisions are made and could result in an impairment and a charge to income. also, as voba is amortized similarly to dac, an acceleration of the amortization of voba would occur if the estimates of gross profits were overstated. accordingly, the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period in which the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to net income. such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. defaults, downgrades or other events impairing the value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio may reduce our earnings we are subject to the risk that the issuers, or guarantors, of fixed maturity securities we own may default on principal and interest payments they owe us. at december 31, 2007, the fixed maturity securities of $242.2 billion in our investment portfolio represented 70.2% of our total cash and invested assets. the occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening risk spreads, or other events that adversely affect the issuers or guarantors of these securities could cause the value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio and our net income to decline and the default rate of the fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio to increase. a ratings downgrade affecting issuers or guarantors of particular securities could also have a similar effect. with economic uncertainty, credit quality of issuers or guarantors could be adversely affected. any event reducing the value of these securities other than on a temporary basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. defaults on our mortgage and consumer loans may adversely affect our profitability our mortgage and consumer loan investments face default risk. our mortgage and consumer loans are principally collateralized by commercial, agricultural and residential properties, as well as automobiles. at december 31, 2007, our mortgage and consumer loan investments of $47.0 billion represented 13.6% of our 33 table of contents total cash and invested assets. at december 31, 2007, loans that were either delinquent or in the process of foreclosure totaled less than 1% of our mortgage and consumer loan investments. the performance of our mortgage and consumer loan investments, however, may fluctuate in the future. in addition, substantially all of our mortgage loan investments have balloon payment maturities. an increase in the default rate of our mortgage and consumer loan investments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the valuation of investments may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition the fair values for public fixed maturity securities and public equity securities are based on quoted market prices or estimates from independent pricing services. however, in cases where quoted market prices are not available, such as for private fixed maturities, fair values are estimated using present value or valuation techniques. the determination of fair values in the absence of quoted market prices is based on: (i) valuation methodologies; (ii) securities we deem to be comparable; and (iii) assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances. the fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on available market information and judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. factors considered in estimating fair value include: coupon rate, maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer, and quoted market prices of comparable securities. the use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. during periods of market disruption including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates and/or rapidly widening credit spreads it may be difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. as such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation as well as valuation methods which are more sophisticated or require greater estimation thereby resulting in values which may be less than the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. significant period-to-period changes in value may also result. decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. some of our investments are relatively illiquid we hold certain investments that, even under normal market conditions, may lack liquidity, such as privately placed fixed maturity securities; complex structured products; mortgage and consumer loans; and equity real estate, including real estate joint ventures; other limited partnership interests, and certain pooled investment funds. these asset classes represented 28% of the carrying value of our total cash and invested assets as of december 31, 2007. under stressful capital market and economic conditions, liquidity broadly deteriorates increasing the price to purchase and sell assets and at times impacting the ability to purchase and sell assets. if we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal cash requirements, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize, or both. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and foreign securities markets could negatively affect our profitability we are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar resulting from our holdings of non-u.s. dollar denominated securities and investments in foreign subsidiaries. if the currencies of the non-u.s. dollar denominated securities we hold in our investment portfolios decline against the u.s. dollar, our investment returns, and thus our profitability, may be adversely affected. although we use foreign currency swaps and forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk, we cannot provide assurance that these methods will be effective or that our counterparties will perform their obligations. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. from time to time, various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies. our exposure to foreign exchange rate risk is exacerbated by our investments in emerging markets. 34 table of contents we have matched substantially all of our foreign currency liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with assets denominated in their respective foreign currency, which limits the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuation on local operating results; however, fluctuations in such rates affect the translation of these results into our consolidated financial statements. although we take certain actions to address this risk, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation could materially adversely affect our reported results due to unhedged positions or the failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that we do not face in our domestic operations. we face the risk of discriminatory regulation, nationalization or expropriation of assets, price controls and exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold into u.s. dollars or other currencies. some of our foreign insurance operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where these risks are heightened. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in addition, we rely on local sales forces in these countries and may encounter labor problems resulting from workers associations and trade unions in some countries. if our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training the sales force in that country. we are currently planning to expand our international operations in markets where we operate and in selected new markets. this may require considerable management time, as well as start-up expenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. operations in new foreign markets may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in existing markets may be affected by local economic and market conditions. therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not achieve expected operating margins and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. the business we acquired from travelers includes operations in several foreign countries, including australia, brazil, argentina, the united kingdom, belgium, poland, japan and hong kong. see business international. those operations, and operations in other new markets, are subject to the risks described above, as well as our unfamiliarity with the business, legal and regulatory environment in any of those countries. in recent years, the operating environment in argentina has been challenging. in argentina, we are principally engaged in the pension business. this business has incurred significant losses in recent years as a result of actions taken by the argentinean government in response to a sovereign debt crisis in december 2001. further governmental or legal actions related to pension reform could impact our obligations to our customers and could result in future losses in our argentinean operations. see also changes in market interest rates may significantly affect our profitability regarding the impact of low interest rates on our taiwanese operations. reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses as part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various business segments. see business reinsurance activity. while reinsurance agreements generally bind the reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured at generally fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new business. in certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for business already reinsured may also increase. any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to those policies we issue. 35 table of contents if the counterparties to our reinsurance or indemnification arrangements or to the derivative instruments we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations we use reinsurance, indemnification and derivative instruments to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. in general, reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers and indemnitors. we cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that indemnitors will honor their obligations now or in the future or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. a reinsurer or indemnitor insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of reinsurance agreements or indemnity agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various business risks. we enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments. if our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative instruments, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. such failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our insurance businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth our insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of insurance and other laws and regulations. state insurance laws regulate most aspects of our u.s. insurance businesses, and the holding company insurance subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled and the states in which they are licensed. our non-u.s. insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled and operate. see business regulation insurance regulation. state laws in the united states grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things: licensing companies and agents to transact business; calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements; mandating certain insurance benefits; regulating certain premium rates; reviewing and approving policy forms; regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution arrangements and payment of inducements; regulating advertising; protecting privacy; establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency standards; fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity contracts; approving changes in control of insurance companies; restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates; and regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments. state insurance guaranty associations have the right to assess insurance companies doing business in their state for funds to help pay the obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. because the 36 table of contents amount and timing of an assessment is beyond our control, the liabilities that we have currently established for these potential liabilities may not be adequate. see business regulation insurance regulation guaranty associations and similar arrangements. state insurance regulators and the naic regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the naic and several states legislatures have considered the need for regulations and/or laws to address agent or broker practices that have been the focus of investigations of broker compensation in the state of new york and in other jurisdictions. the naic adopted a compensation disclosure amendment to its producers licensing model act which, if adopted by the states, would require disclosure by agents or brokers to customers that insurers will compensate such agents or brokers for the placement of insurance and documented acknowledgement of this arrangement in cases where the customer also compensates the agent or broker. several states have enacted laws similar to the naic amendment. we cannot predict how many states may promulgate the naic amendment or alternative regulations or the extent to which these regulations may have a material adverse impact on our business. currently, the u.s. federal government does not directly regulate the business of insurance. however, federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies. these areas include financial services regulation, securities regulation, pension regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. in addition, various forms of direct federal regulation of insurance have been proposed. these proposals include the national insurance act of 2007, which would permit an optional federal charter for insurers. we cannot predict whether this or other proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our international operations are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they operate, which in many ways is similar to that of the state regulation outlined above. many of our customers and independent sales intermediaries also operate in regulated environments. changes in the regulations that affect their operations also may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or distribute our products. accordingly, these changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations or audits of the holding company subsidiaries that could, if determined adversely, have a material impact on us. we cannot predict whether or when regulatory actions may be taken that could adversely affect our operations. in addition, the interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements. litigation and regulatory investigations are increasingly common in our businesses and may result in significant financial losses and harm to our reputation we face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. our pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings specific to us and others generally applicable to business practices in the industries in which we operate. in connection with our insurance operations, plaintiffs lawyers may bring or are bringing class actions and individual suits alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product design, disclosure, administration, denial or delay of benefits and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers. plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, and the damages claimed and the amount of any probable and estimable liability, if any, may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. see legal proceedings and note 16 of notes to consolidated financial statements. 37 table of contents due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular points in time may be inherently impossible to ascertain with any degree of certainty. inherent uncertainties can include how fact finders will view individually and in their totality documentary evidence, the credibility and effectiveness of witnesses testimony, and how trial and appellate courts will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal. disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the relevant evidence and applicable law. on a quarterly and annual basis, we review relevant information with respect to liabilities for litigation, regulatory investigations and litigation-related contingencies to be reflected in our consolidated financial statements. the review includes senior legal and financial personnel. unless stated elsewhere herein, estimates of possible losses or ranges of loss for particular matters cannot in the ordinary course be made with a reasonable degree of certainty. see legal proceedings and note 16 of notes to consolidated financial statements. liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. liabilities have been established for a number of matters noted in legal proceedings and note 16 of notes to consolidated financial statements. it is possible that some of the matters could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures or establish accruals in amounts that could not be estimated as of december 31, 2007. mlic and metlife, inc. have been named as defendants in several lawsuits brought in connection with mlic demutualization in 2000. although most of these lawsuits have been dismissed, two have been certified as nationwide class action lawsuits. mlic and its affiliates also are currently defendants in hundreds of lawsuits raising allegations of improper marketing and sales of individual life insurance policies or annuities. these lawsuits are generally referred to as sales practices claims. in addition, mlic is a defendant in thousands of lawsuits seeking compensatory and punitive damages for personal injuries allegedly caused by exposure to asbestos or asbestos-containing products. these lawsuits principally have been based upon allegations relating to certain research, publication and other activities of one or more of mlic employees during the period from the 1920 through approximately the 1950 and have alleged that mlic learned or should have learned of certain health risks posed by asbestos and, among other things, improperly publicized or failed to disclose those health risks. additional litigation relating to these matters may be commenced in the future. the ability of mlic to estimate its ultimate asbestos exposure is subject to considerable uncertainty due to numerous factors. the availability of data is limited and it is difficult to predict with any certainty numerous variables that can affect liability estimates, including the number of future claims, the cost to resolve claims, the disease mix and severity of disease, the jurisdiction of claims filed, tort reform efforts and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts. the number of asbestos cases that may be brought or the aggregate amount of any liability that mlic may ultimately incur is uncertain. accordingly, it is reasonably possible that our total exposure to asbestos claims may be greater than the liability recorded by us in our consolidated financial statements and that future charges to income may be necessary. the potential future charges could be material in particular quarterly or annual periods in which they are recorded. we are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as information requests, subpoenas and books and record examinations, from state and federal regulators and other authorities. a substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. moreover, even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation, regulatory action or investigation, we could suffer significant reputational harm, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our ability to attract new customers, retain our current customers and recruit and retain employees. regulatory inquiries and litigation may cause volatility in the price of stocks of companies in our industry. we cannot give assurance that current claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and other proceedings against us will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. it is also possible that related or unrelated claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and proceedings may be commenced in the future, and we could become subject to further investigations and have lawsuits filed or enforcement actions initiated against us. in addition, increased regulatory 38 table of contents scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings could result in new legal actions and precedents and industry-wide regulations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in accounting standards issued by the financial accounting standards board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements our financial statements are subject to the application of gaap, which is periodically revised and/or expanded. accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the financial accounting standards board. it is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. changes in u.s. federal and state securities laws and regulations may affect our operations and our profitability federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to insurance products that are also securities, including variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies. as a result, some of metlife, inc. subsidiaries and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance contracts and policies are subject to extensive regulation under these securities laws. these subsidiaries issue variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies through separate accounts that are registered with the sec as investment companies under the investment company act. each registered separate account is generally divided into sub-accounts, each of which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is itself a registered investment company under the investment company act. in addition, the variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies issued by the separate accounts are registered with the sec under the securities act. other subsidiaries are registered with the sec as broker-dealers under the exchange act, and are members of, and subject to, regulation by finra. further, some of the holding company subsidiaries are registered as investment advisers with the sec under the investment advisers act, and are also registered as investment advisers in various states, as applicable. federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily intended to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect investors in the securities markets, as well as protect investment advisory or brokerage clients. these laws and regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with the securities laws and regulations. changes to these laws or regulations that restrict the conduct of our business could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in particular, changes in the regulations governing the registration and distribution of variable insurance products, such as changes in the regulatory standards for suitability of variable annuity contracts or variable life insurance policies, could have such a material adverse effect. changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to consumers; changes in tax laws, tax regulations, or interpretations of such laws or regulations could increase our corporate taxes changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to consumers. for example, reductions in the federal income tax that investors are required to pay on long-term capital gains and dividends paid on stock may provide an incentive for some of our customers and potential customers to shift assets away from some insurance company products, including life insurance and annuities, designed to defer taxes payable on investment returns. because the income taxes payable on long-term capital gains and some dividends paid on stock has been reduced, investors may decide that the tax-deferral benefits of annuity contracts are less advantageous than the potential after-tax income benefits of mutual funds or other investment products that provide dividends and long-term capital gains. a shift away from life insurance and annuity contracts and other tax-deferred products would reduce our income from sales of these products, as well as the assets upon which we earn investment income. we cannot predict whether any tax legislation impacting insurance products will be enacted, what the specific terms of any such legislation will be or whether, if at all, any legislation would have a material adverse effect on our 39 table of contents financial condition and results of operations. furthermore, changes in tax laws, tax regulations, or interpretations of such laws or regulations could increase our corporate taxes. state laws, federal laws, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and our stockholder rights plan may delay, deter or prevent takeovers and business combinations that stockholders might consider in their best interests state laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. for instance, they may prevent stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of metlife, inc. common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of metlife, inc. common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. any person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would face various regulatory obstacles which may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders of metlife, inc. might consider in their best interests. first, the insurance laws and regulations of the various states in which metlife, inc. insurance subsidiaries are organized may delay or impede a business combination involving us. state insurance laws prohibit an entity from acquiring control of an insurance company without the prior approval of the domestic insurance regulator. under most states statutes, an entity is presumed to have control of an insurance company if it owns, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of that insurance company or its parent company. federal banking authorities would also have to approve the indirect change of control of our banking operations. in addition, the investment company act would require approval by the contract owners of our variable contracts in order to effectuate a change of control of any affiliated investment adviser to a mutual fund underlying our variable contracts. finally, finra approval would be necessary for a change of control of any finra registered broker-dealer that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of metlife, inc. in addition, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law may affect the ability of an interested stockholder to engage in certain business combinations, including mergers, consolidations or acquisitions of additional shares, for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. an interested stockholder is defined to include persons owning, directly or indirectly, 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation. metlife, inc. certificate of incorporation and by-laws also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. these provisions may adversely affect prevailing market prices for metlife, inc. common stock and include: classification of metlife, inc. board of directors into three classes; a prohibition on the calling of special meetings by stockholders; advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates to the board of directors and stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; and supermajority voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation and by-laws. the stockholder rights plan adopted by metlife, inc. board of directors may also have anti-takeover effects. the stockholder rights plan is designed to protect metlife, inc. stockholders in the event of unsolicited offers to acquire us and other coercive takeover tactics which, in the opinion of metlife, inc. board of directors, could impair its ability to represent stockholder interests. the provisions of the stockholder rights plan may render an unsolicited takeover more difficult or less likely to occur or might prevent such a takeover, even though such takeover may offer metlife, inc. stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing market price and may be favored by a majority of metlife, inc. stockholders. as a holding company, metlife, inc. depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to transfer funds to it to meet its obligations and pay dividends metlife, inc. is a holding company for its insurance and financial subsidiaries and does not have any significant operations of its own. dividends from its subsidiaries and permitted payments to it under its tax sharing arrangements with its subsidiaries are its principal sources of cash to meet its obligations and to pay preferred and common dividends. if the cash the holding company receives from its subsidiaries is insufficient for it to fund its 40 table of contents debt service and other holding company obligations, the holding company may be required to raise cash through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of additional equity or the sale of assets. the payment of dividends and other distributions to the holding company by its insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. in general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits require insurance regulatory approval. in addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of dividends or other payments by its insurance subsidiaries to the holding company if they determine that the payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. see business regulation insurance regulation, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the holding company and note 18 of notes to consolidated financial statements. any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or advances by our foreign subsidiaries to the holding company could be subject to taxation or other restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdiction in which such foreign subsidiaries operate. see our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability. metlife, inc. board of directors may control the outcome of stockholder votes on many matters due to the voting provisions of the metlife policyholder trust under mlic plan of reorganization, as amended (the plan ), we established the metlife policyholder trust (the trust ) to hold the shares of metlife, inc. common stock allocated to eligible policyholders not receiving cash or policy credits under the plan. as of february 25, 2008, 258,577,341 shares, or 36.3%, of the outstanding shares of metlife, inc. common stock, are held in the trust. because of the number of shares held in the trust and the voting provisions of the trust, the trust may affect the outcome of matters brought to a stockholder vote. except on votes regarding certain fundamental corporate actions described below, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held in the trust in accordance with the recommendations given by metlife, inc. board of directors to its stockholders or, if the board gives no such recommendations, as directed by the board. as a result of the voting provisions of the trust, the board of directors may be able to control votes on matters submitted to a vote of stockholders, excluding those fundamental corporate actions, so long as the trust holds a substantial number of shares of common stock. if the vote relates to fundamental corporate actions specified in the trust, the trustee will solicit instructions from the trust beneficiaries and vote all shares held in the trust in proportion to the instructions it receives. these actions include: an election or removal of directors in which a stockholder has properly nominated one or more candidates in opposition to a nominee or nominees of metlife, inc. board of directors or a vote on a stockholder proposal to oppose a board nominee for director, remove a director for cause or fill a vacancy caused by the removal of a director by stockholders, subject to certain conditions; a merger or consolidation, a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the assets, or a recapitalization or dissolution, of metlife, inc., in each case requiring a vote of stockholders under applicable delaware law; any transaction that would result in an exchange or conversion of shares of common stock held by the trust for cash, securities or other property; and any proposal requiring metlife, inc. board of directors to amend or redeem the rights under the stockholder rights plan, other than a proposal with respect to which we have received advice of nationally-recognized legal counsel to the effect that the proposal is not a proper subject for stockholder action under delaware law. if a vote concerns any of these fundamental corporate actions, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held by the trust in proportion to the instructions it received, which will give disproportionate weight to the instructions actually given by trust beneficiaries. 41 table of contents we may need to fund deficiencies in our closed block; assets allocated to the closed block benefit only the holders of closed block policies the plan required that we establish and operate an accounting mechanism, known as a closed block, to ensure that the reasonable dividend expectations of policyholders who own certain individual insurance policies of mlic are met. see note 9 of notes to consolidated financial statements. we allocated assets to the closed block in an amount that will produce cash flows which, together with anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block, are reasonably expected to be sufficient to support obligations and liabilities relating to these policies, including, but not limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain expenses and tax, and to provide for the continuation of the policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999, if the experience underlying such scales continues, and for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience changes. we cannot provide assurance that the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block will be sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies. if they are not sufficient, we must fund the shortfall. even if they are sufficient, we may choose, for competitive reasons, to support policyholder dividend payments with our general account funds. the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies in the closed block will benefit only the holders of those policies. in addition, to the extent that these amounts are greater than the amounts estimated at the time the closed block was funded, dividends payable in respect of the policies included in the closed block may be greater than they would be in the absence of a closed block. any excess earnings will be available for distribution over time only to closed block policyholders. the continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may adversely affect the level of claim losses we incur and the value of our investment portfolio the continued threat of terrorism, both within the united states and abroad, ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility in global financial markets and result in loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. we cannot predict whether, and the extent to which, companies in which we maintain investments may suffer losses as a result of financial, commercial or economic disruptions, or how any such disruptions might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or principal on their securities. the continued threat of terrorism also could result in increased reinsurance prices and reduced insurance coverage and potentially cause us to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. terrorist actions also could disrupt our operations centers in the united states or abroad. in addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions could result in higher claims under our insurance policies than anticipated. the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning could impair our ability to conduct business effectively in the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an epidemic, an industrial accident, a blackout, a computer virus, a terrorist attack or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial position, particularly if those problems affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data. we depend heavily upon computer systems to provide reliable service. despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our servers could be subject to physical and electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. in addition, in the event that a significant number of our managers were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. these interruptions also may interfere with our suppliers ability to provide goods and services and our employees ability to perform their job responsibilities. 42 table of contents we face unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments arising from possible acquisitions and dispositions of businesses we have engaged in dispositions and acquisitions of businesses in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future. there could be unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments, including goodwill impairments, that arise in connection with the businesses that we may sell or the businesses that we may acquire in the future. in addition, there may be liabilities or asset impairments that we fail, or are unable, to discover in the course of performing due diligence investigations on each business that we have acquired or may acquire. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 176 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company must effectively manage, measure and monitor the market risk associated with its invested assets and interest rate sensitive insurance contracts. it has developed an integrated process for managing risk, which it conducts through its corporate risk management department, alm committees and additional specialists at the business segment level. the company has established and implemented comprehensive policies and procedures at both the corporate and business segment level to minimize the effects of potential market volatility. the company regularly analyzes its exposure to interest rate, equity market and foreign currency exchange risks. as a result of that analysis, the company has determined that the fair value of its interest rate sensitive invested assets is materially exposed to changes in interest rates. the equity and foreign currency portfolios do not expose the company to material market risks (as described below). metlife generally uses option adjusted duration to manage interest rate risk and the methods and assumptions used are generally consistent with those used by the company in 2006. the company analyzes interest rate risk using various models, including multi-scenario cash flow projection models that forecast cash flows of the liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivative instruments. the company uses a variety of strategies to manage interest rate, equity market, and foreign currency exchange risk, including the use of derivative instruments. market risk exposures the company has exposure to market risk through its insurance operations and investment activities. for purposes of this disclosure, market risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, equity market prices and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rates. the company exposure to interest rate changes results from its significant holdings of fixed maturity securities, as well as its interest rate sensitive liabilities. the fixed maturity securities include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds and mortgage-backed securities, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium- and long-term treasury rates. the interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include gics and annuities, which have the same type of interest rate exposure (medium- and long-term treasury rates) as fixed maturity securities. the company employs product design, pricing and asset/liability management strategies to reduce the adverse effects of interest rate movements. product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products. asset/liability management strategies include the use of derivatives, the purchase of securities structured to protect against prepayments, prepayment restrictions and related fees on mortgage loans and consistent monitoring of the pricing of the company products in order to better match the duration of the assets and the liabilities they support. see risk factors changes in market interest rates may significantly affect our profitability. equity market prices. the company investments in equity securities and equity-based fixed maturity securities expose it to changes in equity prices, as do certain liabilities that involve long-term guarantees on equity performance. it manages this risk on an integrated basis with other risks through its asset/liability management strategies. the company also manages equity market price risk through industry and issuer diversification, asset allocation techniques and the use of derivatives. foreign currency exchange rates. the company exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar results from its holdings in non-u.s. dollar denominated fixed maturity securities, equity securities and liabilities, as well as through its investments in foreign subsidiaries. the principal currencies that create foreign currency exchange rate risk in the company investment portfolios are the euro, the canadian dollar and the british pound. the company mitigates its fixed maturity securities foreign currency exchange rate risk through the utilization of foreign currency swaps and forward contracts. through its investments in foreign subsidiaries, the company is primarily exposed to the canadian dollar, the mexican peso, the australian dollar, the 176 table of contents argentinean peso, the south korean won, the chilean peso, the taiwanese dollar and the japanese yen. the company has matched substantially all of its foreign currency liabilities in its foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency assets, thereby reducing its risk to currency exchange rate fluctuation. selectively, the company uses u.s. dollar assets to support certain long duration foreign currency liabilities. additionally, in some countries, local surplus is held entirely or in part in u.s. dollar assets which further minimizes exposure to exchange rate fluctuation risk. risk management corporate risk management. metlife has established several financial and non-financial senior management committees as part of its risk management process. these committees manage capital and risk positions, approve asset/liability management strategies and establish appropriate corporate business standards. metlife also has a separate corporate risk management department, which is responsible for risk throughout metlife and reports to metlife chief financial officer. the corporate risk management department primary responsibilities consist of: implementing a board of directors-approved corporate risk framework, which outlines the company approach for managing risk on an enterprise-wide basis; developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring and monitoring those risks identified in the corporate risk framework; establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels; deploying capital on an economic capital basis; and reporting on a periodic basis to the governance committee of the holding company board of directors and various financial and non-financial senior management committees. asset/liability management. the company actively manages its assets using an approach that balances quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity and investment return. the goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income tax, risk-adjusted investment income and risk-adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are managed on a cash flow and duration basis. the asset/liability management process is the shared responsibility of the portfolio management unit, the financial management and oversight asset/liability management unit, and the operating business segments under the supervision of the various product line specific alm committees. the alm committees duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios on a periodic basis, establishing investment guidelines and limits and providing oversight of the asset/liability management process. the portfolio managers and asset sector specialists, who have responsibility on a day-to-day basis for risk management of their respective investing activities, implement the goals and objectives established by the alm committees. each of metlife business segments has an asset/liability officer who works with portfolio managers in the investment department to monitor investment, product pricing, hedge strategy and liability management issues. metlife establishes target asset portfolios for each major insurance product, which represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund its liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. these strategies are monitored through regular review of portfolio metrics, such as effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality. to manage interest rate risk, the company performs periodic projections of asset and liability cash flows to evaluate the potential sensitivity of its investments and liabilities to interest rate movements. these projections involve evaluating the potential gain or loss on most of the company in-force business under various increasing and decreasing interest rate environments. department regulations require that metlife perform some of these analyses annually as part of metlife review of the sufficiency of its regulatory reserves. for several of its legal entities, the company maintains segmented operating and surplus asset portfolios for the purpose of asset/liability management and the allocation of investment income to product lines. for each segment, invested assets greater than or equal to the gaap liabilities less the dac asset and any non-invested assets allocated to the segment are maintained, with any excess swept to the surplus segment. the operating segments may reflect differences in legal 177 table of contents entity, statutory line of business and any product market characteristic which may drive a distinct investment strategy with respect to duration, liquidity or credit quality of the invested assets. certain smaller entities make use of unsegmented general accounts for which the investment strategy reflects the aggregate characteristics of liabilities in those entities. the company measures relative sensitivities of the value of its assets and liabilities to changes in key assumptions utilizing company models. these models reflect specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting rates. in addition, these models include asset cash flow projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage prepayments and defaults. common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, are also used to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and liability values to changes in interest rates. in computing the duration of liabilities, consideration is given to all policyholder guarantees and to how the company intends to set indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or dividends. each asset portfolio has a duration constraint based on the liability duration and the investment objectives of that portfolio. where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity of available assets, as is the case with certain retirement and non-medical health products, the company may support such liabilities with equity investments or curve mismatch strategies. hedging activities. to reduce interest rate risk, metlife risk management strategies incorporate the use of various interest rate derivatives to adjust the overall duration and cash flow profile of its invested asset portfolios to better match the duration and cash flow profile of its liabilities. such instruments include financial futures, financial forwards, interest rate and credit default swaps, caps, floors and options. metlife also uses foreign currency swaps and forwards to hedge its foreign currency denominated fixed income investments. risk measurement: sensitivity analysis the company measures market risk related to its holdings of invested assets and other financial instruments, including certain market risk sensitive insurance contracts, based on changes in interest rates, equity market prices and currency exchange rates, utilizing a sensitivity analysis. this analysis estimates the potential changes in fair value based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, equity market prices and currency exchange rates. the company believes that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the near-term. in performing this analysis, the company used market rates at december 31, 2007 to re-price its invested assets and other financial instruments. the sensitivity analysis separately calculated each of metlife market risk exposures (interest rate, equity market price and foreign currency exchange rate) related to its trading and non-trading invested assets and other financial instruments. the sensitivity analysis performed included the market risk sensitive holdings described above. the company modeled the impact of changes in market rates and prices on the fair values of its invested assets as follows: the net present values of its interest rate sensitive exposures resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates; the market value of its equity positions due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity prices; and the u.s. dollar equivalent balances of the company currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in currency exchange rates. the sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as predictive of the company future financial performance. the company cannot assure that its actual losses in any particular year will not exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. limitations related to this sensitivity analysis include: the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgages; for derivatives that qualify as hedges, the impact on reported earnings may be materially different from the change in market values; the analysis excludes other significant real estate holdings and liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts; and the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains unchanged throughout the year. 178 table of contents accordingly, the company uses such models as tools and not substitutes for the experience and judgment of its corporate risk and asset/liability management personnel. based on its analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and prices, metlife has determined that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the fair value of its interest rate sensitive invested assets. the equity and foreign currency portfolios do not expose the company to material market risk. the table below illustrates the potential loss in fair value of the company interest rate sensitive financial instruments at december 31, 2007. in addition, the potential loss with respect to the fair value of currency exchange rates and the company equity price sensitive positions at december 31, 2007 is set forth in the table below. the potential loss in fair value for each market risk exposure of the company portfolio at december 31, 2007 was: december 31, 2007 (in millions) non-trading: interest rate risk $ 5,170 equity price risk $ 96 foreign currency exchange rate risk $ 711 trading: interest rate risk $ 18 179 table of contents the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in fair value of the company non-trading interest sensitive financial instruments at december 31, 2007 by type of asset or liability: december 31, 2007 assuming a 10% increase notional estimated in the yield amount fair value curve (in millions) assets fixed maturity securities $ 242,242 $ (5,177 ) equity securities 6,050 mortgage and consumer loans 47,599 (594 ) policy loans 10,419 (235 ) short-term investments 2,648 (15 ) cash and cash equivalents 10,368 mortgage loan commitments $ 4,035 (43 ) (50 ) commitments to fund bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments $ 1,196 (59 ) total assets $ (6,071 ) liabilities policyholder account balances $ 114,466 $ 840 short-term debt 667 long-term debt 9,532 307 collateral financing arrangements 5,365 junior subordinated debt securities 4,338 136 shares subject to mandatory redemption 178 payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions 44,136 total liabilities $ 1,283 other derivative instruments (designated hedges or otherwise) interest rate swaps $ 62,519 $ 17 $ (132 ) interest rate floors 48,937 621 (47 ) interest rate caps 45,498 50 33 financial futures 10,817 32 (41 ) foreign currency swaps 21,399 (244 ) (97 ) foreign currency forwards 4,185 60 options 2,043 712 (93 ) financial forwards 4,600 120 (5 ) credit default swaps 6,850 23 (1 ) synthetic gics 3,670 other 250 43 1 total other $ (382 ) net change $ (5,170 ) this quantitative measure of risk has decreased by $805 million, or 13%, to $5,170 million at december 31, 2007 from $5,975 million at december 31, 2006. a decrease in the yield curve has decreased our sensitivity by $1.5 billion. this decrease was partially offset by $140 million due to increased asset size, $270 million due to increased derivative usage and $285 million due to duration charges and other. in addition to the analysis above, as part of its asset liability management program, the company also performs an analysis of the sensitivity to changes in interest rates, including both insurance liabilities and financial instruments. as of december 31, 2007, a hypothetical instantaneous 10% decrease in interest rates applied to the company liabilities, insurance and associated asset portfolios would reduce the fair value of equity by $12 million. management does not expect that this sensitivity would produce a liquidity strain on the company. 180 table of contentsrisk factors 31 risk factors adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital the capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. at times, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. in some cases, the markets have exerted downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers. we need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock, maintain our securities lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities. without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our operations, and our business will suffer. the principal sources of our liquidity are insurance premiums, annuity considerations, deposit funds, cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash. sources of liquidity in normal markets also include short-term instruments such as repurchase agreements and commercial paper. sources of capital in normal markets include long-term instruments, medium- and long-term debt, junior subordinated debt securities, capital securities and equity securities. in the event current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing. the availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreased due to a market downturn. similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. our liquidity requirements may change. for instance, we have funding agreements which can be put to us after a period of notice. the notice requirements vary; however, the shortest period is 90 days, applicable to approximately $1 billion of such liabilities at december 31, 2008. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business, most significantly our insurance operations. such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy statutory capital requirements; and access the capital necessary to grow our business. as such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue different types of capital than we would otherwise, less effectively deploy such capital, issue shorter tenor securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. recently our credit spreads have widened considerably. our results of operations, financial condition, 31 table of contents cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations and these conditions may not improve in the near future our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the united states and elsewhere around the world. the stress experienced by global capital markets that began in the second half of 2007 continued and substantially increased during 2008. concerns over the availability and cost of credit, the u.s. mortgage market, geopolitical issues, energy costs, inflation and a declining real estate market in the united states contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets in the near term. these factors, combined with declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated a recession. in addition, the fixed-income markets have experienced a period of extreme volatility which negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. initially, the concerns on the part of market participants were focused on the sub-prime segment of the mortgage-backed securities market. however, these concerns expanded to include a broad range of mortgage- and asset-backed and other fixed income securities, including those rated investment grade, the u.s. and international credit and interbank money markets generally, and a wide range of financial institutions and markets, asset classes and sectors. securities that are less liquid are more difficult to value and have less opportunity for disposal. domestic and international equity markets have also experienced heightened volatility and turmoil, with issuers (such as our company) that have exposure to the real estate, mortgage and credit markets particularly affected. these events and continued market upheavals may have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and are also dependent upon customer behavior. our revenues are likely to decline in such circumstances and our profit margins could erode. in addition, in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur significant losses. even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources extraordinary market conditions. we are a significant writer of variable annuity products. the account values of these products will be affected by the downturn in capital markets. any decrease in account values will decrease the fees generated by our variable annuity products, cause the amortization of deferred acquisition costs to accelerate and may increase the level of reserves we must carry to support those variable annuities issued with any associated guarantees. factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. in an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. in addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the current crisis has also raised the possibility of future legislative and regulatory actions in addition to the recent enactment of the emergency economic stabilization act of 2008 (the eesa ) that could further impact our business. we cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur, or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. see there can be no assurance that actions of the u.s. government, federal reserve bank of new york and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will achieve the intended effect and competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability. there can be no assurance that actions of the u.s. government, federal reserve bank of new york and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will achieve the intended effect in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, on october 3, 2008, president bush signed the eesa into law. 32 table of contents pursuant to the eesa, the u.s. treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgage-backed and other securities from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets. at december 31, 2008, $250 billion of this amount had been dedicated to making capital infusions to banking institutions and their holding companies. the federal government, federal reserve bank of new york, the federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis. for example, the federal reserve bank of new york has been making funds available to commercial and financial companies under a number of programs, including the commercial paper funding facility and the fdic temporary liquidity guarantee program (the fdic program ), as discussed further below, and legislation is pending in congress that will allow bankruptcy judges in certain bankruptcy proceedings to alter the terms of certain mortgages, including reducing the principal amount of the loan. there can be no assurance as to what impact such actions will have on the financial markets, whether on the levels of volatility currently being experienced, the levels of lending by financial institutions, the prices buyers are willing to pay for financial assets or otherwise. continued volatility, low levels of credit availability and low prices for financial assets materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. furthermore, if the mortgage-related legislation is passed, it could cause loss of principal on certain of our nonagency prime residential mortgage backed security holdings and could cause a ratings downgrade in such holdings which, in turn, would cause an increase in unrealized losses on such securities. see we are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and our net investment income can vary from period to period. finally, the choices made by the u.s. treasury in its distribution of amounts available under the eesa could have the effect of supporting some parts of the financial system more than others. see competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability. metlife, inc. and some or all of its affiliates may be eligible to sell assets to the u.s. treasury under one or more of the programs established under eesa, and some of their assets may be among those the u.s. treasury offers to purchase, either directly or through auction. furthermore, as a bank holding company, metlife, inc. could be selected to participate in the u.s. treasury capital infusion program, pursuant to which the u.s. treasury purchases preferred shares of banking institutions or their holding companies and acquires warrants for their common shares. if we choose to participate in the capital infusion program of the u.s. treasury, we will become subject to requirements and restrictions on our business. issuing preferred shares and warrants could dilute the ownership interests of stockholders or affect our ability to raise capital in other transactions. we will also become subject to restrictions on the compensation that we can offer or pay to certain executive employees, including incentives or performance-based compensation. these restrictions could hinder or prevent us from attracting and retaining management with the talent and experience to manage our business effectively. limits on our ability to deduct certain compensation paid to executive employees will also be imposed. the remaining $350 billion authorized by the eesa has been made available to the u.s. treasury. congress and the current administration are considering the imposition of additional requirements and conditions on the use of these additional funds. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources extraordinary market conditions. on december 5, 2008, metlife, inc. elected to continue to participate in the debt guarantee component of the fdic program. under the terms of the fdic program, the fdic will guarantee through june 2012 (or maturity, if earlier) the payment of certain newly-issued senior unsecured debt of metlife, inc. and any eligible affiliates. we also notified the fdic that we have elected the option of excluding specified senior unsecured debt maturing after june 30, 2012, from the guarantee before reaching the limits on the amount of guaranteed debt under the fdic program ($398 million for metlife, inc. and $178 million for its affiliate, metlife bank, n.a., which may issue guaranteed debt under its limit, as well as unused amounts under metlife, inc. limit). in addition, we opted out of the component of the fdic program that guarantees non-interest bearing deposit transaction accounts. we cannot predict how the markets may react to these elections or to any debt issued subject to the terms of the fdic program. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources extraordinary market conditions. 33 table of contents the impairment of other financial institutions could adversely affect us we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge funds and other investment funds and other institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. in addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. we also have exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments, non-redeemable and redeemable preferred securities, derivative transactions and equity investments. further, potential action by governments and regulatory bodies in response to the financial crisis affecting the global banking system and financial markets, such as investment, nationalization and other intervention, could negatively impact these instruments, securities, transactions and investments. there can be no assurance that any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these assets would not materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. our participation in a securities lending program subjects us to potential liquidity and other risks we participate in a securities lending program whereby blocks of securities, which are included in fixed maturity securities and short-term investments, are loaned to third parties, primarily major brokerage firms and commercial banks. we generally require collateral equal to 102% of the current estimated fair value of the loaned securities to be obtained at the inception of a loan, and maintained at a level greater than or equal to 100% for the duration of the loan. during the extraordinary market events occurring in the fourth quarter of 2008, we, in limited instances, accepted collateral less than 102% at the inception of certain loans, but never less than 100%, of the estimated fair value of such loaned securities. these loans involved u.s. government treasury bills which we considered to have limited variation in their estimated fair value during the term of the loan. securities with a cost or amortized cost of $20.8 billion and $41.1 billion and an estimated fair value of $22.9 billion and $42.1 billion were on loan under the program at december 31, 2008 and december 31, 2007, respectively. securities loaned under such transactions may be sold or repledged by the transferee. we were liable for cash collateral under our control of $23.3 billion and $43.3 billion at december 31, 2008 and december 31, 2007, respectively. returns of loaned securities by the third parties would require us to return the cash collateral associated with such loaned securities. in addition, in some cases, the maturity of the securities held as invested collateral (i.e., securities that we have purchased with cash received from the third parties) may exceed the term of the related securities on loan and the estimated fair value may fall below the amount of cash received as collateral and invested. if we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral on short notice and we are forced to sell securities to meet the return obligation, we may have difficulty selling such collateral that is invested in securities in a timely manner, be forced to sell securities in a volatile or illiquid market for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize under normal market conditions, or both. in addition, under stressful capital market and economic conditions, such as those conditions we have experienced recently, liquidity broadly deteriorates, which may further restrict our ability to sell securities. of this $23.3 billion of cash collateral at december 31, 2008, $5.1 billion was on open terms, meaning that the related loaned security could be returned to us on the next business day requiring return of cash collateral and the following amounts are due within 30 days, and 60 days $14.7 billion and $3.5 billion, respectively. the estimated fair value of the securities related to the cash collateral on open at december 31, 2008 has been reduced to $5.0 billion from $15.8 billion as of november 30, 2008. of the $5.0 billion of estimated fair value of the securities related to the cash collateral on open at december 31, 2008, $4.4 billion were u.s. treasury and agency securities which, if put to us, can be immediately sold to satisfy the cash requirements. the remainder of the securities on loan are primarily u.s. treasury and agency securities, and very liquid residential mortgage-backed securities. within the u.s. treasury securities on loan, they are primarily holdings of on-the-run u.s. treasury securities, the most liquid u.s. treasury securities available. if these high quality securities that are on loan are put back to us, the proceeds from immediately selling these securities can be used to satisfy the related cash requirements. the estimated fair value of the reinvestment portfolio acquired with the cash collateral was $19.5 billion at december 31, 2008, and consisted principally of fixed maturity securities (including residential mortgage-backed, asset-backed, u.s. corporate and foreign corporate securities). if the on loan securities or the 34 table of contents reinvestment portfolio become less liquid, we have the liquidity resources of most of our general account available to meet any potential cash demand when securities are put back to us. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments securities lending. if we decrease the amount of our securities lending activities over time, the amount of income generated by these activities will also likely decline. we are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and our net investment income can vary from period to period we are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, market volatility, the performance of the economy in general, the performance of the specific obligors included in our portfolio and other factors outside our control. our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates. a rise in interest rates will increase the net unrealized loss position of our fixed income investment portfolio and, if long-term interest rates rise dramatically within a six to twelve month time period, certain of our life insurance businesses may be exposed to disintermediation risk. disintermediation risk refers to the risk that our policyholders may surrender their contracts in a rising interest rate environment, requiring us to liquidate fixed income investments in an unrealized loss position. due to the long-term nature of the liabilities associated with certain of our life insurance businesses, guaranteed benefits on variable annuities, and structured settlements, sustained declines in long-term interest rates may subject us to reinvestment risks and increased hedging costs. in other situations, declines in interest rates may result in increasing the duration of certain life insurance liabilities, creating asset liability duration mismatches. our investment portfolio also contains interest rate sensitive instruments, such as fixed income securities, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates from governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. a rise in interest rates would increase the net unrealized loss position of our fixed income investment portfolio, offset by our ability to earn higher rates of return on funds reinvested. conversely, a decline in interest rates would decrease the net unrealized loss position of our fixed income investment portfolio, offset by lower rates of return on funds reinvested. our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are primarily focused towards maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration that is approximately equal to the duration of our estimated liability cash flow profile. however, our estimate of the liability cash flow profile may be inaccurate and we may be forced to liquidate fixed income investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to cover the liability. although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our fixed income investments relative to our liabilities. see also changes in market interest rates may significantly affect our profitability. our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads. a widening of credit spreads will increase the net unrealized loss position of the fixed income investment portfolio, will increase losses associated with credit based non-qualifying derivatives where we assume credit exposure, and, if issuer credit spreads increase significantly or for an extended period of time, would likely result in higher other-than-temporary impairments. credit spread tightening will reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed maturity securities. in addition, market volatility can make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent. as such, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period to period changes which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. credit spreads on both corporate and structured securities widened during 2008, resulting in continuing depressed pricing. continuing challenges include continued weakness in the u.s. real estate market and increased mortgage delinquencies, investor anxiety over the u.s. economy, rating agency downgrades of various structured products and financial issuers, unresolved issues with structured investment vehicles and monoline financial guarantee insurers, deleveraging of financial institutions and hedge funds and a serious dislocation in the inter-bank market. if significant, continued volatility, changes in interest rates, changes in credit spreads and defaults, a lack of pricing transparency, market liquidity, declines in equity prices, and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of 35 table of contents operations, financial condition or cash flows through realized losses, impairments, and changes in unrealized positions. our primary exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with certain of our insurance businesses, such as variable annuities, where fee income is earned based upon the estimated fair value of the assets under management. in addition, certain of our annuity products offer guaranteed benefits which increase our potential benefit exposure should equity markets decline. we are also exposed to interest rate and equity risk based upon the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return assumptions associated with our pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations. sustained declines in long-term interest rates or equity returns likely would have a negative effect on the funded status of these plans. our exposure to real estate risk relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in real estate markets, default and bankruptcy rates, geographic and sector concentration as well as illiquidity of real estate investments. the current economic environment has led to significant weakening of the residential and commercial real estate markets, increases in foreclosures, bankruptcies and unsuccessful development projects as well as limited access to credit. our real estate investments, including those held by joint ventures and real estate funds, may be negatively impacted by weakened local real estate conditions, such as oversupply, reduced demand and the availability and creditworthiness of current and prospective tenants and borrowers. in addition, real estate investments are relatively illiquid, and could limit our ability, and that of our joint venture partners and real estate fund managers, to sell assets to respond to changing economic, financial and investment conditions. also, these factors could impact mortgage and consumer loan fundamentals which are further discussed under defaults on our mortgage and consumer loans and volatility in performance may adversely affect our profitability. these factors and others beyond our control could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows through net investment income, realized losses and impairments. our primary foreign currency exchange risks are described under fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and foreign securities markets could negatively affect our profitability. significant declines in equity prices, changes in u.s. interest rates, changes in credit spreads, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. changes in these factors, which are significant risks to us, can affect our net investment income in any period, and such changes can be substantial. we invest a portion of our invested assets in leveraged buy-out funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds reported within other limited partnerships, many of which make private equity investments. the amount and timing of net investment income from such investment funds tends to be uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying investments, including private equity investments. the timing of distributions from the funds, which depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds schedules for making distributions and their needs for cash, can be difficult to predict. as a result, the amount of net investment income that we record from these investments can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. recent equity, real estate and credit market volatility have further reduced net investment income and related yields for these types of investments and we may continue to experience reduced net investment income due to continued volatility in the equity, real estate and credit markets in 2009. in addition, due to the normal lag in the preparation of and then receipt of periodic financial statements from other limited partnership interests and real estate joint ventures and funds, results from late 2008 during periods of volatility will be reported to us in 2009. our requirements to pledge collateral or make payments related to declines in value of specified assets may adversely affect our liquidity and expose us to counterparty credit risk many of our transactions with financial and other institutions specify the circumstances under which the parties are required to pledge collateral related to any decline in the value of the specified assets. in addition, under the terms of some of our transactions, we may be required to make payments to our counterparties related to any decline in the value of the specified assets. the amount of collateral we may be required to pledge and the payments we may be required to make under these agreements may increase under certain circumstances, which could adversely affect our liquidity. 36 table of contents in december 2007, we entered into an agreement with an unaffiliated financial institution that referenced $2.5 billion of 35-year surplus notes issued by metlife reinsurance company of charleston ( mrc ). based on the decline in the estimated fair value of mrc surplus notes, we have pledged collateral and made payments to the unaffiliated financial institution. we may in the future be required to pledge additional collateral or make additional payments to this unaffiliated financial institution based on any further declines in the estimated fair value of mrc surplus notes. any collateral pledged by us under the agreement is required to be held in a segregated account and remains on our balance sheet. any payments to the unaffiliated financial institution may reduce the amount under the agreement on which our interest payment was due but may not reduce the principal amount of the surplus notes. such payments have been accounted for as a receivable and will not be realized until the termination of the agreement with the unaffiliated financial institution. furthermore, with respect to any such payments, we have unsecured risk to the unaffiliated financial institution as these amounts are not required to be held in a third-party custodial account or segregated from the unaffiliated financial institution funds. such collateral pledged and payments could have an adverse effect on our liquidity. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital uses collateral financing arrangements and note 11 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. our statutory reserve financings may be subject to cost increases and new financings may be subject to limited market capacity to support our level premium term life and universal life with secondary guarantees businesses and mlic closed block, we currently utilize capital markets solutions for financing a portion of our statutory reserve requirements. while we have financing facilities in place for our previously written business and have remaining capacity in existing facilities to support writings through the end of 2009 or later, certain of these facilities are subject to cost increases upon the occurrence of specified ratings downgrades of metlife or are subject to periodic repricing. any resulting cost increases could negatively impact our financial results. further, the capacity for these reserve funding structures available in the current marketplace is limited. if capacity continues to be limited for a prolonged period of time, our ability to obtain new funding for these structures may be hindered, and as a result, our ability to write additional business in a cost effective manner may be impacted. defaults on our mortgage and consumer loans and volatility in performance may adversely affect our profitability our mortgage and consumer loans face default risk and are principally collateralized by commercial, agricultural and residential properties, as well as automobiles. the carrying value of mortgage and consumer loans is stated at original cost net of repayments, amortization of premiums, accretion of discounts and valuation allowances, except for residential mortgage loans held-for-sale accounted for under the fair value option which are carried at estimated fair value, as determined on a recurring basis and certain commercial and residential mortgage loans carried at the lower of cost or estimated fair value, as determined on a nonrecurring basis. we establish valuation allowances for estimated impairments as of the balance sheet date. such valuation allowances are based on the excess carrying value of the loan over the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan original effective interest rate, the value of the loan collateral if the loan is in the process of foreclosure or otherwise collateral dependent, or the loan estimated fair value if the loan is held-for-sale. we also establish allowances for loan losses when a loss contingency exists for pools of loans with similar characteristics, such as mortgage loans based on similar property types or loan to value risk factors. at december 31, 2008, loans that were either delinquent or in the process of foreclosure totaled less than 0.5% of our mortgage and consumer loan investments. the performance of our mortgage and consumer loan investments, however, may fluctuate in the future. in addition, substantially all of our mortgage loans held-for-investment have balloon payment maturities. an increase in the default rate of our mortgage and consumer loan investments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments mortgage and consumer loans. further, any geographic or sector concentration of our mortgage or consumer loans may have adverse effects on our investment portfolios and consequently on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. 37 table of contents while we seek to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated. moreover, our ability to sell assets relating to such particular groups of related assets may be limited if other market participants are seeking to sell at the same time. in addition, legislative proposals that would allow or require modifications to the terms of mortgage loans could be enacted. we cannot predict whether these proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business or investments. our investments are reflected within the consolidated financial statements utilizing different accounting basis and accordingly we may not have recognized differences, which may be significant, between cost and estimated fair value in our consolidated financial statements our principal investments are in fixed maturity and equity securities, trading securities, short-term investments, mortgage and consumer loans, policy loans, real estate, real estate joint ventures and other limited partnerships and other invested assets. the carrying value of such investments is as follows: fixed maturity and equity securities are classified as available-for-sale, except for trading securities, and are reported at their estimated fair value. unrealized investment gains and losses on these securities are recorded as a separate component of other comprehensive income (loss), net of policyholder related amounts and deferred income taxes. trading securities are recorded at estimated fair value with subsequent changes in estimated fair value recognized in net investment income. short-term investments include investments with remaining maturities of one year or less, but greater than three months, at the time of acquisition and are stated at amortized cost, which approximates estimated fair value. the carrying value of mortgage and consumer loans is stated at original cost net of repayments, amortization of premiums, accretion of discounts and valuation allowances, except for residential mortgage loans held-for-sale accounted for under the fair value option which are carried at estimated fair value, as determined on a recurring basis and certain commercial and residential mortgage loans carried at the lower of cost or estimated fair value, as determined on a nonrecurring basis. policy loans are stated at unpaid principal balances. real estate held-for-investment, including related improvements, is stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation. real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests in which we have more than a minor equity interest or more than a minor influence over the joint ventures or partnership operations, but where we do not have a controlling interest and are not the primary beneficiary, are carried using the equity method of accounting. we use the cost method of accounting for investments in real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests in which it has a minor equity investment and virtually no influence over the joint ventures or the partnership operations. other invested assets consist principally of freestanding derivatives with positive estimated fair values and leveraged leases. freestanding derivatives are carried at estimated fair value with changes in estimated fair value reflected in income for both non-qualifying derivatives and derivatives in fair value hedging relationships. derivatives in cash flow hedging relationships are reflected as a separate component of other comprehensive income (loss). leveraged leases are recorded net of non-recourse debt. investments not carried at estimated fair value in our consolidated financial statements principally, mortgage and consumer loans held-for-investment, policy loans, real estate, real estate joint ventures, other limited partnerships and leveraged leases may have estimated fair values which are substantially higher or lower than the carrying value reflected in our consolidated financial statements. each of such asset classes is regularly evaluated for impairment under the accounting guidance appropriate to the respective asset class. 38 table of contents our valuation of fixed maturity, equity and trading securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition fixed maturity, equity, trading securities and short-term investments which are reported at estimated fair value on the consolidated balance sheet represent the majority of our total cash and invested assets. we have categorized these securities into a three-level hierarchy, based on the priority of the inputs to the respective valuation technique. the fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (level 3). an asset or liability classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of significant input to its valuation. sfas 157 defines the input levels as follows: level 1 unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. we define active markets based on average trading volume for equity securities. the size of the bid/ask spread is used as an indicator of market activity for fixed maturity securities. level 2 quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly. level 2 inputs include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities other than quoted prices in level 1; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. level 3 unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. unobservable inputs reflect the reporting entity own assumptions about the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments whose values are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation. at december 31, 2008, 11%, 80% and 9% of these securities represented level 1, level 2 and level 3, respectively. the level 1 securities primarily consist of certain u.s. treasury and agency fixed maturity securities; exchange-traded common stock, and certain short-term investments. the level 2 assets include fixed maturity securities priced principally through independent pricing services using observable inputs. these fixed maturity securities include most u.s. treasury and agency securities as well as the majority of u.s. and foreign corporate securities, residential mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities, state and political subdivision securities, foreign government securities, and asset-backed securities. equity securities classified as level 2 primarily consist principally of non-redeemable preferred securities and certain equity securities where market quotes are available but are not considered actively traded and are priced by independent pricing services. management reviews the valuation methodologies used by the independent pricing services on an ongoing basis and ensures that any changes to valuation methodologies are justified. level 3 assets include fixed maturity securities priced principally through independent non-binding broker quotations or market standard valuation methodologies using inputs that are not market observable or cannot be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. this level consists of less liquid fixed maturity securities with very limited trading activity or where less price transparency exists around the inputs to the valuation methodologies including: u.s. and foreign corporate securities including below investment grade private placements; residential mortgage-backed securities; and asset backed securities including all of those supported by sub-prime mortgage loans. equity securities classified as level 3 securities consist principally of common stock of privately held companies and non-redeemable preferred securities where there has been very limited trading activity or where less price transparency exists around the inputs to the valuation. see note 24 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for the estimated fair values of these assets and liabilities by hierarchy level. prices provided by independent pricing services and independent non-binding broker quotations can vary widely even for the same security. 39 table of contents the determination of estimated fair values by management in the absence of quoted market prices is based on: (i) valuation methodologies; (ii) securities we deem to be comparable; and (iii) assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances. the fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on available market information and judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. factors considered in estimating fair value include: coupon rate, maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer, and quoted market prices of comparable securities. the use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. during periods of market disruption including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities, for example alt-a and sub-prime mortgage-backed securities and commercial mortgage-backed securities, if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. there may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the current financial environment. in such cases, more securities may fall to level 3 and thus require more subjectivity and management judgment. as such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation as well as valuation methods which are more sophisticated or require greater estimation thereby resulting in values which may be greater or less than the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in value could vary significantly. decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. some of our investments are relatively illiquid and are in asset classes that have been experiencing significant market valuation fluctuations we hold certain investments that may lack liquidity, such as privately placed fixed maturity securities; mortgage and consumer loans; policy loans and leveraged leases; equity real estate, including real estate joint ventures; and other limited partnership interests. these asset classes represented 33.7% of the carrying value of our total cash and invested assets at december 31, 2008. even some of our very high quality assets have been more illiquid as a result of the recent challenging market conditions. if we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal cash requirements or are required to post or return collateral in connection with our investment portfolio, derivatives transactions or securities lending activities, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize, or both. the reported value of our relatively illiquid types of investments, our investments in the asset classes described above and, at times, our high quality, generally liquid asset classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest current market price for the asset. if we were forced to sell certain of our assets in the current market, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded them and we may be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices. the determination of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our results of operations or financial position the determination of the amount of allowances and impairments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in allowances and impairments in operations as such evaluations are revised. there can be no assurance that our management has accurately assessed the level of impairments taken and allowances reflected in our consolidated financial statements. furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future. historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances. for example, the cost of our fixed maturity and equity securities is adjusted for impairments in value deemed to be other-than-temporary in the period in which the determination is made. the assessment of whether impairments 40 table of contents have occurred is based on management case-by-case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in estimated fair value. the review of our fixed maturity and equity securities for impairments includes an analysis of the total gross unrealized losses by three categories of securities: (i) securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%; (ii) securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for less than six months; and (iii) securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for six months or greater. additionally, our management considers a wide range of factors about the security issuer and uses their best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near-term recovery. inherent in management evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. considerations in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to: (i) the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below cost or amortized cost; (ii) the potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is experiencing significant financial difficulties; (iii) the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub-sector; (iv) the potential for impairments in certain economically depressed geographic locations; (v) the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has exhausted natural resources; (vi) our ability and intent to hold the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its value to an amount equal to or greater than cost or amortized cost; (vii) unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows on mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities; and (viii) other subjective factors, including concentrations and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies. gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities may be realized or result in future impairments, resulting in a reduction in our net income fixed maturity and equity securities classified as available-for-sale, except trading securities, are reported at their estimated fair value. unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale securities are recognized as a component of other comprehensive income (loss) and are, therefore, excluded from net income. our gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities at december 31, 2008 were $29.8 billion. the portion of the $29.8 billion of gross unrealized losses for fixed maturity and equity securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below amortized cost or cost by 20% or more for six months or greater was $4.0 billion at december 31, 2008. the accumulated change in estimated fair value of these available-for-sale securities is recognized in net income when the gain or loss is realized upon the sale of the security or in the event that the decline in estimated fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary and an impairment charge is taken. realized losses or impairments may have a material adverse affect on our net income in a particular quarterly or annual period. changes in market interest rates may significantly affect our profitability some of our products, principally traditional whole life insurance, fixed annuities and guaranteed investment contracts ( gics ), expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our spread, or the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts in our general account and the rate of return we are able to earn on general account investments intended to support obligations under the contracts. our spread is a key component of our net income. as interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, reducing our investment margin. moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the fixed-income securities, commercial mortgages and mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio with greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates, which exacerbates this risk. lowering interest crediting rates can help offset decreases in investment margins on some products. however, our ability to lower these rates could be limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. as a result, our spread could decrease or potentially become negative. our expectation for future spreads is an important component in the amortization of dac and voba and significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period. in addition, during periods of declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be relatively more attractive investments to consumers, resulting in increased premium payments on products 41 table of contents with flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans and increased persistency, or a higher percentage of insurance policies remaining in force from year to year, during a period when our new investments carry lower returns. a decline in market interest rates could also reduce our return on investments that do not support particular policy obligations. accordingly, declining interest rates may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows and significantly reduce our profitability. the sufficiency of our reserves in taiwan is highly sensitive to interest rates and other related assumptions. this is due to the sustained low interest rate environment in taiwan coupled with long-term interest rate guarantees of approximately 6% embedded in the life and health contracts sold prior to 2003 and the lack of availability of long-duration assets in the taiwanese capital markets to match such long-duration liabilities. the key assumptions utilized include that current taiwan government bond yield rates increase from current levels of 1.6% to 2.7% over the next ten years, mortality and morbidity levels remain consistent with recent experience and that u.s. dollar assets make up 35% of total assets backing reserves. current reserve adequacy analysis shows that provisions are adequate; however, adverse changes in key assumptions for interest rates, exchange rates, and mortality and morbidity levels or lapse rates could lead to a need to strengthen reserves and therefore for additional capital. increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect our profitability. in periods of rapidly increasing interest rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, the assets in metlife general account with higher yielding assets needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep interest sensitive products competitive. we, therefore, may have to accept a lower spread and, thus, lower profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of existing contracts and related assets. in addition, policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals may tend to increase as policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns as interest rates rise. this process may result in cash outflows requiring that we sell invested assets at a time when the prices of those assets are adversely affected by the increase in market interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses. unanticipated withdrawals and terminations may cause us to accelerate the amortization of dac and voba, which would increase our current expenses and reduce net income. an increase in market interest rates could also have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the estimated fair values of the fixed income securities that comprise a substantial portion of our investment portfolio. consolidation of distributors of insurance products may adversely affect the insurance industry and the profitability of our business the insurance industry distributes many of its individual products through other financial institutions such as banks and broker-dealers. as capital, credit and equity markets continue to experience volatility, bank and broker-dealer consolidation activity may increase and negatively impact the industry sales, and such consolidation could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market insurance products to our current customer base or to expand our customer base. industry trends could adversely affect the profitability of our businesses our business segments continue to be influenced by a variety of trends that affect the insurance industry, including intense competition with respect to product features, price, distribution capability, customer service and information technology. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends. the impact on our business and on the life insurance industry generally of the volatility and instability of the financial markets is difficult to predict, and our business plans, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted or affected in other unexpected ways. in addition, the life insurance industry is subject to state regulation, and, as complex products are introduced, regulators may refine capital requirements and introduce new reserving standards. furthermore, regulators have undertaken market and sales practices reviews of several markets or products, including equity-indexed annuities, variable annuities and group products. the current market environment may also lead to changes in regulation that may benefit or disadvantage us relative to some of our competitors. see competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability and business competition. 42 table of contents a decline in equity markets or an increase in volatility in equity markets may adversely affect sales of our investment products and our profitability significant downturns and volatility in equity markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in three principal ways. first, equity market downturns and volatility may discourage purchases of separate account products, such as variable annuities and variable life insurance that have underlying mutual funds with returns linked to the performance of the equity markets and may cause some of our existing customers to withdraw cash values or reduce investments in those products. second, downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a material adverse effect on the revenues and returns from our savings and investment products and services. because these products and services depend on fees related primarily to the value of assets under management, a decline in the equity markets could reduce our revenues by reducing the value of the investment assets we manage. the retail annuity business in particular is highly sensitive to equity markets, and a sustained weakness in the equity markets will decrease revenues and earnings in variable annuity products. third, we provide certain guarantees within some of our products that protect policyholders against significant downturns in the equity markets. for example, we offer variable annuity products with guaranteed features, such as death benefits, withdrawal benefits, and minimum accumulation and income benefits. in volatile or declining equity market conditions, we may need to increase liabilities for future policy benefits and policyholder account balances, negatively affecting net income. if our business does not perform well, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our goodwill or other long-lived assets or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the estimated fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. we test goodwill at least annually for impairment. impairment testing is performed based upon estimates of the fair value of the reporting unit to which the goodwill relates. the reporting unit is the operating segment or a business one level below that operating segment if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at that level. the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the business. the performance of our businesses may be adversely impacted by prolonged market declines. if it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, metlife must write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. such write downs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates goodwill. long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate, also require impairment testing to determine whether changes in circumstances indicate that metlife will be unable to recover the carrying amount of the asset group through future operations of that asset group or market conditions that will impact the value of those assets. such write downs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. factors in management determination include the performance of the business including the ability to generate future taxable income. if based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. further or continued deterioration of financial market conditions could result in a decrease in the expected future earnings of our reporting units, which could lead to an impairment of some or all of the goodwill associated with them in future periods. such deterioration could also result in the impairment of long-lived assets and the establishment of a valuation allowance on our deferred income tax assets. 43 table of contents competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability our business segments are subject to intense competition. we believe that this competition is based on a number of factors, including service, product features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, e-business capabilities and name recognition. we compete with a large number of other insurers, as well as non-insurance financial services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset managers, for individual consumers, employers and other group customers and agents and other distributors of insurance and investment products. some of these companies offer a broader array of products, have more competitive pricing or, with respect to other insurers, have higher claims paying ability ratings. some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete. national banks, which may sell annuity products of life insurers in some circumstances, also have pre-existing customer bases for financial services products. many of our insurance products, particularly those offered by our institutional segment, are underwritten annually, and, accordingly, there is a risk that group purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors rather than renewing coverage with us. the effect of competition may, as a result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell products in the future. in addition, the investment management and securities brokerage businesses have relatively few barriers to entry and continually attract new entrants. many of our competitors in these businesses offer a broader array of investment products and services and are better known than we are as sellers of annuities and other investment products. see business competition. finally, the choices made by the u.s. treasury in the administration of eesa and in its distribution of amounts available thereunder could have the effect of supporting some parts of the financial system more than others. see there can be no assurance that actions of the u.s. government, federal reserve bank of new york and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets will achieve the intended effect. we may be unable to attract and retain sales representatives for our products we must attract and retain productive sales representatives to sell our insurance, annuities and investment products. strong competition exists among insurers for sales representatives with demonstrated ability. in addition, there is competition for representatives with other types of financial services firms, such as independent broker-dealers. we compete with other insurers for sales representatives primarily on the basis of our financial position, support services and compensation and product features. we continue to undertake several initiatives to grow our career agency force while continuing to enhance the efficiency and production of our existing sales force. we cannot provide assurance that these initiatives will succeed in attracting and retaining new agents. sales of individual insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents. see business competition. differences between actual claims experience and underwriting and reserving assumptions may adversely affect our financial results our earnings significantly depend upon the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in setting prices for our products and establishing liabilities for future policy benefits and claims. our liabilities for future policy benefits and claims are established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims. for life insurance and annuity products, we calculate these liabilities based on many assumptions and estimates, including estimated premiums to be received over the assumed life of the policy, the timing of the event covered by the insurance policy, the amount of benefits or claims to be paid and the investment returns on the assets we purchase with the premiums we receive. we establish liabilities for property and casualty claims and benefits based on assumptions and estimates of damages and liabilities incurred. to the extent that actual claims experience is less favorable than the underlying assumptions we used in establishing such liabilities, we could be required to increase our liabilities. due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of liabilities for future policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely the amounts which we will 44 table of contents ultimately pay to settle our liabilities. such amounts may vary from the estimated amounts, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future. we evaluate our liabilities periodically based on changes in the assumptions used to establish the liabilities, as well as our actual experience. we charge or credit changes in our liabilities to expenses in the period the liabilities are established or re-estimated. if the liabilities originally established for future benefit payments prove inadequate, we must increase them. such increases could affect earnings negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business management of risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events. we have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not be comprehensive. many of our methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. as a result, these methods may not fully predict future exposures, which can be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate. other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. this information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. change in our discount rate, expected rate of return and expected compensation increase assumptions for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability we determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on our best estimates of future plan experience. these assumptions are reviewed regularly and include discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets and expected increases in compensation levels and expected medical inflation. changes in these assumptions may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations pensions and other postretirement benefit plans and note 17 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for details on how changes in these assumptions would affect plan costs. catastrophes may adversely impact liabilities for policyholder claims and reinsurance availability our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that causes a large number of deaths. significant influenza pandemics have occurred three times in the last century, but neither the likelihood, timing, nor the severity of a future pandemic can be predicted. the effectiveness of external parties, including governmental and non-governmental organizations, in combating the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have a material impact on the losses experienced by us. in our group insurance operations, a localized event that affects the workplace of one or more of our group insurance customers could cause a significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims. these events could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any period and, depending on their severity, could also materially and adversely affect our financial condition. our auto home business has experienced, and will likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses that may have a material adverse impact on the business, results of operations and financial condition of the auto home segment. although auto home makes every effort to manage our exposure to catastrophic risks through volatility management and reinsurance programs, these efforts do not eliminate all risk. catastrophes can be caused by various events, including pandemics, hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards), fires and man-made events such as terrorist attacks. historically, substantially all of our catastrophe-related claims have related to homeowners coverages. however, catastrophes may also affect other auto home coverages. due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence, timing and severity of catastrophes. in addition, changing climate conditions, primarily rising global temperatures, may be increasing, or may in the future increase, the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes such as hurricanes. 45 table of contents hurricanes and earthquakes are of particular note for our homeowners coverages. areas of major hurricane exposure include coastal sections of the northeastern united states (including lower new york, connecticut, rhode island and massachusetts), the gulf coast (including alabama, mississippi, louisiana and texas) and florida. we also have some earthquake exposure, primarily along the new madrid fault line in the central united states and in the pacific northwest. the extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however, pandemics, hurricanes, earthquakes and man-made catastrophes may produce significant damage in larger areas, especially those that are heavily populated. claims resulting from natural or man-made catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition. also, catastrophic events could harm the financial condition of our reinsurers and thereby increase the probability of default on reinsurance recoveries. our ability to write new business could also be affected. it is possible that increases in the value, caused by the effects of inflation or other factors, and geographic concentration of insured property, could increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. most of the jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business require life and property and casualty insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. these associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is engaged. in addition, certain states have government owned or controlled organizations providing life and property and casualty insurance to their citizens. the activities of such organizations could also place additional stress on the adequacy of guaranty fund assessments. many of these organizations also have the power to levy assessments similar to those of the guaranty associations described above. some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. see business regulation insurance regulation guaranty associations and similar arrangements. while in the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied against metlife have not been material, it is possible that a large catastrophic event could render such guaranty funds inadequate and we may be called upon to contribute additional amounts, which may have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations in a particular period. we have established liabilities for guaranty fund assessments that we consider adequate for assessments with respect to insurers that are currently subject to insolvency proceedings, but additional liabilities may be necessary. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations insolvency assessments. consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we establish liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. we cannot be certain that the liabilities we have established will be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities. from time to time, states have passed legislation that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage risk, such as legislation restricting an insurer ability to withdraw from catastrophe-prone areas. while we attempt to limit our exposure to acceptable levels, subject to restrictions imposed by insurance regulatory authorities, a catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our ability to manage this risk and the profitability of our property and casualty and life insurance businesses depends in part on our ability to obtain catastrophe reinsurance, which may not be available at commercially acceptable rates in the future. see reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses. a downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could result in a loss of business and materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations financial strength ratings, which various nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ( nrsros ) publish as indicators of an insurance company ability to meet contractholder and policyholder 46 table of contents obligations, are important to maintaining public confidence in our products, our ability to market our products and our competitive position. see business company ratings insurer financial strength ratings. downgrades in our financial strength ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including: reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other investment products; adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and independent sales intermediaries; materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders; requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and services to remain competitive; and adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices or at all. in addition to the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries, various nrsros also publish credit ratings for metlife, inc. and several of its subsidiaries. credit ratings are indicators of a debt issuer ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner and are important factors in our overall funding profile and ability to access certain types of liquidity. see business company ratings credit ratings. downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including adversely limiting our access to capital markets, potentially increasing the cost of debt, and requiring us to post collateral. a two-notch decrease in the financial strength ratings of our insurance company subsidiaries would require us to post less than $200 million of collateral in connection with derivative collateral arrangements, to which we are a party and would have allowed holders of $500 million aggregate account value of our funding agreements to terminate such funding agreements on 90 days notice. in view of the difficulties experienced recently by many financial institutions, including our competitors in the insurance industry, we believe it is possible that the nrsros will heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to such institutions, will increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, will request additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the nrsro models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. rating agencies use an outlook statement of positive, stable, negative or developing to indicate a medium- or long-term trend in credit fundamentals which, if continued, may lead to a ratings change. a rating may have a stable outlook to indicate that the rating is not expected to change; however, a stable rating does not preclude a rating agency from changing a rating at any time, without notice. certain rating agencies have recently revised their outlook on the u.s. life insurance sector, as well as metlife, inc. and certain of its subsidiaries insurer financial strength and credit ratings, from stable to negative. furthermore, the insurer financial strength and credit ratings of metlife, inc. and certain of its subsidiaries have also been recently downgraded. see business company ratings rating actions. we cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. as with other companies in the financial services industry, our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without any notice by any nrsro. an inability to access our credit facilities could result in a reduction in our liquidity and lead to downgrades in our credit and financial strength ratings we have a $2.85 billion five-year revolving credit facility that matures in june 2012, as well as other facilities which we enter into in the ordinary course of business. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources liquidity and capital sources credit facilities and committed facilities. we rely on our credit facilities as a potential source of liquidity. the availability of these facilities could be critical to our credit and financial strength ratings and our ability to meet our obligations as they come due, particularly in the current market when alternative sources of credit are tight. the credit facilities contain certain administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants. we must comply with certain covenants under our credit 47 table of contents facilities (including the $2.85 billion five-year revolving credit facility) that require us to maintain a specified minimum consolidated net worth. our right to make borrowings under these facilities is subject to the fulfillment of certain important conditions, including our compliance with all covenants, and our ability to borrow is also subject to the continued willingness and ability of the lenders that are parties to the facilities to provide funds. our failure to comply with the covenants in the credit facilities or fulfill the conditions to borrowings, or the failure of lenders to fund their lending commitments (whether due to insolvency, illiquidity or other reasons) in the amounts provided for under the terms of the facilities, would restrict our ability to access these credit facilities when needed and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. guarantees within certain of our products that protect policyholders against significant downturns in equity markets may decrease our earnings, increase the volatility of our results if hedging or risk management strategies prove ineffective, result in higher hedging costs, expose us to increased counterparty risk and result in our own credit exposure certain of our variable annuity products include guaranteed benefit riders. these include guaranteed death benefits, guaranteed withdrawal benefits, lifetime withdrawal guarantees, guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits, and guaranteed minimum income benefit riders. periods of significant and sustained downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, or reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of the future policy benefit or policyholder account balance liabilities associated with such products, resulting in a reduction to net income. we use reinsurance in combination with derivative instruments to mitigate the liability exposure and the volatility of net income associated with these liabilities, and while we believe that these and other actions have mitigated the risks related to these benefits, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay. in addition, we are subject to the risk that hedging and other management procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed. these, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on net income, financial condition or liquidity. we are also subject to the risk that the cost of hedging these guaranteed minimum benefits increases, resulting in a reduction to net income. we also must consider our own credit standing, which is not hedged, in the valuation of certain of these liabilities. a decrease in our own credit spread could cause the value of these liabilities to increase, resulting in a reduction to net income. if our business does not perform well or if actual experience versus estimates used in valuing and amortizing dac and voba vary significantly, we may be required to accelerate the amortization and/or impair the dac and voba which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition we incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal business. those costs that vary with and are primarily related to the production of new and renewal business are deferred and referred to as dac. the recovery of dac is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. the amount of future profit or margin is dependent principally on investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest crediting rates, dividends paid to policyholders, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties and certain economic variables, such as inflation. of these factors, we anticipate that investment returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of such costs. the aforementioned factors enter into management estimates of gross profits or margins, which generally are used to amortize such costs. if the estimates of gross profits or margins were overstated, then the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to income. significant or sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of the dac related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. voba reflects the estimated fair value of in-force contracts in a life insurance company acquisition and represents the portion of the purchase price that is allocated to the value of the right to receive future cash flows from the insurance and annuity contracts in-force at the acquisition date. voba is based on actuarially determined 48 table of contents projections. actual experience may vary from the projections. revisions to estimates result in changes to the amounts expensed in the reporting period in which the revisions are made and could result in an impairment and a charge to income. also, as voba is amortized similarly to dac, an acceleration of the amortization of voba would occur if the estimates of gross profits or margins were overstated. accordingly, the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period in which the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to net income. significant or sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of the voba related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates deferred policy acquisition costs and value of business acquired for further consideration of dac and voba and the impact of current market events during 2008. defaults, downgrades or other events impairing the value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio may reduce our earnings we are subject to the risk that the issuers, or guarantors, of fixed maturity securities we own may default on principal and interest payments they owe us. we are also subject to the risk that the underlying collateral within loan-backed securities, including mortgage-backed securities, may default on principal and interest payments causing an adverse change in cash flows paid to our investment. at december 31, 2008, the fixed maturity securities of $188.3 billion in our investment portfolio represented 58.4% of our total cash and invested assets. the occurrence of a major economic downturn (such as the current downturn in the economy), acts of corporate malfeasance, widening risk spreads, or other events that adversely affect the issuers, guarantors or underlying collateral of these securities could cause the value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio and our net income to decline and the default rate of the fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio to increase. a ratings downgrade affecting issuers or guarantors of particular securities, or similar trends that could worsen the credit quality of issuers, such as the corporate issuers of securities in our investment portfolio, could also have a similar effect. with economic uncertainty, credit quality of issuers or guarantors could be adversely affected. similarly, a ratings downgrade affecting a loan-backed security we hold could indicate the credit quality of that security has deteriorated. any event reducing the value of these securities other than on a temporary basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. levels of write down or impairment are impacted by our assessment of the intent and ability to hold securities which have declined in value until recovery. if we determine to reposition or realign portions of the portfolio so as not to hold certain securities in an unrealized loss position to recovery, then we will incur an other than temporary impairment charge in the period that the decision was made not to hold the security to recovery. in addition, in january, 2009, moody revised its loss projections for u.s. alt-a residential mortgage-backed securities (rmbs), and it is anticipated that moody will be downgrading virtually all 2006 and 2007 alt-a securities to below investment grade, which will increase the percentage of our portfolio that will be rated below investment grade. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and foreign securities markets could negatively affect our profitability we are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar resulting from our holdings of non-u.s. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries and net income from foreign operations. these risks relate to potential decreases in value and income resulting from a strengthening or weakening in foreign exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar. in general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the u.s. dollar will adversely affect the value of our non-u.s. dollar denominated investments and our investments in foreign subsidiaries. although we use foreign currency swaps and forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk, we cannot provide assurance that these methods will be effective or that our counterparties will perform their obligations. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. from time to time, various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies. our exposure to foreign exchange rate risk is exacerbated by our investments in emerging markets. 49 table of contents we have matched substantially all of our foreign currency liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with assets denominated in their respective foreign currency, which limits the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuation on local operating results; however, fluctuations in such rates affect the translation of these results into our consolidated financial statements. although we take certain actions to address this risk, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation could materially adversely affect our reported results due to unhedged positions or the failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that we do not face in our domestic operations. we face the risk of discriminatory regulation, nationalization or expropriation of assets, price controls and exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold into u.s. dollars or other currencies. some of our foreign insurance operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where these risks are heightened. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in addition, we rely on local sales forces in these countries and may encounter labor problems resulting from workers associations and trade unions in some countries. in japan, china and india we operate with local business partners with the resulting risk of managing partner relationships to the business objectives. if our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training the sales force in that country. we are currently planning to expand our international operations in markets where we operate and in selected new markets. this may require considerable management time, as well as start-up expenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. operations in new foreign markets may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in existing markets may be affected by local economic and market conditions. therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not achieve expected operating margins and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. in recent years, the operating environment in argentina has been very challenging. in argentina, we are principally engaged in the pension business. in december 2008, the argentine government nationalized private pensions and seized the pension funds investments, eliminating the private pensions business in argentina. as a result, we will experience a reduction in the operation future revenues and cash flows. the argentine government now controls all assets which previously were managed by our argentine pension operations. further governmental or legal actions related to our operations in argentina could negatively impact our operations in argentina and result in future losses. see also changes in market interest rates may significantly affect our profitability regarding the impact of low interest rates on our taiwanese operations. reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses as part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various business segments. see business reinsurance activity. while reinsurance agreements generally bind the reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured at generally fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new business. in certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for business already reinsured may also increase. any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to those policies we issue. 50 table of contents if the counterparties to our reinsurance or indemnification arrangements or to the derivative instruments we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations we use reinsurance, indemnification and derivative instruments to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. in general, reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers and indemnitors. we cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that indemnitors will honor their obligations now or in the future or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. a reinsurer or indemnitor insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of reinsurance agreements or indemnity agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various business risks. we enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit default and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments. if our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative instruments, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. this is a more pronounced risk to us in view of the recent stresses suffered by financial institutions. such failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our insurance businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth our insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of insurance and other laws and regulations. see business regulation insurance regulation. state insurance laws regulate most aspects of our u.s. insurance businesses, and our insurance subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled and the states in which they are licensed. our non-u.s. insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled and operate. state laws in the united states grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things: licensing companies and agents to transact business; calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements; mandating certain insurance benefits; regulating certain premium rates; reviewing and approving policy forms; regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution arrangements and payment of inducements; regulating advertising; protecting privacy; establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency standards; fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity contracts; approving changes in control of insurance companies; restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates; and regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments. 51 table of contents state insurance guaranty associations have the right to assess insurance companies doing business in their state for funds to help pay the obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. because the amount and timing of an assessment is beyond our control, the liabilities that we have currently established for these potential liabilities may not be adequate. see business regulation insurance regulation guaranty associations and similar arrangements. state insurance regulators and the naic regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the naic and several states legislatures have considered the need for regulations and/or laws to address agent or broker practices that have been the focus of investigations of broker compensation in the state of new york and in other jurisdictions. the naic adopted a compensation disclosure amendment to its producers licensing model act which, if adopted by the states, would require disclosure by agents or brokers to customers that insurers will compensate such agents or brokers for the placement of insurance and documented acknowledgement of this arrangement in cases where the customer also compensates the agent or broker. several states have enacted laws similar to the naic amendment. we cannot predict how many states may promulgate the naic amendment or alternative regulations or the extent to which these regulations may have a material adverse impact on our business. currently, the u.s. federal government does not directly regulate the business of insurance. however, federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies. these areas include financial services regulation, securities regulation, pension regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. in addition, various forms of direct federal regulation of insurance have been proposed. in view of recent events involving certain financial institutions and the financial markets, it is possible that the u.s. federal government will heighten its oversight of insurers such as us, including possibly through a federal system of insurance regulation and/or that the oversight responsibilities and mandates of existing or newly created regulatory bodies could change. we cannot predict whether these or other proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our international operations are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they operate, which in many ways is similar to that of the state regulation outlined above. many of our customers and independent sales intermediaries also operate in regulated environments. changes in the regulations that affect their operations also may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or distribute our products. accordingly, these changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. see our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability. compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations or audits of metlife, inc. subsidiaries that could, if determined adversely, have a material impact on us. we cannot predict whether or when regulatory actions may be taken that could adversely affect our operations. in addition, the interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements. we are also subject to other regulations, including banking regulations, and may in the future become subject to additional regulations. see business regulation. 52 table of contents litigation and regulatory investigations are increasingly common in our businesses and may result in significant financial losses and harm to our reputation we face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. our pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings specific to us and others generally applicable to business practices in the industries in which we operate. in connection with our insurance operations, plaintiffs lawyers may bring or are bringing class actions and individual suits alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product design, disclosure, administration, denial or delay of benefits and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers. plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, and the damages claimed and the amount of any probable and estimable liability, if any, may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. see legal proceedings and note 16 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular points in time may be inherently impossible to ascertain with any degree of certainty. inherent uncertainties can include how fact finders will view individually and in their totality documentary evidence, the credibility and effectiveness of witnesses testimony, and how trial and appellate courts will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal. disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the relevant evidence and applicable law. on a quarterly and annual basis, we review relevant information with respect to litigation and contingencies to be reflected in our consolidated financial statements. the review includes senior legal and financial personnel. unless stated elsewhere herein, estimates of possible losses or ranges of loss for particular matters cannot in the ordinary course be made with a reasonable degree of certainty. see legal proceedings and note 16 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. liabilities have been established for a number of matters noted in legal proceedings and note 16 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. it is possible that some of the matters could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures or establish accruals in amounts that could not be estimated at december 31, 2008. mlic and metlife, inc. have been named as defendants in several lawsuits brought in connection with mlic demutualization in 2000. although most of these lawsuits have been dismissed, two have been certified as nationwide class action lawsuits. mlic and its affiliates also are currently defendants in numerous lawsuits including class action lawsuits, alleging improper marketing or sales of individual life insurance policies, annuities, mutual funds or other products. in addition, mlic is a defendant in a large number of lawsuits seeking compensatory and punitive damages for personal injuries allegedly caused by exposure to asbestos or asbestos-containing products. these lawsuits principally have focused on allegations with respect to certain research, publication and other activities of one or more of mlic employees during the period from the 1920 through approximately the 1950 and have alleged that mlic learned or should have learned of certain health risks posed by asbestos and, among other things, improperly publicized or failed to disclose those health risks. additional litigation relating to these matters may be commenced in the future. the ability of mlic to estimate its ultimate asbestos exposure is subject to considerable uncertainty, and the conditions impacting its liability can be dynamic and subject to change. the availability of reliable data is limited and it is difficult to predict with any certainty the numerous variables that can affect liability estimates, including the number of future claims, the cost to resolve claims, the disease mix and severity of disease in pending and future claims, the impact of the number of new claims filed in a particular jurisdiction and variations in the law in the jurisdictions in which claims are filed, the possible impact of tort reform efforts, the willingness of courts to allow plaintiffs to pursue claims against mlic when exposure took place after the dangers of asbestos exposure were well known, and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts. the number of asbestos cases that may be brought or the aggregate amount of any liability that mlic may incur, and the total amount paid in settlements in any given year are uncertain and may vary significantly from year to year. accordingly, it is reasonably possible that our total exposure to asbestos claims may be materially greater than 53 table of contents the liability recorded by us in our consolidated financial statements and that future charges to income may be necessary. the potential future charges could be material in the particular quarterly or annual periods in which they are recorded. we are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as information requests, subpoenas and books and record examinations, from state and federal regulators and other authorities. a substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. moreover, even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation, regulatory action or investigation, we could suffer significant reputational harm, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our ability to attract new customers, retain our current customers and recruit and retain employees. regulatory inquiries and litigation may cause volatility in the price of stocks of companies in our industry. we cannot give assurance that current claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and other proceedings against us will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. it is also possible that related or unrelated claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and proceedings may be commenced in the future, and we could become subject to further investigations and have lawsuits filed or enforcement actions initiated against us. in addition, increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings could result in new legal actions and precedents and industry-wide regulations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in accounting standards issued by the financial accounting standards board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements our financial statements are subject to the application of gaap, which is periodically revised and/or expanded. accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the financial accounting standards board. market conditions have prompted accounting standard setters to expose new guidance which further interprets or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements related to financial instruments, structures or transactions as well as to issue new standards expanding disclosures. the impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in our annual and quarterly reports on form 10-k and form 10-q. an assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and, therefore, the effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. it is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. further, the federal government, under the eesa, conducted an investigation of fair value accounting during the fourth quarter of 2008 and has granted the sec the authority to suspend fair value accounting for any registrant or group of registrants at its discretion. the impact of such actions on registrants who apply fair value accounting cannot be readily determined at this time; however, actions taken by the federal government could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of companies, including ours, that apply fair value accounting. changes in u.s. federal and state securities laws and regulations may affect our operations and our profitability federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to insurance products that are also securities, including variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies. as a result, some of metlife, inc. subsidiaries and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance contracts and policies are subject to extensive regulation under these securities laws. these subsidiaries issue variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies through separate accounts that are registered with the sec as investment companies under the investment company act. each registered separate account is generally divided into sub-accounts, each of which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is itself a registered investment company under the investment company act. in addition, the variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies issued by the separate accounts are registered with the sec under the securities act. other subsidiaries are registered with the sec as 54 table of contents broker-dealers under the exchange act, and are members of, and subject to, regulation by finra. further, some of our subsidiaries are registered as investment advisers with the sec under the investment advisers act of 1940, and are also registered as investment advisers in various states, as applicable. federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily intended to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect investors in the securities markets, as well as protect investment advisory or brokerage clients. these laws and regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with the securities laws and regulations. changes to these laws or regulations that restrict the conduct of our business could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in particular, changes in the regulations governing the registration and distribution of variable insurance products, such as changes in the regulatory standards for suitability of variable annuity contracts or variable life insurance policies, could have such a material adverse effect. changes in tax laws, tax regulations, or interpretations of such laws or regulations could increase our corporate taxes; changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to consumers changes in tax laws, tax regulations, or interpretations of such laws or regulations could increase our corporate taxes. changes in corporate tax rates could affect the value of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. furthermore, the value of deferred tax assets could be impacted by future earnings levels. changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to consumers. a shift away from life insurance and annuity contracts and other tax-deferred products would reduce our income from sales of these products, as well as the assets upon which we earn investment income. we cannot predict whether any tax legislation impacting corporate taxes or insurance products will be enacted, what the specific terms of any such legislation will be or whether, if at all, any legislation would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may need to fund deficiencies in our closed block; assets allocated to the closed block benefit only the holders of closed block policies mlic plan of reorganization, as amended (the plan ), required that we establish and operate an accounting mechanism, known as a closed block, to ensure that the reasonable dividend expectations of policyholders who own certain individual insurance policies of mlic are met. see note 9 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. we allocated assets to the closed block in an amount that will produce cash flows which, together with anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block, are reasonably expected to be sufficient to support obligations and liabilities relating to these policies, including, but not limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain expenses and tax, and to provide for the continuation of the policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999, if the experience underlying such scales continues, and for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience changes. we cannot provide assurance that the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block will be sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies. if they are not sufficient, we must fund the shortfall. even if they are sufficient, we may choose, for competitive reasons, to support policyholder dividend payments with our general account funds. the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies in the closed block will benefit only the holders of those policies. in addition, to the extent that these amounts are greater than the amounts estimated at the time the closed block was funded, dividends payable in respect of the policies included in the closed block may be greater than they would be in the absence of a closed block. any excess earnings will be available for distribution over time only to closed block policyholders. 55 table of contents the continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may adversely affect the level of claim losses we incur and the value of our investment portfolio the continued threat of terrorism, both within the united states and abroad, ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility in global financial markets and result in loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. we cannot predict whether, and the extent to which, companies in which we maintain investments may suffer losses as a result of financial, commercial or economic disruptions, or how any such disruptions might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or principal on their securities. the continued threat of terrorism also could result in increased reinsurance prices and reduced insurance coverage and potentially cause us to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. terrorist actions also could disrupt our operations centers in the united states or abroad. in addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions could result in higher claims under our insurance policies than anticipated. see difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations and these conditions may not improve in the near future. the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning could impair our ability to conduct business effectively in the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an epidemic, an industrial accident, a blackout, a computer virus, a terrorist attack or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial position, particularly if those problems affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data. we depend heavily upon computer systems to provide reliable service. despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our computer systems could be subject to physical and electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. in addition, in the event that a significant number of our managers were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. these interruptions also may interfere with our suppliers ability to provide goods and services and our employees ability to perform their job responsibilities. we face unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments arising from possible acquisitions and dispositions of businesses or difficulties integrating such businesses we have engaged in dispositions and acquisitions of businesses in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future. there could be unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments, including goodwill impairments, that arise in connection with the businesses that we may sell or the businesses that we may acquire in the future. in addition, there may be liabilities or asset impairments that we fail, or are unable, to discover in the course of performing due diligence investigations on each business that we have acquired or may acquire. furthermore, the use of our own funds as consideration in any acquisition would consume capital resources that would no longer be available for other corporate purposes. our ability to achieve certain benefits we anticipate from any acquisitions of businesses will depend in large part upon our ability to successfully integrate such businesses in an efficient and effective manner. we may not be able to integrate such businesses smoothly or successfully, and the process may take loner than expected. the integration of operations may require the dedication of significant management resources, which may distract management attention from day-to-day business. if we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of such acquired businesses, we may be unable to realize the benefits we expect to achieve as a result of such acquisitions and our business and results of operations may be less than expected. 56 table of contents guarantees within certain of our variable annuity guarantee riders that protect policyholders against significant downturns in equity markets may increase the volatility of our results related to the inclusion of an own credit adjustment in the estimated fair value of the liability for these riders in determining the valuation of certain variable annuity guarantee rider liabilities that are carried at estimated fair value, we must consider our own credit standing, which is not hedged. a decrease in our own credit spread could cause the value of these liabilities to increase, resulting in a reduction to net income. an increase in our own credit spread could cause the value of these liabilities to decrease, resulting in an increase to net income. because this credit adjustment is determined, at least in part, by taking into consideration publicly available information relating to our publicly-traded debt (including related credit default swap spreads), the overall condition of fixed income markets may impact this adjustment. the credit premium implied in our publicly-traded debt instruments may not always necessarily reflect our actual credit rating or our claims paying ability. recently, the fixed-income markets have experienced a period of extreme volatility which negatively impacted market liquidity and increased credit spreads. the increase in credit default swap spreads has at times been even more pronounced than in the fixed income cash markets. in a broad based market downturn, this increase in our own credit spread could result in net income being relatively flat when a deterioration in other market inputs required for the estimate of fair value would otherwise result in a significant reduction in net income. the inclusion of our own credit standing in this case has the effect of muting the actual net income losses recognized. in subsequent periods, if our credit spreads improve relative to the overall market, we could have a reduction of net income in an overall improving market. as a holding company, metlife, inc. depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to transfer funds to it to meet its obligations and pay dividends metlife, inc. is a holding company for its insurance and financial subsidiaries and does not have any significant operations of its own. dividends from its subsidiaries and permitted payments to it under its tax sharing arrangements with its subsidiaries are its principal sources of cash to meet its obligations and to pay preferred and common dividends. if the cash metlife, inc. receives from its subsidiaries is insufficient for it to fund its debt service and other holding company obligations, metlife, inc. may be required to raise cash through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of additional equity or the sale of assets. the payment of dividends and other distributions to metlife, inc. by its insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. in general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits require insurance regulatory approval. in addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of dividends or other payments by its insurance subsidiaries to metlife, inc. if they determine that the payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. see business regulation insurance regulation and note 18 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the holding company liquidity and capital sources dividends. any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or advances by our foreign subsidiaries to metlife, inc. could be subject to taxation or other restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdiction in which such foreign subsidiaries operate. see our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability. metlife, inc. board of directors may control the outcome of stockholder votes on many matters due to the voting provisions of the metlife policyholder trust under the plan, we established the metlife policyholder trust (the trust ) to hold the shares of metlife, inc. common stock allocated to eligible policyholders not receiving cash or policy credits under the plan. as of february 20, 2009, 241,743,740 shares, or 29.6%, of the outstanding shares of metlife, inc. common stock, are held in the trust. because of the number of shares held in the trust and the voting provisions of the trust, the trust may affect the outcome of matters brought to a stockholder vote. except on votes regarding certain fundamental corporate actions described below, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held in the trust in accordance with the recommendations given by metlife, inc. 57 table of contents board of directors to its stockholders or, if the board gives no such recommendations, as directed by the board. as a result of the voting provisions of the trust, the board of directors may be able to control votes on matters submitted to a vote of stockholders, excluding those fundamental corporate actions, so long as the trust holds a substantial number of shares of common stock. if the vote relates to fundamental corporate actions specified in the trust, the trustee will solicit instructions from the trust beneficiaries and vote all shares held in the trust in proportion to the instructions it receives. these actions include: an election or removal of directors in which a stockholder has properly nominated one or more candidates in opposition to a nominee or nominees of metlife, inc. board of directors or a vote on a stockholder proposal to oppose a board nominee for director, remove a director for cause or fill a vacancy caused by the removal of a director by stockholders, subject to certain conditions; a merger or consolidation, a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the assets, or a recapitalization or dissolution, of metlife, inc., in each case requiring a vote of stockholders under applicable delaware law; any transaction that would result in an exchange or conversion of shares of common stock held by the trust for cash, securities or other property; and any proposal requiring metlife, inc. board of directors to amend or redeem the rights under the stockholder rights plan, other than a proposal with respect to which we have received advice of nationally-recognized legal counsel to the effect that the proposal is not a proper subject for stockholder action under delaware law. if a vote concerns any of these fundamental corporate actions, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held by the trust in proportion to the instructions it received, which will give disproportionate weight to the instructions actually given by trust beneficiaries. state laws, federal laws, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and our stockholder rights plan may delay, deter or prevent takeovers and business combinations that stockholders might consider in their best interests state laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. for instance, they may prevent stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of metlife, inc. common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of metlife, inc. common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. any person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would face various regulatory obstacles which may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders of metlife, inc. might consider in their best interests. first, the insurance laws and regulations of the various states in which metlife, inc. insurance subsidiaries are organized may delay or impede a business combination involving us. state insurance laws prohibit an entity from acquiring control of an insurance company without the prior approval of the domestic insurance regulator. under most states statutes, an entity is presumed to have control of an insurance company if it owns, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of that insurance company or its parent company. we are also subject to banking regulations, and may in the future become subject to additional regulations. in addition, the investment company act would require approval by the contract owners of our variable contracts in order to effectuate a change of control of any affiliated investment adviser to a mutual fund underlying our variable contracts. finally, finra approval would be necessary for a change of control of any finra registered broker-dealer that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of metlife, inc. in addition, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law may affect the ability of an interested stockholder to engage in certain business combinations, including mergers, consolidations or acquisitions of additional shares, for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder becomes an interested 58 table of contents stockholder. an interested stockholder is defined to include persons owning, directly or indirectly, 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation. metlife, inc. certificate of incorporation and by-laws also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. these provisions may adversely affect prevailing market prices for metlife, inc. common stock and include: classification of metlife, inc. board of directors into three classes; a prohibition on the calling of special meetings by stockholders; advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates to the board of directors and stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; and supermajority voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation and by-laws. the stockholder rights plan adopted by metlife, inc. board of directors may also have anti-takeover effects. the stockholder rights plan is designed to protect metlife, inc. stockholders in the event of unsolicited offers to acquire us and other coercive takeover tactics which, in the opinion of metlife, inc. board of directors, could impair its ability to represent stockholder interests. the provisions of the stockholder rights plan may render an unsolicited takeover more difficult or less likely to occur or might prevent such a takeover, even though such takeover may offer metlife, inc. stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing market price and may be favored by a majority of metlife, inc. stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 237 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management the company must effectively manage, measure and monitor the market risk associated with its assets and liabilities. it has developed an integrated process for managing risk, which it conducts through its enterprise risk management department, asset/liability management unit, treasury department and investment department along with the management of the business segments. the company has established and implemented comprehensive policies and procedures at both the corporate and business segment level to minimize the effects of potential market volatility. 237 table of contents the company regularly analyzes its exposure to interest rate, equity market price and foreign currency exchange rate risks. as a result of that analysis, the company has determined that the estimated fair value of certain assets and liabilities are materially exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and changes in the equity markets. enterprise risk management. metlife has established several financial and non-financial senior management committees as part of its risk management process. these committees manage capital and risk positions, approve asset/liability management strategies and establish appropriate corporate business standards. metlife also has a separate enterprise risk management department, which is responsible for risk throughout metlife and reports to metlife chief risk officer. the enterprise risk management department primary responsibilities consist of: implementing a board of directors approved corporate risk framework, which outlines the company approach for managing risk on an enterprise-wide basis; developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring, monitoring and controlling those risks identified in the corporate risk framework; establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels; deploying capital on an economic capital basis; and reporting on a periodic basis to the finance and risk policy committee of the company board of directors, and with respect to credit risk to the investment committee of the company board of directors and various financial and non-financial senior management committees. metlife does not expect to make any material changes to its risk management practices in 2009. asset/liability management(alm). the company actively manages its assets using an approach that balances quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity, concentration and investment return. the goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income tax, risk-adjusted investment income and risk-adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are reasonably managed on a cash flow and duration basis. the asset/liability management process is the shared responsibility of the financial risk management and asset/liability management unit, enterprise risk management, the portfolio management unit, and the senior members of the operating business segments and is governed by the alm committee. the alm committee duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios, establishing investment guidelines and limits and providing oversight of the asset/liability management process on a periodic basis. the directives of the alm committee are carried out and monitored through alm working groups which are set up to manage by product type. metlife establishes target asset portfolios for each major insurance product, which represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund its liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. these strategies are monitored through regular review of portfolio metrics, such as effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality by the alm working groups. metlife does not expect to make any material changes to its asset/liability management practices in 2009. market risk exposures the company has exposure to market risk through its insurance operations and investment activities. for purposes of this disclosure, market risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rates. the company exposure to interest rate changes results most significantly from its holdings of fixed maturity securities, as well as its interest rate sensitive liabilities. the fixed maturity securities include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds and mortgage-backed securities, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium- and long-term interest rates. the interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include debt, policyholder account balances related to certain investment type contracts, and net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts which have the same type of 238 table of contents interest rate exposure (medium- and long-term interest rates) as fixed maturity securities. the company employs product design, pricing and asset/liability management strategies to reduce the adverse effects of interest rate movements. product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products and the ability to reset credited rates for certain products. asset/liability management strategies include the use of derivatives and duration mismatch limits. see risk factors changes in market interest rates may significantly affect our profitability. foreign currency exchange rates. the company exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar results from its holdings in non-u.s. dollar denominated fixed maturity and equity securities, mortgage and consumer loans, and certain liabilities, as well as through its investments in foreign subsidiaries. the principal currencies that create foreign currency exchange rate risk in the company investment portfolios are the euro, the canadian dollar and the british pound. the principal currencies that create foreign currency exchange risk in the company liabilities are the british pound, the euro, the canadian dollar and the swiss franc. selectively, the company uses u.s. dollar assets to support certain long duration foreign currency liabilities. through its investments in foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures, the company is primarily exposed to the mexican peso, the japanese yen, the south korean won, the canadian dollar, the british pound, the chilean peso, the australian dollar, the argentine peso and the hong kong dollar. in addition to hedging with foreign currency swaps, forwards and options, in some countries, local surplus is held entirely or in part in u.s. dollar assets which further minimizes exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. the company has matched much of its foreign currency liabilities in its foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency assets, thereby reducing its risk to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. equity prices. the company has exposure to equity prices through certain liabilities that involve long-term guarantees on equity performance such as variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefit riders, certain policyholder account balances along with investments in equity securities. we manage this risk on an integrated basis with other risks through our asset/liability management strategies including the dynamic hedging of certain variable annuity riders. the company also manages equity price risk incurred in its investment portfolio through the use of derivatives. equity exposures associated with other limited partnership interests are excluded from this section as they are not considered financial instruments under generally accepted accounting principles. management of market risk exposures the company uses a variety of strategies to manage interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity price risk, including the use of derivative instruments. interest rate risk management. to manage interest rate risk, the company analyzes interest rate risk using various models, including multi-scenario cash flow projection models that forecast cash flows of the liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivative instruments. these projections involve evaluating the potential gain or loss on most of the company in-force business under various increasing and decreasing interest rate environments. the new york state insurance department regulations require that metlife perform some of these analyses annually as part of metlife review of the sufficiency of its regulatory reserves. for several of its legal entities, the company maintains segmented operating and surplus asset portfolios for the purpose of asset/liability management and the allocation of investment income to product lines. for each segment, invested assets greater than or equal to the gaap liabilities less the dac asset and any non-invested assets allocated to the segment are maintained, with any excess swept to the surplus segment. the operating segments may reflect differences in legal entity, statutory line of business and any product market characteristic which may drive a distinct investment strategy with respect to duration, liquidity or credit quality of the invested assets. certain smaller entities make use of unsegmented general accounts for which the investment strategy reflects the aggregate characteristics of liabilities in those entities. the company measures relative sensitivities of the value of its assets and liabilities to changes in key assumptions utilizing company models. these models reflect specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting rates. in addition, these models include asset cash flow projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage prepayments and defaults. 239 table of contents common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, are also used to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and liability values to changes in interest rates. in computing the duration of liabilities, consideration is given to all policyholder guarantees and to how the company intends to set indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or dividends. each asset portfolio has a duration target based on the liability duration and the investment objectives of that portfolio. where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity of available assets, as is the case with certain retirement and non-medical health products, the company may support such liabilities with equity investments, derivatives or curve mismatch strategies. foreign currency exchange rate risk management. foreign currency exchange rate risk is assumed primarily in three ways: investments in foreign subsidiaries, purchases of foreign currency denominated investments in the investment portfolio and the sale of certain insurance products. the company treasury department is responsible for managing the exposure to investments in foreign subsidiaries. limits to exposures are established and monitored by the treasury department and managed by the investment department. the investment department is responsible for managing the exposure to foreign currency investments. exposure limits to unhedged foreign currency investments are incorporated into the standing authorizations granted to management by the board of directors and are reported to the board of directors on a periodic basis. the lines of business are responsible for establishing limits and managing any foreign exchange rate exposure caused by the sale or issuance of insurance products. metlife uses foreign currency swaps and forwards to hedge its foreign currency denominated fixed income investments, its equity exposure in subsidiaries and its foreign currency exposures caused by the sale of insurance products. equity price risk management. equity price risk incurred through the issuance of variable annuities is managed by the company asset/liability management unit in partnership with the investment department. equity price risk is also incurred through its investment in equity securities and is managed by its investment department. metlife uses derivatives to hedge its equity exposure both in certain liability guarantees such as variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefit riders and equity securities. these derivatives include exchange-traded equity futures, equity index options contracts and equity variance swaps. the company derivative hedges performed effectively through the extreme movements in the equity markets during the latter part of 2008. the company also employs reinsurance to manage these exposures. hedging activities. metlife uses derivative contracts primarily to hedge a wide range of risks including interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, and equity risk. derivative hedges are designed to reduce risk on an economic basis while considering their impact on accounting results and gaap and statutory capital. the construction of the company derivative hedge programs vary depending on the type of risk being hedged. some hedge programs are asset or liability specific while others are portfolio hedges that reduce risk related to a group of liabilities or assets. the company use of derivatives by major hedge programs is as follows: risks related to living benefit riders the company uses a wide range of derivative contracts to hedge the risk associated with variable annuity living benefit riders. these hedges include equity and interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, currency futures/forwards, equity indexed options and interest rate option contracts and equity variance swaps. minimum interest rate guarantees for certain company liability contracts, the company provides the contractholder a guaranteed minimum interest rate. these contracts include certain fixed annuities and other insurance liabilities. the company purchases interest rate floors to reduce risk associated with these liability guarantees. reinvestment risk in long duration liability contracts derivatives are used to hedge interest rate risk related to certain long duration liability contracts, such as long term care. hedges include zero coupon interest rate swaps and swaptions. 240 table of contents foreign currency risk the company uses currency swaps and forwards to hedge foreign currency risk. these hedges primarily swap foreign denominated bonds or equity exposures to us dollars. general alm hedging strategies in the ordinary course of managing the company asset/liability risks, the company uses interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, interest rate floors and inflation swaps. these hedges are designed to reduce interest rate risk or inflation risk related to the existing assets or liabilities or related to expected future cash flows. risk measurement: sensitivity analysis the company measures market risk related to its market sensitive assets and liabilities based on changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates utilizing a sensitivity analysis. this analysis estimates the potential changes in estimated fair value based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, equity market prices and foreign currency exchange rates. the company believes that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the near-term. in performing the analysis summarized below, the company used market rates at december 31, 2008. the sensitivity analysis separately calculates each of the company market risk exposures (interest rate, equity price and foreign currency exchange rate) relating to its trading and non trading assets and liabilities. the company modeled the impact of changes in market rates and prices on the estimated fair values of its market sensitive assets and liabilities as follows: the net present values of its interest rate sensitive exposures resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates; the u.s. dollar equivalent estimated fair values of the company foreign currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in foreign currency exchange rates; and the estimated fair value of its equity positions due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity market prices. the sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as predictive of the company future financial performance. the company cannot ensure that its actual losses in any particular year will not exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. limitations related to this sensitivity analysis include: the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgages; the derivatives that qualify as hedges, the impact on reported earnings may be materially different from the change in market values; the analysis excludes other significant real estate holdings and liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts; and the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains unchanged throughout the year. accordingly, the company uses such models as tools and not as substitutes for the experience and judgment of its management. based on its analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and prices, metlife has determined that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the estimated fair value of certain assets and liabilities from interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity exposures. 241 table of contents the table below illustrates the potential loss in estimated fair value for each market risk exposure of the company market sensitive assets and liabilities at december 31, 2008: december 31, 2008 (in millions) non-trading: interest rate risk $ 4,695 foreign currency exchange rate risk $ 522 equity price risk $ 176 trading: interest rate risk $ 4 foreign currency exchange rate risk $ 4 242 table of contents sensitivity analysis; interest rates. the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in fair value of the company trading and non-trading interest sensitive financial instruments at december 31, 2008 by type of asset or liability: december 31, 2008 assuming a 10% increase notional estimated in the yield amount fair value(3) curve (in millions) assets fixed maturity securities $ 188,251 $ (2,814 ) equity securities 3,197 trading securities 946 (4 ) mortgage and consumer loans: held-for-investment 48,133 (155 ) held-for-sale 2,010 (6 ) mortgage and consumer loans, net 50,143 (161 ) policy loans 11,952 (146 ) real estate joint ventures (1) 176 other limited partnership interests (1) 2,269 short-term investments 13,878 (3 ) other invested assets: mortgage servicing rights 191 (2 ) other 900 (7 ) cash and cash equivalents 24,207 accrued investment income 3,061 premiums and other receivables 3,473 (216 ) other assets 629 (49 ) assets of subsidiaries held-for-sale 649 (6 ) net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) 205 (19 ) mortgage loan commitments $ 2,690 (129 ) (6 ) commitments to fund bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments 979 (105 ) total assets $ (3,433 ) liabilities policyholder account balances $ 102,902 $ 878 short-term debt 2,659 long-term debt 8,155 143 collateral financing arrangements 1,880 junior subordinated debt securities 2,606 30 payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions 31,059 other liabilities: trading liabilities 57 other 638 liabilities of subsidiaries held-for-sale 49 net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) 3,051 216 total liabilities $ 1,267 other derivative instruments (designated hedges or otherwise) interest rate swaps $ 34,060 $ 3,149 $ (550 ) interest rate floors 48,517 1,748 (173 ) interest rate caps 24,643 11 4 financial futures 19,908 (160 ) (1,565 ) foreign currency swaps 19,438 87 (46 ) foreign currency forwards 5,167 24 1 options 8,450 3,127 (199 ) financial forwards 28,176 296 (5 ) credit default swaps 5,219 83 synthetic gics 4,260 other 250 (101 ) total other $ (2,533 ) net change $ (4,699 ) 243 table of contents (1) represents only those investments accounted for using the cost method. (2) embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. (3) separate account assets and liabilities which are interest rate sensitive are not included herein as any interest rate risk is borne by the holder of the separate account. this quantitative measure of risk has decreased by $489 million, or approximately 9%, to $4,699 million at december 31, 2008 from $5,188 million at december 31, 2007. from december 31, 2007 to december 31, 2008 there was a decline in interest rates across both the swaps and treasury curves which resulted in a decrease in the interest rate risk by $2,860 million. in addition, the interest rate risk declined by $755 million due to a reduction in the asset base and by $414 million due to the completion of the company split-off of its 52% ownership in rga. a change in the method of estimating the fair value of liabilities in connection with the adoption of sfas 157 further reduced the interest rate risk by $254 million. partially offsetting the decline was an increase in the interest rate risk from the use of derivatives employed by the company by $2,151 million, primarily related to financial futures and interest rate swaps. changes in the duration of the company portfolio also attributed $1,312 million to partially offset the decline in interest rate risk. the inclusion of certain reinsurance recoverables within premiums and other receivables also increased the interest rate risk by $216 million. the remainder of the fluctuation is attributable to numerous immaterial items. in addition to the analysis above, as part of its asset liability management program, the company also performs an analysis of the sensitivity to changes in interest rates, including both insurance liabilities and financial instruments. at december 31, 2008, a hypothetical instantaneous 10% decrease in interest rates applied to the company liabilities, insurance and associated asset portfolios would reduce the estimated fair value of equity by $962 million. 244 table of contents sensitivity analysis; foreign currency exchange rates. the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of the company portfolio due to a 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates at december 31, 2008 by type of asset or liability: december 31, 2008 assuming a 10% increase notional estimated in the foreign amount fair value(1) exchange rate (in millions) assets fixed maturity securities $ 188,251 $ (1,586 ) trading securities 946 (4 ) mortgage and consumer loans: held-for-investment 48,133 (311 ) held-for-sale 2,010 (13 ) mortgage and consumer loans, net 50,143 (324 ) policy loans 11,952 (40 ) short-term investments 13,878 (69 ) cash and cash equivalents 24,207 (90 ) total assets $ (2,113 ) liabilities policyholder account balances $ 102,902 $ 1,426 long-term debt 8,155 60 total liabilities $ 1,486 other derivative instruments (designated hedges or otherwise) interest rate swaps $ 34,060 $ 3,149 $ (18 ) interest rate floors 48,517 1,748 interest rate caps 24,643 11 financial futures 19,908 (160 ) 2 foreign currency swaps 19,438 87 (26 ) foreign currency forwards 5,167 24 239 options 8,450 3,127 (90 ) financial forwards 28,176 296 (6 ) credit default swaps 5,219 83 synthetic gics 4,260 other 250 (101 ) total other $ 101 net change $ (526 ) (1) estimated fair value presented in the table above represents the estimated fair value of all financial instruments within this financial statement caption not necessarily those solely subject to foreign exchange risk. foreign currency exchange rate risk decreased by $185 million, or 26%, to $526 million at december 31, 2008 from $711 million at december 31, 2007. from december 31, 2007 to december 31, 2008 a decline in the exchange rate of the euro, british pound, the mexican and chilean pesos versus the u.s. dollar resulted in the decline of the foreign currency exchange risk on fixed maturity securities by $446 million. partially offsetting the decline in 245 table of contents foreign currency exchange risk was the exclusion of certain items due to the completion of the company split-off of its 52% ownership in rga which accounted for $296 million reduction to the foreign currency risk. in addition, the foreign currency exchange risk associated with long-term debt declined by $80 million due the weakening of the british pound against the u.s. dollar. the remainder of the fluctuation is attributable to numerous immaterial items. sensitivity analysis; equity prices. the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of the company portfolio due to a 10% change in equity at december 31, 2008 by type of asset or liability: december 31, 2008 assuming a 10% increase notional estimated in equity amount fair value(1) prices (in millions) assets equity securities $ 3,197 $ 218 net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) 205 (15 ) total assets $ 203 liabilities policyholder account balances $ 102,902 $ 121 net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) 3,051 240 total liabilities $ 361 other derivative instruments (designated hedges or otherwise) interest rate swaps $ 34,060 $ 3,149 interest rate floors 48,517 1,748 interest rate caps 24,643 11 financial futures 19,908 (160 ) (626 ) foreign currency swaps 19,438 87 foreign currency forwards 5,167 24 options 8,450 3,127 (137 ) financial forwards 28,176 296 3 credit default swaps 5,219 83 synthetic gics 4,260 other 250 (101 ) 20 total other $ (740 ) net change $ (176 ) (1) estimated fair value presented in the table above represents the estimated fair value of all financial instruments within this financial statement caption not necessarily those solely subject to equity price risk. (2) embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. equity price risk increased by $80 million, or 83%, to $176 million at december 31, 2008 from $96 million at december 31, 2007. the increase was primarily attributed to the increased use of equity derivatives employed by the company to hedge its equity exposures, particularly the use of financial futures and options. an increase in liabilities, particularly variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefit riders, during 2008 partially offset the increase in equity price risk. 246 table of contentsrisk factors 27 risk factors difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations and these conditions may not improve in the near future our business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the united states and elsewhere around the world. the stress experienced by global capital markets that began in the second half of 2007 continued and substantially increased during 2008 and into 2009. concerns over the availability and cost of credit, the u.s. mortgage market, geopolitical issues, energy costs, inflation and a declining real estate market in the united states contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the economy and the markets in the near term. these factors, combined with declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, precipitated a recession. most economists believe this recession ended in the third quarter of 2009, when positive growth returned, and now expect positive growth will continue in 2010. however, the expected recovery is weaker than normal, and the unemployment rate is expected to remain high for some time. in addition, the fixed-income markets have experienced a period of extreme volatility which negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. initially, the concerns on the part of market participants were focused on the sub-prime segment of the mortgage-backed securities market. however, these concerns expanded to include a broad range of mortgage- and asset-backed and other fixed income securities, including those rated investment grade, the u.s. and international credit and interbank money markets generally, and a wide range of financial institutions and markets, asset classes and sectors. securities that are less liquid are more difficult to value and have less opportunity for disposal. domestic and international equity markets have also experienced heightened volatility and turmoil, with issuers (such as our company) that have exposure to the real estate, mortgage and credit markets particularly affected. these events and continued market upheavals may have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and are also dependent upon customer behavior. our revenues are likely to decline in such circumstances and our profit margins could erode. in addition, in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the global credit crisis, we could incur significant capital or operating losses. even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. we are a significant writer of variable annuity products. the account values of these products decrease as a result of downturns in capital markets. decreases in account values reduce the fees generated by our variable annuity products, cause the amortization of deferred acquisition costs to accelerate and could increase the level of liabilities we must carry to support those variable annuities issued with any associated guarantees. factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and 27 table of contents profitability of our business. in an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. in addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the recent market turmoil has also raised the possibility of legislative, regulatory and governmental actions. we cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur, or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. see actions of the u.s. government, federal reserve bank of new york and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing and revitalizing the financial markets and protecting investors and consumers may not achieve the intended effect or could adversely affect metlife competitive position, our insurance and banking businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth and competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability . adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital the capital and credit markets are sometimes subject to periods of extreme volatility and disruption. such volatility and disruption could cause liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers to be limited. we need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock, maintain our securities lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities. without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our operations, and our business will suffer. the principal sources of our liquidity are insurance premiums, annuity considerations, deposit funds, and cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash. sources of liquidity in normal markets also include short-term instruments such as repurchase agreements and commercial paper. sources of capital in normal markets include long-term instruments, medium- and long-term debt, junior subordinated debt securities, capital securities and equity securities. in the event market or other conditions have an adverse impact on our capital and liquidity beyond expectations and our current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing. the availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, regulatory considerations, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreased due to a market downturn. similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. our liquidity requirements may change if, among other things, we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral on short notice under securities lending agreements. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business, most significantly our insurance operations. such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy statutory capital requirements; and access the capital necessary to grow our business. as such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue different types of securities than we would otherwise, less effectively deploy such capital, issue shorter tenor securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. 28 table of contents actions of the u.s. government, federal reserve bank of new york and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing and revitalizing the financial markets and protecting investors and consumers may not achieve the intended effect or could adversely affect metlife competitive position in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, on october 3, 2008, president bush signed the emergency economic stabilization act of 2008 ( eesa ) into law. pursuant to eesa, the u.s. treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgage-backed and other securities (including newly issued preferred shares and subordinated debt) from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets. the u.s. federal government, the federal reserve bank of new york, the fdic and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis. for example, the federal reserve bank of new york made funds available to commercial and financial companies under a number of programs, including the commercial paper funding facility, which expired in early 2010. the u.s. treasury has established programs based in part on eesa and in part on the separate authority of the federal reserve board and the fdic, to foster purchases from and by banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions of certain kinds of assets for which valuations have been low and markets weak. some of the programs established by governmental and regulatory bodies have recently been discontinued or will be in the near term. we cannot predict what impact, if any, this could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. although such actions appear to have provided some stability to the financial markets, our business, financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected to the extent that credit availability and prices for financial assets revert to their low levels of late 2008 and early 2009 or do not continue to improve. furthermore, congress has considered, and may consider in the future, legislative proposals that could impact the estimated fair value of mortgage loans, such as legislation that would permit bankruptcy courts to rewrite the terms of a mortgage contract, including reducing the principal balance of mortgage loans owed by bankrupt borrowers. if such legislation is enacted, it could cause loss of principal on certain of our non-agency prime rmbs holdings and could cause a ratings downgrade in such holdings which, in turn, would cause an increase in unrealized losses on such securities and increase the risk-based capital that we must hold to support such securities. see we are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and our net investment income can vary from period to period. in addition, the u.s. federal government (including the fdic) and private lenders have begun programs to reduce the monthly payment obligations of mortgagors and/or reduce the principal payable on residential mortgage loans. as a result, we may need to maintain or increase our engagement in similar activities in order to comply with program requirements and to remain competitive. we cannot predict whether the funds made available by the u.s. federal government and its agencies will be enough to continue stabilizing or to further revive the financial markets or, if additional amounts are necessary, whether congress will be willing to make the necessary appropriations, what the public sentiment would be towards any such appropriations, or what additional requirements or conditions might be imposed on the use of any such additional funds. president obama has proposed a financial crisis responsibility fee which would be imposed on financial firms with more than $50 billion in consolidated assets. the fee is intended to recover the cost of the troubled assets relief program established under eesa, which the obama administration currently estimates will be $117 billion. the fee would be imposed annually on covered financial firms for at least ten years and possibly longer. as a bank holding company with more than $50 billion of consolidated assets, metlife appears to be subject to the proposed fee. full details of the proposed fee, the companies subject to it, and the manner in which it would be assessed have not yet been released, so we cannot estimate its financial impact on us. however, it is possible that the proposed fee could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. the choices made by the u.s. treasury, the federal reserve board and the fdic in their distribution of amounts available under eesa and any of the proposed new asset purchase programs could have the effect of supporting some aspects of the financial services industry more than others. some of our competitors have received, or may in the future receive, funding under one or more of the federal government capital infusion programs. this 29 table of contents could adversely affect our competitive position. see competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability. see also proposals to regulate compensation, if implemented, could hinder or prevent us from attracting and retaining management and other employees with the talent and experience to manage and conduct our business effectively and our insurance and banking businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. our insurance and banking businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth our insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of insurance and other laws and regulations. see business regulation insurance regulation. state insurance laws regulate most aspects of our u.s. insurance businesses, and our insurance subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled and the states in which they are licensed. our non-u.s. insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled and operate. state laws in the united states grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things: licensing companies and agents to transact business; calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements; mandating certain insurance benefits; regulating certain premium rates; reviewing and approving policy forms; regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution arrangements and payment of inducements; regulating advertising; protecting privacy; establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency standards; fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity contracts; approving changes in control of insurance companies; restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates; and regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments. state insurance guaranty associations have the right to assess insurance companies doing business in their state for funds to help pay the obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. because the amount and timing of an assessment is beyond our control, the liabilities that we have currently established for these potential liabilities may not be adequate. see business regulation insurance regulation guaranty associations and similar arrangements. state insurance regulators and the naic regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the naic and several states legislatures have considered the need for regulations and/or laws to address agent or broker practices that have been the focus of investigations of broker compensation in the state of new york and in 30 table of contents other jurisdictions. the naic adopted a compensation disclosure amendment to its producers licensing model act which, if adopted by the states, would require disclosure by agents or brokers to customers that insurers will compensate such agents or brokers for the placement of insurance and documented acknowledgement of this arrangement in cases where the customer also compensates the agent or broker. several states have enacted laws similar to the naic amendment. others have enacted laws or proposed disclosure regulations which, under differing circumstances, require disclosure of specific compensation earned by a producer on the sale of an insurance or annuity product. we cannot predict how many states may promulgate the naic amendment or alternative regulations or the extent to which these regulations may have a material adverse impact on our business. currently, the u.s. federal government does not directly regulate the business of insurance. however, federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies. these areas include financial services regulation, securities regulation, pension regulation, health care regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. in addition, various forms of direct and indirect federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time, including proposals for the establishment of an optional federal charter for insurance companies. as part of a proposed comprehensive reform of financial services regulation, congress is considering the creation of an office within the federal government to collect information about the insurance industry, recommend prudential standards, and represent the united states in dealings with foreign insurance regulators. other aspects of financial services regulatory reform proposals that have been considered could affect our business. for example: the obama administration and congress have made various proposals that would change the capital and liquidity requirements, credit exposure concentrations and similar prudential matters for bank holding companies, banks and other financial firms. bank regulatory agencies have issued proposed interagency guidance for funding and liquidity risk management that would apply to metlife as a bank holding company. the proposals under consideration in congress also include special regulatory and insolvency regimes, including even higher capital, prudential and liquidity standards for financial institutions that are deemed to be systemically significant. these insolvency regimes could vary from the resolution regimes currently applicable to some subsidiaries of such companies and could include assessments on financial companies to provide for a systemic resolution fund. the obama administration, members of congress and federal banking regulators have suggested new or increased taxes or assessments on banks and financial firms to mitigate the costs to taxpayers of various government programs established to address the financial crisis and to offset the costs of potential future crises. see actions of the u.s. government, federal reserve bank of new york and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing and revitalizing the financial markets and protecting investors and consumers may not achieve the intended effect or could adversely affect metlife competitive position. the proposed legislation also includes new conditions on the writing and trading of certain standardized and non-standardized derivatives. the creation of an additional supervisor with authority over metlife, inc. and its subsidiaries, the likelihood of additional regulations, and the other changes discussed above could require changes to metlife operations. whether such changes would affect our competitiveness in comparison to other institutions is uncertain, since it is possible that at least some of our competitors will be similarly affected. competitive effects are possible, however, if metlife, inc. were required to pay any new or increased taxes, or if it were determined to be systemically significant and were subjected to higher capital and liquidity requirements and generally stricter prudential supervisory standards as a result. it is unclear at present whether systemically significant institutions will be helped or hurt competitively if such additional requirements are imposed. we cannot predict whether these or other proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business, financial condition or results of operations or on our dealings with other financial institutions. 31 table of contents as a federally chartered national association, metlife bank is subject to a wide variety of banking laws, regulations and guidelines. federal banking laws regulate most aspects of the business of metlife bank, but certain state laws may apply as well. metlife bank is principally regulated by the occ, the federal reserve and the fdic. federal banking laws and regulations address various aspects of metlife bank business and operations with respect to, among other things: chartering to carry on business as a bank; maintaining minimum capital ratios; capital management in relation to the bank assets; safety and soundness standards; loan loss and other related liabilities; liquidity; financial reporting and disclosure standards; counterparty credit concentration; restrictions on related party and affiliate transactions; lending limits; payment of interest; unfair or deceptive acts or practices; privacy; and bank holding company and bank change of control. furthermore, congress is considering establishing a new governmental agency that would supervise and regulate institutions that provide certain financial products and services to consumers. although the consumer financial services to which this legislation would apply might exclude certain insurance business, the new agency would have authority to regulate consumer services provided by metlife bank. federal pre-emption of state consumer protection laws applicable to banking services may be eliminated or significantly restricted in any financial services regulatory reform legislation that congress may pass, which would increase the regulatory and compliance burden on metlife bank and could adversely affect its business and results of operations. the fdic has the right to assess fdic-insured banks for funds to help pay the obligations of insolvent banks to depositors. because the amount and timing of an assessment is beyond our control, the liabilities that we have currently established for these potential liabilities may not be adequate. federal and state banking regulators regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to banks and their products. changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the bank and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of metlife bank. our international operations are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they operate, which in many ways is similar to that of the state regulation outlined above. many of our customers and independent sales intermediaries also operate in regulated environments. changes in the regulations that affect their operations also may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or distribute our products. accordingly, these changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. see our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability. compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 32 table of contents from time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations or audits of metlife, inc. subsidiaries that could, if determined adversely, have a material impact on us. we cannot predict whether or when regulatory actions may be taken that could adversely affect our operations. in addition, the interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements. we are also subject to other regulations, including banking regulations, and may in the future become subject to additional regulations. see business regulation. we are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and our net investment income can vary from period to period we are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, market volatility, the performance of the economy in general, the performance of the specific obligors included in our portfolio and other factors outside our control. our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates. a rise in interest rates will increase the net unrealized loss position of our fixed income investment portfolio and, if long-term interest rates rise dramatically within a six to twelve month time period, certain of our life insurance businesses may be exposed to disintermediation risk. disintermediation risk refers to the risk that our policyholders may surrender their contracts in a rising interest rate environment, requiring us to liquidate fixed income investments in an unrealized loss position. due to the long-term nature of the liabilities associated with certain of our life insurance businesses, guaranteed benefits on variable annuities, and structured settlements, sustained declines in long-term interest rates may subject us to reinvestment risks and increased hedging costs. in other situations, declines in interest rates may result in increasing the duration of certain life insurance liabilities, creating asset-liability duration mismatches. our investment portfolio also contains interest rate sensitive instruments, such as fixed income securities, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates from governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. a rise in interest rates would increase the net unrealized loss position of our fixed income investment portfolio, offset by our ability to earn higher rates of return on funds reinvested. conversely, a decline in interest rates would decrease the net unrealized loss position of our fixed income investment portfolio, offset by lower rates of return on funds reinvested. our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are primarily focused towards maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration that is approximately equal to the duration of our estimated liability cash flow profile. however, our estimate of the liability cash flow profile may be inaccurate and we may be forced to liquidate fixed income investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to cover the liability. although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our fixed income investments relative to our liabilities. see also changes in market interest rates may significantly affect our profitability. our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads. a widening of credit spreads will increase the net unrealized loss position of the fixed-income investment portfolio, will increase losses associated with credit based non-qualifying derivatives where we assume credit exposure, and, if issuer credit spreads increase significantly or for an extended period of time, would likely result in higher other-than-temporary impairments ( otti ). credit spread tightening will reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed maturity securities. in addition, market volatility can make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent. as such, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period to period changes which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. credit spreads on both corporate and structured securities widened significantly during 2008, resulting in continuing depressed pricing. as a result of improved conditions, credit spreads narrowed in 2009. if there is a resumption of significant volatility in the markets, it could cause changes in credit spreads and defaults and a lack of pricing transparency which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, 33 table of contents liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses, impairments, and changes in unrealized loss positions. see also guarantees within certain of our variable annuity guarantee benefits that protect policyholders against significant downturns in equity markets may increase the volatility of our results related to the inclusion of an own credit adjustment in the estimated fair value of the liability for these guaranteed benefits. our primary exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with certain of our insurance businesses where fee income is earned based upon the estimated fair value of the assets under management. equity market downturns and volatility may discourage purchases of separate account products, such as variable annuities and variable life insurance that have underlying mutual funds with returns linked to the performance of the equity markets, and may cause some of our existing customers to withdraw cash values or reduce investments in those products. in addition, downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a material adverse effect on the revenues and returns from our savings and investment products and services. because these products and services depend on fees related primarily to the value of assets under management, a decline in the equity markets could reduce our revenues by reducing the value of the investments we manage. the retail annuity business in particular is highly sensitive to equity markets, and a sustained weakness in the equity markets could decrease revenues and earnings in variable annuity products. furthermore, certain of our annuity products offer guaranteed benefits which increase our potential benefit exposure should equity markets decline. the company uses derivatives to mitigate the impact of such increased potential benefit exposures. we are also exposed to interest rate and equity risk based upon the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return assumptions associated with our pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. sustained declines in long-term interest rates or equity returns likely would have a negative effect on the funded status of these plans. we also provide certain guarantees within some of our products that protect policyholders against significant downturns in the equity markets. for example, we offer variable annuity products with guaranteed features, such as death benefits, withdrawal benefits, and minimum accumulation and income benefits. in volatile or declining equity market conditions, we may need to increase liabilities for future policy benefits and policyholder account balances, negatively affecting our net income. the company uses derivatives to mitigate the impact of volatile or declining equity market conditions. a decline in equity markets also may reduce the estimated fair value of the investments supporting our pension and post retirement benefit plan obligations, changing the funded status of such plans, and adversely affect our results of operations. lastly, we invest a portion of our investments in equity securities, leveraged buy-out funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds and the estimated fair value of such investments may be impacted by downturns or volatility in equity markets. our primary exposure to real estate risk relates to commercial and agricultural real estate. our exposure to commercial and agricultural real estate risk stems from various factors. these factors include, but are not limited to, market conditions including the demand and supply of space, creditworthiness of tenants and partners, capital markets volatility and the inherent interest rate movement. recently, a significantly weakened economic environment has led to declining commercial real estate tenant demand, increasing vacancy rates and declining property incomes. in addition, capital market conditions and accessibility to financing has prompted an increase in the risk premiums assessed in the sector. these trends have resulted in decreases in the value of our equity commercial real estate holdings, and deterioration in the value of the collateral securing our commercial mortgages. in addition, our real estate joint venture development program is subject to risks including, but not limited to, reduced property sales and decreased availability of financing which could adversely impact the joint venture developments and/or operations. the state of the economy and speed of recovery in fundamental and capital market conditions in the commercial and agricultural real estate sectors will continue to influence the performance of our investments in these sectors. these factors and others beyond our control could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows through net investment income, realized investment losses and impairments. our primary foreign currency exchange risks are described under fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and foreign securities markets could negatively affect our profitability. significant declines in equity prices, changes in u.s. interest rates, changes in credit spreads, and changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. changes in these factors, which are significant risks to us, can affect our net investment income in any period, and such changes can be substantial. 34 table of contents a portion of our investments are made in leveraged buy-out funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds reported within other limited partnership interests, many of which make private equity investments. the amount and timing of net investment income from such investment funds tends to be uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying investments, including private equity investments. the timing of distributions from the funds, which depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds schedules for making distributions and their needs for cash, can be difficult to predict. as a result, the amount of net investment income that we record from these investments can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. recent equity, real estate and credit market volatility have further reduced net investment income and related yields for these types of investments and we may continue to experience reduced net investment income due to continued volatility in the equity, real estate and credit markets in 2010. in 2009, the disruption in the global financial markets moderated, although not all markets are functioning normally and many remain reliant upon government investments and liquidity. continuing challenges include continued weakness in the u.s. real estate market and increased mortgage loan delinquencies, investor anxiety over the u.s. economy, rating agency downgrades of various structured products and financial issuers, unresolved issues with structured investment vehicles and monoline financial guarantee insurers, deleveraging of financial institutions and hedge funds and a serious dislocation in the inter-bank market. if there is a resumption of significant volatility in the markets, it could cause changes in interest rates, declines in equity prices, and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses, impairments, and changes in unrealized loss positions. changes in market interest rates may significantly affect our profitability some of our products, principally traditional whole life insurance, fixed annuities and guaranteed interest contracts, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our spread, or the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts in our general account and the rate of return we are able to earn on general account investments intended to support obligations under the contracts. our spread is a key component of our net income. as interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, reducing our investment margin. moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the fixed income securities, commercial or agricultural mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio with greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates, which exacerbates this risk. lowering interest crediting rates can help offset decreases in investment margins on some products. however, our ability to lower these rates could be limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. as a result, our spread could decrease or potentially become negative. our expectation for future spreads is an important component in the amortization of dac and voba, and significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period. in addition, during periods of declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be relatively more attractive investments to consumers, resulting in increased premium payments on products with flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans and increased persistency, or a higher percentage of insurance policies remaining in force from year to year, during a period when our new investments carry lower returns. a decline in market interest rates could also reduce our return on investments that do not support particular policy obligations. accordingly, declining interest rates may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows and significantly reduce our profitability. the sufficiency of our life insurance statutory reserves in taiwan is highly sensitive to interest rates and other related assumptions. this is due to the sustained low interest rate environment in taiwan coupled with long-term interest rate guarantees of approximately 6% embedded in the life and health contracts sold prior to 2003 and the lack of availability of long-duration investments in the taiwanese capital markets to match such long-duration liabilities. the key assumptions include current taiwan government bond yield rates increasing from current levels of 1.8% to 3.0% over the next ten years, a modest increase in lapse rates, mortality and morbidity levels remaining consistent with recent experience, and u.s. dollar-denominated investments making up 35% of total assets backing 35 table of contents life insurance statutory reserves. current statutory reserve adequacy analysis shows that provisions are adequate; however, adverse changes in key assumptions for interest rates, lapse experience and mortality and morbidity levels could lead to a need to strengthen reserves. increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect our profitability. in periods of rapidly increasing interest rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, the investments in metlife general account with higher yielding investments needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep interest sensitive products competitive. we, therefore, may have to accept a lower spread and, thus, lower profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of existing contracts and related assets. in addition, policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals may tend to increase as policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns as interest rates rise. this process may result in cash outflows requiring that we sell investments at a time when the prices of those investments are adversely affected by the increase in market interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses. unanticipated withdrawals and terminations may cause us to accelerate the amortization of dac and voba, which would increase our current expenses and reduce net income. an increase in market interest rates could also have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the estimated fair values of the fixed income securities that comprise a substantial portion of our investment portfolio. lastly, an increase in interest rates could result in decreased fee income associated with a decline in the value of variable annuity account balances invested in fixed income funds. some of our investments are relatively illiquid and are in asset classes that have been experiencing significant market valuation fluctuations we hold certain investments that may lack liquidity, such as privately-placed fixed maturity securities; mortgage loans; policy loans and leveraged leases; equity real estate, including real estate joint ventures and funds; and other limited partnership interests. these asset classes represented 33.2% of the carrying value of our total cash and investments at december 31, 2009. even some of our very high quality investments have been more illiquid as a result of the current market conditions. if we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal cash requirements or are required to post or return cash collateral in connection with our investment portfolio, derivatives transactions or securities lending program, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize, or both. the reported value of our relatively illiquid types of investments, our investments in the asset classes described above and, at times, our high quality, generally liquid asset classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest current market price for the asset. if we were forced to sell certain of our investments in the current market, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded them and we could be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices. our participation in a securities lending program subjects us to potential liquidity and other risks we participate in a securities lending program whereby blocks of securities, which are included in fixed maturity securities and short-term investments, are loaned to third parties, primarily brokerage firms and commercial banks. we generally obtain collateral in an amount equal to 102% of the estimated fair value of the loaned securities, which is obtained at the inception of a loan and maintained at a level greater than or equal to 100% for the duration of the loan. in limited instances, during the extraordinary market events beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008 and through part of 2009, we accepted collateral less than 102% at the inception of certain loans, but never less than 100%, of the estimated fair value of such loaned securities. at december 31, 2009, we had no loans outstanding where we had accepted at the inception of the loan collateral less than 102%, of the estimated fair value of such loaned securities. these loans involved u.s. government treasury bills which we considered to have limited variation in their estimated fair value during the term of the loan. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments securities lending. returns of loaned securities by the third parties would require us to return the cash collateral associated with such loaned securities. in addition, in some cases, the maturity of the securities held as invested collateral (i.e., securities that we have purchased with cash received from the third parties) may exceed the term of the related 36 table of contents securities on loan and the estimated fair value may fall below the amount of cash received as collateral and invested. if we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral on short notice and we are forced to sell securities to meet the return obligation, we may have difficulty selling such collateral that is invested in securities in a timely manner, be forced to sell securities in a volatile or illiquid market for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize under normal market conditions, or both. in addition, under stressful capital market and economic conditions, such as those conditions we experienced during 2008 and 2009, liquidity broadly deteriorates, which may further restrict our ability to sell securities. if we decrease the amount of our securities lending activities over time, the amount of investment income generated by these activities will also likely decline. our requirements to pledge collateral or make payments related to declines in estimated fair value of specified assets may adversely affect our liquidity and expose us to counterparty credit risk some of our transactions with financial and other institutions specify the circumstances under which the parties are required to pledge collateral related to any decline in the estimated fair value of the specified assets. in addition, under the terms of some of our transactions, we may be required to make payments to our counterparties related to any decline in the estimated fair value of the specified assets. the amount of collateral we may be required to pledge and the payments we may be required to make under these agreements may increase under certain circumstances, which could adversely affect our liquidity. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital sources collateral financing arrangements and note 12 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities may be realized or result in future impairments, resulting in a reduction in our net income fixed maturity and equity securities classified as available-for-sale, except trading securities, are reported at their estimated fair value. unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale securities are recognized as a component of other comprehensive income (loss) and are, therefore, excluded from net income. our gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities at december 31, 2009 were $10.8 billion. the portion of the $10.8 billion of gross unrealized losses for fixed maturity and equity securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below amortized cost or cost by 20% or more for six months or greater was $5.1 billion at december 31, 2009. the accumulated change in estimated fair value of these available-for-sale securities is recognized in net income when the gain or loss is realized upon the sale of the security or in the event that the decline in estimated fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary and an impairment charge to earnings is taken. realized losses or impairments may have a material adverse effect on our net income in a particular quarterly or annual period. the determination of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our results of operations or financial position the determination of the amount of allowances and impairments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. we update our evaluations regularly and reflect changes in allowances and impairments in net investment losses as such evaluations are revised. there can be no assurance that we have accurately assessed the level of impairments taken and allowances provided as reflected in our consolidated financial statements. furthermore, additional impairments may need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future. historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances. for example, the cost of our fixed maturity and equity securities is adjusted for impairments deemed to be other-than-temporary that are charged to earnings in the period in which the determination is made. the assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on our case-by-case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in estimated fair value. the review of our fixed maturity and equity securities for impairments includes an analysis of the total gross unrealized losses by three categories of securities: (i) securities where the estimated fair 37 table of contents value has declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%; (ii) securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for less than six months; and (iii) securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for six months or greater. additionally, we consider a wide range of factors about the security issuer and use our best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near-term recovery. inherent in our evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. considerations in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to: (i) the length of time and the extent to which the estimated fair value has been below cost or amortized cost; (ii) the potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is experiencing significant financial difficulties; (iii) the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub-sector; (iv) the potential for impairments in certain economically depressed geographic locations; (v) the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has exhausted natural resources; (vi) with respect to fixed maturity securities, whether we have the intent to sell or will more likely than not be required to sell a particular security before recovery of the decline in estimated fair value below cost or amortized cost; (vii) with respect to equity securities, whether we have the ability and intent to hold a particular security for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its estimated fair value to an amount at least equal to its cost; (viii) unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows on mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities; and (ix) other subjective factors, including concentrations and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies. defaults on our mortgage loans and volatility in performance may adversely affect our profitability our mortgage loans face default risk and are principally collateralized by commercial, agricultural and residential properties, as well as automobiles. the carrying value of mortgage loans is stated at original cost net of repayments, amortization of premiums, accretion of discounts and valuation allowances, except for residential mortgage loans held-for-sale accounted for under the fair value option which are carried at estimated fair value, as determined on a recurring basis, and certain commercial and residential mortgage loans carried at the lower of cost or estimated fair value, as determined on a nonrecurring basis. we establish valuation allowances for estimated impairments at the balance sheet date. such valuation allowances are based on the excess carrying value of the loan over the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan original effective interest rate, the estimated fair value of the loan collateral if the loan is in the process of foreclosure or otherwise collateral dependent, or the loan observable market price if the loan is held-for-sale. we also establish valuation allowances for loan losses when a loss contingency exists for pools of loans with similar characteristics, such as mortgage loans based on similar property types or loans having similar loan-to-value or similar debt service coverage factors. at december 31, 2009, loans that were either delinquent or in the process of foreclosure totaled less than 0.5% of our mortgage loan investments. the performance of our mortgage loan investments, however, may fluctuate in the future. in addition, substantially all of our mortgage loans held-for-investment have balloon payment maturities. an increase in the default rate of our mortgage loan investments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition through realized investment losses or increases in our valuation allowances. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments mortgage loans. further, any geographic or sector concentration of our mortgage loans may have adverse effects on our investment portfolios and consequently on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. while we seek to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated. moreover, our ability to sell assets relating to such particular groups of related assets may be limited if other market participants are seeking to sell at the same time. in addition, legislative proposals that would allow or require modifications to the terms of mortgage loans could be enacted. we cannot predict whether these proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business or investments. 38 table of contents the impairment of other financial institutions could adversely affect us we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge funds and other investment funds and other institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. in addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. we also have exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments, non-redeemable and redeemable preferred securities, derivative transactions and equity investments. further, potential action by governments and regulatory bodies in response to the financial crisis affecting the global banking system and financial markets, such as investment, nationalization, conservatorship, receivership and other intervention, whether under existing legal authority or any new authority that may be created, could negatively impact these instruments, securities, transactions and investments. there can be no assurance that any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these investments would not materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. we face unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments or rating actions arising from possible acquisitions and dispositions of businesses or difficulties integrating such businesses we have engaged in dispositions and acquisitions of businesses in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future. there could be unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments, including goodwill impairments, that arise in connection with the businesses that we may sell or the businesses that we may acquire in the future. in addition, there may be liabilities or asset impairments that we fail, or are unable, to discover in the course of performing due diligence investigations on each business that we have acquired or may acquire. furthermore, the use of our own funds as consideration in any acquisition would consume capital resources that would no longer be available for other corporate purposes. moreover, as a result of uncertainty and risks associated with potential acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, rating agencies may take certain actions with respect to the ratings assigned to metlife, inc. and/or its subsidiaries. see business company ratings rating actions. our ability to achieve certain benefits we anticipate from any acquisitions of businesses will depend in large part upon our ability to successfully integrate such businesses in an efficient and effective manner. we may not be able to integrate such businesses smoothly or successfully, and the process may take longer than expected. the integration of operations may require the dedication of significant management resources, which may distract management attention from day-to-day business. if we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of such acquired businesses, we may be unable to realize the benefits we expect to achieve as a result of such acquisitions and our business and results of operations may be less than expected. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and foreign securities markets could negatively affect our profitability we are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar resulting from our holdings of non-u.s. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries and net income from foreign operations and issuance of non-u.s. dollar denominated instruments, including guaranteed interest contracts and funding agreements. these risks relate to potential decreases in estimated fair value and income resulting from a strengthening or weakening in foreign exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar. in general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the u.s. dollar will adversely affect the estimated fair value of our non-u.s. dollar denominated investments and our investments in foreign subsidiaries. although we use foreign currency swaps and forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk, we cannot provide assurance that these methods will be effective or that our counterparties will perform their obligations. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. from time to time, various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies. our exposure to foreign exchange rate risk is exacerbated by our investments in certain emerging markets. 39 table of contents we have matched substantially all of our foreign currency liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with investments denominated in their respective foreign currency, which limits the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuation on local operating results; however, fluctuations in such rates affect the translation of these results into our u.s. dollar basis consolidated financial statements. although we take certain actions to address this risk, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation could materially adversely affect our reported results due to unhedged positions or the failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that we do not face in our domestic operations. we face the risk of discriminatory regulation, nationalization or expropriation of assets, price controls and exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold into u.s. dollars or other currencies. some of our foreign insurance operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where these risks are heightened. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in addition, we rely on local sales forces in these countries and may encounter labor problems resulting from workers associations and trade unions in some countries. in japan, china and india we operate with local business partners with the resulting risk of managing partner relationships to the business objectives. if our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training the sales force in that country. we are currently planning to expand our international operations in certain markets where we operate and in selected new markets. this may require considerable management time, as well as start-up expenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. operations in new foreign markets may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in existing markets may be affected by local economic and market conditions. therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not achieve expected operating margins and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. in recent years, the operating environment in argentina has been very challenging. in argentina, we were formerly principally engaged in the pension business. in december 2008, the argentine government nationalized private pensions and seized the pension funds investments, eliminating the private pensions business in argentina. as a result, we have experienced and will continue to experience reductions in the operation revenues and cash flows. the argentine government now controls all assets which previously were managed by our argentine pension operations. further governmental or legal actions related to our operations in argentina could negatively impact our operations in argentina and result in future losses. see also changes in market interest rates may significantly affect our profitability regarding the impact of low interest rates on our taiwanese operations. as a holding company, metlife, inc. depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to transfer funds to it to meet its obligations and pay dividends metlife, inc. is a holding company for its insurance and financial subsidiaries and does not have any significant operations of its own. dividends from its subsidiaries and permitted payments to it under its tax sharing arrangements with its subsidiaries are its principal sources of cash to meet its obligations and to pay preferred and common dividends. if the cash metlife, inc. receives from its subsidiaries is insufficient for it to fund its debt service and other holding company obligations, metlife, inc. may be required to raise cash through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of additional equity or the sale of assets. the payment of dividends and other distributions to metlife, inc. by its insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. in general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits require insurance regulatory approval. in addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of dividends or other payments by its insurance subsidiaries to metlife, inc. if they determine that the payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. see business regulation insurance regulation and note 18 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and 40 table of contents results of operations liquidity and capital resources the holding company liquidity and capital sources dividends from subsidiaries. any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or advances by our foreign subsidiaries to metlife, inc. could be subject to taxation or other restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdiction in which such foreign subsidiaries operate. see our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability. a downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could result in a loss of business and materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations financial strength ratings, which various nationally recognized statistical rating organizations (each, an nrsro ) publish as indicators of an insurance company ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations, are important to maintaining public confidence in our products, our ability to market our products and our competitive position. see business company ratings insurer financial strength ratings. downgrades in our financial strength ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including: reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other investment products; adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and independent sales intermediaries; materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders; requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and services to remain competitive; and adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices or at all. in addition to the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries, various nrsros also publish credit ratings for metlife, inc. and several of its subsidiaries. credit ratings are indicators of a debt issuer ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner and are important factors in our overall funding profile and ability to access certain types of liquidity. see business company ratings credit ratings. downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including adversely limiting our access to capital markets, potentially increasing the cost of debt, and requiring us to post collateral. for example, with respect to derivative transactions with credit ratings downgrade triggers, a two-notch downgrade would have impacted our derivative collateral requirements by $146 million at december 31, 2009. also, $480 million of liabilities associated with funding agreements and other capital market products were subject to credit ratings downgrade triggers that permit early termination subject to a notice period of 90 days. in view of the difficulties experienced during 2008 and 2009 by many financial institutions, including our competitors in the insurance industry, we believe it is possible that the nrsros will continue to heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to such institutions, will continue to increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, will continue to request additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the nrsro models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. rating agencies use an outlook statement of positive, stable, negative or developing to indicate a medium- or long-term trend in credit fundamentals which, if continued, may lead to a ratings change. a rating may have a stable outlook to indicate that the rating is not expected to change; however, a stable rating does not preclude a rating agency from changing a rating at any time, without notice. certain rating agencies assign rating modifiers such as creditwatch or under review to indicate their opinion regarding the potential direction of a rating. these ratings modifiers are generally assigned in connection with certain events such as potential mergers and acquisitions, or material changes in a company results, in order for the rating agencies to perform its analysis to fully determine the rating implications of the event. certain rating agencies have recently implemented rating actions, including downgrades, outlook changes and modifiers, for metlife, inc. and certain of its subsidiaries insurer financial strength and credit ratings. see business company ratings rating actions. 41 table of contents we cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. as with other companies in the financial services industry, our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without any notice by any nrsro. an inability to access our credit facilities could result in a reduction in our liquidity and lead to downgrades in our credit and financial strength ratings we have a $2.85 billion five-year revolving credit facility that matures in june 2012, as well as other facilities which we enter into in the ordinary course of business. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the holding company liquidity and capital sources credit and committed facilities and note 11 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. we rely on our credit facilities as a potential source of liquidity. the availability of these facilities could be critical to our credit and financial strength ratings and our ability to meet our obligations as they come due in a market when alternative sources of credit are tight. the credit facilities contain certain administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants. we must comply with covenants under our credit facilities (including the $2.85 billion five-year revolving credit facility), including a requirement to maintain a specified minimum consolidated net worth. our right to make borrowings under these facilities is subject to the fulfillment of certain important conditions, including our compliance with all covenants, and our ability to borrow under these facilities is also subject to the continued willingness and ability of the lenders that are parties to the facilities to provide funds. our failure to comply with the covenants in the credit facilities or fulfill the conditions to borrowings, or the failure of lenders to fund their lending commitments (whether due to insolvency, illiquidity or other reasons) in the amounts provided for under the terms of the facilities, would restrict our ability to access these credit facilities when needed and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. defaults, downgrades or other events impairing the carrying value of our fixed maturity or equity securities portfolio may reduce our earnings we are subject to the risk that the issuers, or guarantors, of fixed maturity securities we own may default on principal and interest payments they owe us. we are also subject to the risk that the underlying collateral within loan-backed securities, including mortgage-backed securities, may default on principal and interest payments causing an adverse change in cash flows paid to our investment. fixed maturity securities represent a significant portion of our investment portfolio. the occurrence of a major economic downturn (such as the downturn in the economy during late 2008 and 2009), acts of corporate malfeasance, widening risk spreads, or other events that adversely affect the issuers, guarantors or underlying collateral of these securities could cause the estimated fair value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio and our earnings to decline and the default rate of the fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio to increase. a ratings downgrade affecting issuers or guarantors of particular securities, or similar trends that could worsen the credit quality of issuers, such as the corporate issuers of securities in our investment portfolio, could also have a similar effect. with economic uncertainty, credit quality of issuers or guarantors could be adversely affected. similarly, a ratings downgrade affecting asset-backed securities ( abs ) we hold could indicate the credit quality of that security has deteriorated and could increase the capital we must hold to support that security to maintain our risk-based capital levels. any event reducing the estimated fair value of these securities other than on a temporary basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. levels of writedowns or impairments are impacted by our assessment of intent to sell, or whether it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell, fixed maturity securities and the intent and ability to hold equity securities which have declined in value until recovery. if we determine to reposition or realign portions of the portfolio so as not to hold certain equity securities, or intend to sell or determine that it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell, certain fixed maturity securities in an unrealized loss position prior to recovery, then we will incur an other-than-temporary impairment charge in the period that the decision was made not to hold the equity security to recovery, or to sell, or the determination was made it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the fixed maturity security. 42 table of contents our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business management of risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events. we have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not be comprehensive. many of our methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. as a result, these methods may not fully predict future exposures, which can be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate. other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. this information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses as part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various business segments. see business reinsurance activity. while reinsurance agreements generally bind the reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured at generally fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new business. in certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for business already reinsured may also increase. any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to those policies we issue. if the counterparties to our reinsurance or indemnification arrangements or to the derivative instruments we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations we use reinsurance, indemnification and derivative instruments to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. in general, reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers and indemnitors. we cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that indemnitors will honor their obligations now or in the future or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. a reinsurer or indemnitor insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of reinsurance agreements or indemnity agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various business risks. we enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit default and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments. if our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative instruments, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. this is a more pronounced risk to us in view of the stresses suffered by financial institutions over the past two years. such failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. differences between actual claims experience and underwriting and reserving assumptions may adversely affect our financial results our earnings significantly depend upon the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in setting prices for our products and establishing liabilities for future policy benefits and claims. our liabilities for future policy benefits and claims are established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims. for life insurance and annuity products, we calculate these liabilities based on many assumptions and estimates, including estimated premiums to be received over the assumed 43 table of contents life of the policy, the timing of the event covered by the insurance policy, the amount of benefits or claims to be paid and the investment returns on the investments we make with the premiums we receive. we establish liabilities for property and casualty claims and benefits based on assumptions and estimates of damages and liabilities incurred. to the extent that actual claims experience is less favorable than the underlying assumptions we used in establishing such liabilities, we could be required to increase our liabilities. due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of liabilities for future policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely the amounts which we will ultimately pay to settle our liabilities. such amounts may vary from the estimated amounts, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future. we evaluate our liabilities periodically based on changes in the assumptions used to establish the liabilities, as well as our actual experience. we charge or credit changes in our liabilities to expenses in the period the liabilities are established or re-estimated. if the liabilities originally established for future benefit payments prove inadequate, we must increase them. such increases could affect earnings negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. catastrophes may adversely impact liabilities for policyholder claims and reinsurance availability our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that causes a large number of deaths. significant influenza pandemics have occurred three times in the last century, but neither the likelihood, timing, nor the severity of a future pandemic can be predicted. a significant pandemic could have a major impact on the global economy or the economies of particular countries or regions, including travel, trade, tourism, the health system, food supply, consumption, overall economic output and, eventually, on the financial markets. in addition, a pandemic that affected our employees or the employees of our distributors or of other companies with which we do business could disrupt our business operations. the effectiveness of external parties, including governmental and non-governmental organizations, in combating the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have a material impact on the losses experienced by us. in our group insurance operations, a localized event that affects the workplace of one or more of our group insurance customers could cause a significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims. these events could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any period and, depending on their severity, could also materially and adversely affect our financial condition. our auto home business has experienced, and will likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses that may have a material adverse impact on the business, results of operations and financial condition of the auto home segment. although auto home makes every effort to manage our exposure to catastrophic risks through volatility management and reinsurance programs, these efforts do not eliminate all risk. catastrophes can be caused by various events, including pandemics, hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards), fires and man-made events such as terrorist attacks. historically, substantially all of our catastrophe-related claims have related to homeowners coverages. however, catastrophes may also affect other auto home coverages. due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence, timing and severity of catastrophes. in addition, changing climate conditions, primarily rising global temperatures, may be increasing, or may in the future increase, the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes such as hurricanes. hurricanes and earthquakes are of particular note for our homeowners coverages. areas of major hurricane exposure include coastal sections of the northeastern united states (including lower new york, connecticut, rhode island and massachusetts), the gulf coast (including alabama, mississippi, louisiana and texas) and florida. we also have some earthquake exposure, primarily along the new madrid fault line in the central united states and in the pacific northwest. the extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however, pandemics, hurricanes, earthquakes and man-made catastrophes may produce significant damage in larger areas, especially those that are heavily populated. claims resulting from natural or man-made catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition. also, catastrophic events could harm the financial 44 table of contents condition of our reinsurers and thereby increase the probability of default on reinsurance recoveries. our ability to write new business could also be affected. it is possible that increases in the value, caused by the effects of inflation or other factors, and geographic concentration of insured property, could increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. most of the jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business require life and property and casualty insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. these associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is engaged. in addition, certain states have government owned or controlled organizations providing life and property and casualty insurance to their citizens. the activities of such organizations could also place additional stress on the adequacy of guaranty fund assessments. many of these organizations also have the power to levy assessments similar to those of the guaranty associations described above. some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. see business regulation insurance regulation guaranty associations and similar arrangements. while in the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied against metlife have not been material, it is possible that a large catastrophic event could render such guaranty funds inadequate and we may be called upon to contribute additional amounts, which may have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations in a particular period. we have established liabilities for guaranty fund assessments that we consider adequate for assessments with respect to insurers that are currently subject to insolvency proceedings, but additional liabilities may be necessary. see note 16 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we establish liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. we cannot be certain that the liabilities we have established will be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities. from time to time, states have passed legislation that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage risk, such as legislation restricting an insurer ability to withdraw from catastrophe-prone areas. while we attempt to limit our exposure to acceptable levels, subject to restrictions imposed by insurance regulatory authorities, a catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our ability to manage this risk and the profitability of our property and casualty and life insurance businesses depends in part on our ability to obtain catastrophe reinsurance, which may not be available at commercially acceptable rates in the future. see reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses. our statutory reserve financings may be subject to cost increases and new financings may be subject to limited market capacity to support statutory reserves for several products including, but not limited to, our level premium term life and universal life with secondary guarantees and mlic closed block, we currently utilize capital markets solutions for financing a portion of our statutory reserve requirements. while we have financing facilities in place for our previously written business and have remaining capacity in existing facilities to support writings through the end of 2010 or later, certain of these facilities are subject to cost increases upon the occurrence of specified ratings downgrades of metlife or are subject to periodic repricing. any resulting cost increases could negatively impact our financial results. future capacity for these statutory reserve funding structures in the marketplace is not guaranteed. if capacity becomes unavailable for a prolonged period of time, hindering our ability to obtain funding for these new structures, our ability to write additional business in a cost effective manner may be impacted. 45 table of contents competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability our business segments are subject to intense competition. we believe that this competition is based on a number of factors, including service, product features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, e-business capabilities and name recognition. we compete with a large number of other insurers, as well as non-insurance financial services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset managers, for individual consumers, employers and other group customers and agents and other distributors of insurance and investment products. some of these companies offer a broader array of products, have more competitive pricing or more attractive features in their products or, with respect to other insurers, have higher claims paying ability ratings. some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete. national banks, which may sell annuity products of life insurers in some circumstances, also have pre-existing customer bases for financial services products. many of our group insurance products are underwritten annually, and, accordingly, there is a risk that group purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors rather than renewing coverage with us. the effect of competition may, as a result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell products in the future. in addition, the investment management and securities brokerage businesses have relatively few barriers to entry and continually attract new entrants. see business competition. finally, the choices made by the u.s. treasury in the administration of eesa and in its distribution of amounts available thereunder could have the effect of supporting some parts of the financial system more than others. see actions of the u.s. government, federal reserve bank of new york and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing and revitalizing the financial markets and protecting investors and consumers may not achieve the intended effect or could adversely affect metlife competitive position. industry trends could adversely affect the profitability of our businesses our business segments continue to be influenced by a variety of trends that affect the insurance industry, including competition with respect to product features, price, distribution capability, customer service and information technology. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends. the impact on our business and on the life insurance industry generally of the volatility and instability of the financial markets is difficult to predict, and our business plans, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted or affected in other unexpected ways. in addition, the life insurance industry is subject to state regulation, and, as complex products are introduced, regulators may refine capital requirements and introduce new reserving standards. furthermore, regulators have undertaken market and sales practices reviews of several markets or products, including variable annuities and group products. the market environment may also lead to changes in regulation that may benefit or disadvantage us relative to some of our competitors. see competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability and business competition. consolidation of distributors of insurance products may adversely affect the insurance industry and the profitability of our business the insurance industry distributes many of its individual products through other financial institutions such as banks and broker-dealers. an increase in bank and broker-dealer consolidation activity may negatively impact the industry sales, and such consolidation could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market insurance products to our current customer base or to expand our customer base. consolidation of distributors and/or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us. 46 table of contents our investments are reflected within the consolidated financial statements utilizing different accounting bases and accordingly we may have recognized differences, which may be significant, between cost and estimated fair value in our consolidated financial statements our principal investments are in fixed maturity and equity securities, trading securities, short-term investments, mortgage loans, policy loans, real estate, real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests and other invested assets. the carrying value of such investments is as follows: fixed maturity and equity securities are classified as available-for-sale, except for trading securities, and are reported at their estimated fair value. unrealized investment gains and losses on these securities are recorded as a separate component of other comprehensive income (loss), net of policyholder related amounts and deferred income taxes. trading securities are recorded at estimated fair value with subsequent changes in estimated fair value recognized in net investment income. short-term investments include investments with remaining maturities of one year or less, but greater than three months, at the time of acquisition. short-term investments that meet the definition of a security are stated at estimated fair value, and short-term investments that do not meet the definition of a security are stated at amortized cost, which approximates estimated fair value. the carrying value of mortgage loans is stated at original cost net of repayments, amortization of premiums, accretion of discounts and valuation allowances, except for residential mortgage loans held-for-sale accounted for under the fair value option which are carried at estimated fair value, as determined on a recurring basis, and certain commercial and residential mortgage loans carried at the lower of cost or estimated fair value, as determined on a nonrecurring basis. policy loans are stated at unpaid principal balances. real estate held-for-investment, including related improvements, is stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation. real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests in which we have more than a minor equity interest or more than a minor influence over the joint ventures or partnership operations, but where we do not have a controlling interest and are not the primary beneficiary, are carried using the equity method of accounting. we use the cost method of accounting for investments in real estate joint ventures and other limited partnership interests in which we have a minor equity investment and virtually no influence over the joint ventures or the partnership operations. other invested assets consist principally of freestanding derivatives with positive estimated fair values and leveraged leases. freestanding derivatives are carried at estimated fair value with changes in estimated fair value reflected in income for both non-qualifying derivatives and derivatives in fair value hedging relationships. changes in estimated fair value of derivatives in cash flow or in net investments in foreign operations hedging relationships are reflected as a separate component of other comprehensive income (loss). leveraged leases are recorded net of non-recourse debt. investments not carried at estimated fair value in our consolidated financial statements principally, mortgage loans held-for-investment, policy loans, real estate, real estate joint ventures, other limited partnerships and leveraged leases may have estimated fair values which are substantially higher or lower than the carrying value reflected in our consolidated financial statements. each of these asset classes is regularly evaluated for impairment under the accounting guidance appropriate to the respective asset class. 47 table of contents our valuation of fixed maturity, equity and trading securities and short-term investments may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition fixed maturity, equity, and trading securities and short-term investments which are reported at estimated fair value on the consolidated balance sheets represent the majority of our total cash and investments. we have categorized these securities into a three-level hierarchy, based on the priority of the inputs to the respective valuation technique. the fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (level 3). an asset or liability classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of significant input to its valuation. the input levels are as follows: level 1 unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. we define active markets based on average trading volume for equity securities. the size of the bid/ask spread is used as an indicator of market activity for fixed maturity securities. level 2 quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly. level 2 inputs include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities other than quoted prices in level 1; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. level 3 unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. unobservable inputs reflect the reporting entity own assumptions about the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments whose values are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation. at december 31, 2009, 8.0%, 84.3% and 7.7% of these securities represented level 1, level 2 and level 3, respectively. the level 1 securities primarily consist of certain u.s. treasury, agency and government guaranteed fixed maturity securities; certain foreign government fixed maturity securities; exchange-traded common stock; certain trading securities; and certain short-term investments. the level 2 assets include fixed maturity and equity securities priced principally through independent pricing services using observable inputs. these fixed maturity securities include most u.s. treasury, agency and government guaranteed securities, as well as the majority of u.s. and foreign corporate securities, rmbs, commercial mortgage-backed securities ( cmbs ), state and political subdivision securities, foreign government securities, and abs. equity securities classified as level 2 primarily consist of non-redeemable preferred securities and certain equity securities where market quotes are available but are not considered actively traded and are priced by independent pricing services. we review the valuation methodologies used by the independent pricing services on an ongoing basis and ensure that any changes to valuation methodologies are justified. level 3 assets include fixed maturity securities priced principally through independent non-binding broker quotations or market standard valuation methodologies using inputs that are not market observable or cannot be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. level 3 consists of less liquid fixed maturity securities with very limited trading activity or where less price transparency exists around the inputs to the valuation methodologies including: u.s. and foreign corporate securities including below investment grade private placements; rmbs; cmbs; and abs including all of those supported by sub-prime mortgage loans. equity securities classified as level 3 securities consist principally of non-redeemable preferred stock and common stock of companies that are privately held or companies for which there has been very limited trading activity or where less price transparency exists around the inputs to the valuation. see note 5 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for the estimated fair values of these assets by hierarchy level. prices provided by independent pricing services and independent non-binding broker quotations can vary widely even for the same security. 48 table of contents the determination of estimated fair values by management in the absence of quoted market prices is based on: (i) valuation methodologies; (ii) securities we deem to be comparable; and (iii) assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances. the fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on available market information and judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. factors considered in estimating fair value include: coupon rate, maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer, and quoted market prices of comparable securities. the use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. during periods of market disruption including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities, for example sub-prime mortgage-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities where the underlying loans are alt-a and cmbs, if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. in times of financial market disruption, certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data may become illiquid. in such cases, more securities may fall to level 3 and thus require more subjectivity and management judgment. as such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation, as well as valuation methods which are more sophisticated or require greater estimation thereby resulting in estimated fair values which may be greater or less than the amount at which the investments may be ultimately sold. further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in estimated fair value could vary significantly. decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if our business does not perform well, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our goodwill or other long-lived assets or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the estimated fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. we test goodwill at least annually for impairment. impairment testing is performed based upon estimates of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to which the goodwill relates. the reporting unit is the operating segment or a business one level below that operating segment if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at that level. the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the business. the performance of our businesses may be adversely impacted by prolonged market declines. if it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, we must write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. such writedowns could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates goodwill. long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate, also require impairment testing to determine whether changes in circumstances indicate that metlife will be unable to recover the carrying amount of the asset group through future operations of that asset group or market conditions that will impact the estimated fair value of those assets. such writedowns could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. factors in management determination include the performance of the business including the ability to generate future taxable income. if based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. further or continued deterioration of financial market conditions could result in a decrease in the expected future earnings of our reporting units, which could lead to an impairment of some or all of the goodwill associated with them in future periods. such deterioration could also result in the impairment of long-lived assets and the establishment of a valuation allowance on our deferred income tax assets. 49 table of contents if our business does not perform well or if actual experience versus estimates used in valuing and amortizing dac and voba vary significantly, we may be required to accelerate the amortization and/or impair the dac and voba which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition we incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal business. those costs that vary with and are primarily related to the production of new and renewal business are deferred and referred to as dac. the recovery of dac is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. the amount of future profit or margin is dependent principally on investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest crediting rates, dividends paid to policyholders, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties and certain economic variables, such as inflation. of these factors, we anticipate that investment returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of such costs. the aforementioned factors enter into management estimates of gross profits or margins, which generally are used to amortize such costs. if the estimates of gross profits or margins were overstated, then the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to income. significant or sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of the dac related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. voba reflects the estimated fair value of in-force contracts in a life insurance company acquisition and represents the portion of the purchase price that is allocated to the value of the right to receive future cash flows from the insurance and annuity contracts in-force at the acquisition date. voba is based on actuarially determined projections. actual experience may vary from the projections. revisions to estimates result in changes to the amounts expensed in the reporting period in which the revisions are made and could result in an impairment and a charge to income. also, as voba is amortized similarly to dac, an acceleration of the amortization of voba would occur if the estimates of gross profits or margins were overstated. accordingly, the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period in which the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to net income. significant or sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of the voba related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates deferred policy acquisition costs and value of business acquired for further consideration of dac and voba . changes in accounting standards issued by the financial accounting standards board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements our financial statements are subject to the application of gaap, which is periodically revised and/or expanded. accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the financial accounting standards board. market conditions have prompted accounting standard setters to expose new guidance which further interprets or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements related to financial instruments, structures or transactions, as well as to issue new standards expanding disclosures. the impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in our annual and quarterly reports on form 10-k and form 10-q. an assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and, therefore, the effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. it is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 50 table of contents changes in our discount rate, expected rate of return and expected compensation increase assumptions for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability we determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on our best estimates of future plan experience. these assumptions are reviewed regularly and include discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets and expected increases in compensation levels and expected medical inflation. changes in these assumptions may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. see note 17 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for details on how changes in these assumptions would affect plan costs. guarantees within certain of our variable annuity guarantee benefits that protect policyholders against significant downturns in equity markets may increase the volatility of our results related to the inclusion of an own credit adjustment in the estimated fair value of the liability for these guaranteed benefits in determining the valuation of certain variable annuity guarantee benefit liabilities that are carried at estimated fair value, we must consider our own credit standing, which is not hedged. a decrease in our own credit spread could cause the value of these liabilities to increase, resulting in a reduction to net income. an increase in our own credit spread could cause the value of these liabilities to decrease, resulting in an increase to net income. because this credit adjustment is determined, at least in part, by taking into consideration publicly available information relating to our publicly-traded debt, the overall condition of fixed income markets may impact this adjustment. the credit premium implied in our publicly-traded debt, instruments may not always necessarily reflect our actual credit rating or our claims paying ability. recently, the fixed income markets have experienced a period of extreme volatility which has impacted market liquidity and credit spreads. an increase in credit default swap spreads has at times been even more pronounced than in the fixed income cash markets. in a broad based market downturn, an increase in our own credit spread could result in net income being relatively flat when a deterioration in other market inputs required for the estimate of fair value would otherwise result in a significant reduction in net income. the inclusion of our own credit standing in this case has the effect of muting the actual net income losses recognized. in subsequent periods, if our credit spreads improve relative to the overall market, we could have a reduction of net income in an overall improving market. guarantees within certain of our products that protect policyholders against significant downturns in equity markets may decrease our earnings, increase the volatility of our results if hedging or risk management strategies prove ineffective, result in higher hedging costs and expose us to increased counterparty risk certain of our variable annuity products include guaranteed benefits. these include guaranteed death benefits, guaranteed withdrawal benefits, lifetime withdrawal guarantees, guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits, and guaranteed minimum income benefits. periods of significant and sustained downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, or reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of the future policy benefit or policyholder account balance liabilities associated with such products, resulting in a reduction to net income. we use reinsurance in combination with derivative instruments to mitigate the liability exposure and the volatility of net income associated with these liabilities, and while we believe that these and other actions have mitigated the risks related to these benefits, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay. in addition, we are subject to the risk that hedging and other management procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed. these, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on net income, financial condition or liquidity. we are also subject to the risk that the cost of hedging these guaranteed minimum benefits increases, resulting in a reduction to net income. 51 table of contents we may need to fund deficiencies in our closed block; assets allocated to the closed block benefit only the holders of closed block policies mlic plan of reorganization, as amended (the plan ), required that we establish and operate an accounting mechanism, known as a closed block, to ensure that the reasonable dividend expectations of policyholders who own certain individual insurance policies of mlic are met. see note 10 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. we allocated assets to the closed block in an amount that will produce cash flows which, together with anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block, are reasonably expected to be sufficient to support obligations and liabilities relating to these policies, including, but not limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain expenses and tax, and to provide for the continuation of the policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999, if the experience underlying such scales continues, and for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience changes. we cannot provide assurance that the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block will be sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies. if they are not sufficient, we must fund the shortfall. even if they are sufficient, we may choose, for competitive reasons, to support policyholder dividend payments with our general account funds. the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies in the closed block will benefit only the holders of those policies. in addition, to the extent that these amounts are greater than the amounts estimated at the time the closed block was funded, dividends payable in respect of the policies included in the closed block may be greater than they would be in the absence of a closed block. any excess earnings will be available for distribution over time only to closed block policyholders. litigation and regulatory investigations are increasingly common in our businesses and may result in significant financial losses and harm to our reputation we face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. our pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings specific to us and others generally applicable to business practices in the industries in which we operate. in connection with our insurance operations, plaintiffs lawyers may bring or are bringing class actions and individual suits alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product design, disclosure, administration, denial or delay of benefits and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers. plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, and the damages claimed and the amount of any probable and estimable liability, if any, may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. see note 16 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular points in time may be inherently impossible to ascertain with any degree of certainty. inherent uncertainties can include how fact finders will view individually and in their totality documentary evidence, the credibility and effectiveness of witnesses testimony, and how trial and appellate courts will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal. disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the relevant evidence and applicable law. on a quarterly and annual basis, we review relevant information with respect to litigation and contingencies to be reflected in our consolidated financial statements. the review includes senior legal and financial personnel. unless stated elsewhere herein, estimates of possible losses or ranges of loss for particular matters cannot in the ordinary course be made with a reasonable degree of certainty. liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. liabilities have been established for a number of matters noted in note 16 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. it is possible that some of the matters could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures or establish accruals in amounts that could not be estimated at december 31, 2009. 52 table of contents mlic and its affiliates are currently defendants in numerous lawsuits including class actions and individual suits, alleging improper marketing or sales of individual life insurance policies, annuities, mutual funds or other products. in addition, mlic is a defendant in a large number of lawsuits seeking compensatory and punitive damages for personal injuries allegedly caused by exposure to asbestos or asbestos-containing products. these lawsuits principally have focused on allegations with respect to certain research, publication and other activities of one or more of mlic employees during the period from the 1920 through approximately the 1950 and have alleged that mlic learned or should have learned of certain health risks posed by asbestos and, among other things, improperly publicized or failed to disclose those health risks. additional litigation relating to these matters may be commenced in the future. the ability of mlic to estimate its ultimate asbestos exposure is subject to considerable uncertainty, and the conditions impacting its liability can be dynamic and subject to change. the availability of reliable data is limited and it is difficult to predict with any certainty the numerous variables that can affect liability estimates, including the number of future claims, the cost to resolve claims, the disease mix and severity of disease in pending and future claims, the impact of the number of new claims filed in a particular jurisdiction and variations in the law in the jurisdictions in which claims are filed, the possible impact of tort reform efforts, the willingness of courts to allow plaintiffs to pursue claims against mlic when exposure took place after the dangers of asbestos exposure were well known, and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts. the number of asbestos cases that may be brought or the aggregate amount of any liability that mlic may incur, and the total amount paid in settlements in any given year are uncertain and may vary significantly from year to year. accordingly, it is reasonably possible that our total exposure to asbestos claims may be materially greater than the liability recorded by us in our consolidated financial statements and that future charges to income may be necessary. the potential future charges could be material in the particular quarterly or annual periods in which they are recorded. we are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as information requests, subpoenas and books and record examinations, from state and federal regulators and other authorities. a substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. moreover, even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation, regulatory action or investigation, we could suffer significant reputational harm, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our ability to attract new customers, retain our current customers and recruit and retain employees. regulatory inquiries and litigation may cause volatility in the price of stocks of companies in our industry. we cannot give assurance that current claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and other proceedings against us will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. it is also possible that related or unrelated claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and proceedings may be commenced in the future, and we could become subject to further investigations and have lawsuits filed or enforcement actions initiated against us. in addition, increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings could result in new legal actions and precedents and industry-wide regulations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. proposals to regulate compensation, if implemented, could hinder or prevent us from attracting and retaining management and other employees with the talent and experience to manage and conduct our business effectively congress is considering the possibility of regulating the compensation that financial institutions may provide to their executive officers and other employees. in addition, the federal reserve board and the fdic have proposed guidelines on incentive compensation that, if adopted, may apply to or impact metlife as a bank holding company. these restrictions could hinder or prevent us from attracting and retaining management and other employees with the talent and experience to manage and conduct our business effectively. they could also limit our tax deductions for certain compensation paid to executive employees in excess of specified amounts. we may also be subject to requirements and restrictions on our business if we participate in some of the programs established in whole or in part under eesa. 53 table of contents changes in u.s. federal and state securities laws and regulations may affect our operations and our profitability federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to insurance products that are also securities, including variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies. as a result, some of metlife, inc. subsidiaries and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance contracts and policies are subject to extensive regulation under these securities laws. these subsidiaries issue variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies through separate accounts that are registered with the sec as investment companies under the investment company act. each registered separate account is generally divided into sub-accounts, each of which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is itself a registered investment company under the investment company act. in addition, the variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies issued by the separate accounts are registered with the sec under the securities act. other subsidiaries are registered with the sec as broker-dealers under the exchange act, and are members of, and subject to, regulation by finra. further, some of our subsidiaries are registered as investment advisers with the sec under the investment advisers act of 1940, and are also registered as investment advisers in various states, as applicable. federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily intended to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect investors in the securities markets, as well as protect investment advisory or brokerage clients. these laws and regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with the securities laws and regulations. changes to these laws or regulations that restrict the conduct of our business could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in particular, changes in the regulations governing the registration and distribution of variable insurance products, such as changes in the regulatory standards for suitability of variable annuity contracts or variable life insurance policies, or changes in the standard of care which sales representatives owe to their customers with respect to the sale of variable insurance products, could have such a material adverse effect. changes in tax laws, tax regulations, or interpretations of such laws or regulations could increase our corporate taxes; changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to consumers changes in tax laws, treasury and other regulations promulgated thereunder, or interpretations of such laws or regulations could increase our corporate taxes. the obama administration has proposed corporate tax changes. changes in corporate tax rates could affect the value of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. furthermore, the value of deferred tax assets could be impacted by future earnings levels. changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to consumers. a shift away from life insurance and annuity contracts and other tax-deferred products would reduce our income from sales of these products, as well as the assets upon which we earn investment income. the obama administration has proposed certain changes to individual income tax rates and rules applicable to certain policies. we cannot predict whether any tax legislation impacting corporate taxes or insurance products will be enacted, what the specific terms of any such legislation will be or whether, if at all, any legislation would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may be unable to attract and retain sales representatives for our products we must attract and retain productive sales representatives to sell our insurance, annuities and investment products. strong competition exists among insurers for sales representatives with demonstrated ability. in addition, there is competition for representatives with other types of financial services firms, such as independent broker-dealers. we compete with other insurers for sales representatives primarily on the basis of our financial position, support services and compensation and product features. we continue to undertake several initiatives to grow our career agency force while continuing to enhance the efficiency and production of our existing sales force. we cannot provide assurance that these initiatives will succeed in attracting and retaining new agents. sales of individual insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of operations and financial condition could be 54 table of contents materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents. see business competition. metlife, inc. board of directors may control the outcome of stockholder votes on many matters due to the voting provisions of the metlife policyholder trust under the plan, we established the metlife policyholder trust (the trust ) to hold the shares of metlife, inc. common stock allocated to eligible policyholders not receiving cash or policy credits under the plan. at february 22, 2010, 231,759,896 shares, or 28.3%, of the outstanding shares of metlife, inc. common stock, are held in the trust. because of the number of shares held in the trust and the voting provisions of the trust, the trust may affect the outcome of matters brought to a stockholder vote. except on votes regarding certain fundamental corporate actions described below, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held in the trust in accordance with the recommendations given by metlife, inc. board of directors to its stockholders or, if the board gives no such recommendations, as directed by the board. as a result of the voting provisions of the trust, the board of directors may be able to control votes on matters submitted to a vote of stockholders, excluding those fundamental corporate actions, so long as the trust holds a substantial number of shares of common stock. if the vote relates to fundamental corporate actions specified in the trust, the trustee will solicit instructions from the trust beneficiaries and vote all shares held in the trust in proportion to the instructions it receives. these actions include: an election or removal of directors in which a stockholder has properly nominated one or more candidates in opposition to a nominee or nominees of metlife, inc. board of directors or a vote on a stockholder proposal to oppose a board nominee for director, remove a director for cause or fill a vacancy caused by the removal of a director by stockholders, subject to certain conditions; a merger or consolidation, a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the assets, or a recapitalization or dissolution, of metlife, inc., in each case requiring a vote of stockholders under applicable delaware law; any transaction that would result in an exchange or conversion of shares of common stock held by the trust for cash, securities or other property; and any proposal requiring metlife, inc. board of directors to amend or redeem the rights under the stockholder rights plan, other than a proposal with respect to which we have received advice of nationally-recognized legal counsel to the effect that the proposal is not a proper subject for stockholder action under delaware law. if a vote concerns any of these fundamental corporate actions, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held by the trust in proportion to the instructions it received, which will give disproportionate weight to the instructions actually given by trust beneficiaries. state laws, federal laws, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and our stockholder rights plan may delay, deter or prevent takeovers and business combinations that stockholders might consider in their best interests state laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. for instance, they may prevent stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of metlife, inc. common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of metlife, inc. common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. any person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would face various regulatory obstacles which may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders of metlife, inc. might consider in their best interests. first, the insurance laws and regulations of the various states in which metlife, inc. insurance subsidiaries are 55 table of contents organized may delay or impede a business combination involving us. state insurance laws prohibit an entity from acquiring control of an insurance company without the prior approval of the domestic insurance regulator. under most states statutes, an entity is presumed to have control of an insurance company if it owns, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of that insurance company or its parent company. we are also subject to banking regulations, and may in the future become subject to additional regulations. the obama administration and congress have made various proposals that could restrict or impede consolidation, mergers and acquisitions by systemically significant firms and/or bank holding companies. in addition, the investment company act would require approval by the contract owners of our variable contracts in order to effectuate a change of control of any affiliated investment adviser to a mutual fund underlying our variable contracts. finally, finra approval would be necessary for a change of control of any finra registered broker-dealer that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of metlife, inc. in addition, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law may affect the ability of an interested stockholder to engage in certain business combinations, including mergers, consolidations or acquisitions of additional shares, for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. an interested stockholder is defined to include persons owning, directly or indirectly, 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation. metlife, inc. certificate of incorporation and by-laws also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. these provisions may adversely affect prevailing market prices for metlife, inc. common stock and include: classification of metlife, inc. board of directors into three classes; a prohibition on the calling of special meetings by stockholders; advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates to the board of directors and stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; and supermajority voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation and by-laws. the stockholder rights plan, which was adopted by metlife, inc. board of directors in september 1999, might also have anti-takeover effects. the provisions of the rights plan might render an unsolicited takeover more difficult or less likely to occur or might prevent such a takeover, even though such takeover may offer metlife, inc. stockholders the opportunity to sell their stock at a price above the prevailing market price and may be favored by a majority of metlife, inc. stockholders. the rights plan is scheduled to expire at the close of business on april 4, 2010, and the board of directors does not currently intend to renew it. the continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may adversely affect the level of claim losses we incur and the value of our investment portfolio the continued threat of terrorism, both within the united states and abroad, ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility in global financial markets and result in loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the credit and equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. we cannot predict whether, and the extent to which, companies in which we maintain investments may suffer losses as a result of financial, commercial or economic disruptions, or how any such disruptions might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or principal on their securities or mortgage loans. the continued threat of terrorism also could result in increased reinsurance prices and reduced insurance coverage and potentially cause us to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. terrorist actions also could disrupt our operations centers in the united states or abroad. in addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions could result in higher claims under our insurance policies than anticipated. see difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations and these conditions may not improve in the near future. 56 table of contents the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning could impair our ability to conduct business effectively in the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an epidemic, an industrial accident, a blackout, a computer virus, a terrorist attack or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial position, particularly if those problems affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data. we depend heavily upon computer systems to provide reliable service. despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our computer systems could be subject to physical and electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. in addition, in the event that a significant number of our managers were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. these interruptions also may interfere with our suppliers ability to provide goods and services and our employees ability to perform their job responsibilities. our associates may take excessive risks which could negatively affect our financial condition and business as an insurance enterprise, we are in the business of being paid to accept certain risks. the associates who conduct our business, including executive officers and other members of management, sales managers, investment professionals, product managers, sales agents, and other associates, do so in part by making decisions and choices that involve exposing us to risk. these include decisions such as setting underwriting guidelines and standards, product design and pricing, determining what assets to purchase for investment and when to sell them, which business opportunities to pursue, and other decisions. although we endeavor, in the design and implementation of our compensation programs and practices, to avoid giving our associates incentives to take excessive risks, associates may take such risks regardless of the structure of our compensation programs and practices. similarly, although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor associates business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks, there can be no assurance that these controls and procedures are or may be effective. if our associates take excessive risks, the impact of those risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or business operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 162 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management the company must effectively manage, measure and monitor the market risk associated with its assets and liabilities. it has developed an integrated process for managing risk, which it conducts through its enterprise risk management department, asset/liability management unit, treasury department and investment department along with the management of the business segments. the company has established and implemented 162 table of contents comprehensive policies and procedures at both the corporate and business segment level to minimize the effects of potential market volatility. the company regularly analyzes its exposure to interest rate, equity market price and foreign currency exchange rate risks. as a result of that analysis, the company has determined that the estimated fair value of certain assets and liabilities are materially exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and changes in the equity markets. enterprise risk management. metlife has established several financial and non-financial senior management committees as part of its risk management process. these committees manage capital and risk positions, approve asset/liability management strategies and establish appropriate corporate business standards. metlife also has a separate enterprise risk management department, which is responsible for risk throughout metlife and reports to metlife chief risk officer. the enterprise risk management department primary responsibilities consist of: implementing a board of directors approved corporate risk framework, which outlines the company approach for managing risk on an enterprise-wide basis; developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring, monitoring and controlling those risks identified in the corporate risk framework; establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels; deploying capital on an economic capital basis; and reporting on a periodic basis to the finance and risk policy committee of the company board of directors, and with respect to credit risk to the investment committee of the company board of directors and various financial and non-financial senior management committees. metlife does not expect to make any material changes to its risk management practices in 2010. asset/liability management ( alm ). the company actively manages its assets using an approach that balances quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity, concentration and investment return. the goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income tax, risk-adjusted investment income and risk-adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are reasonably managed on a cash flow and duration basis. the asset/liability management process is the shared responsibility of the financial risk management and asset/liability management unit, enterprise risk management, the portfolio management unit, and the senior members of the operating business segments and is governed by the alm committee. the alm committee duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios, establishing investment guidelines and limits and providing oversight of the asset/liability management process on a periodic basis. the directives of the alm committee are carried out and monitored through alm working groups which are set up to manage by product type. metlife establishes target asset portfolios for each major insurance product, which represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund its liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. these strategies are monitored through regular review of portfolio metrics, such as effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality by the alm working groups. metlife does not expect to make any material changes to its asset/liability management practices in 2010. market risk exposures the company has exposure to market risk through its insurance operations and investment activities. for purposes of this disclosure, market risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rates. the company exposure to interest rate changes results most significantly from its holdings of fixed maturity securities, as well as its interest rate sensitive liabilities. the fixed maturity securities include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds and mortgage-backed securities, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium- and long-term interest rates. the interest 163 table of contents rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include debt, policyholder account balances related to certain investment type contracts, and net embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits which have the same type of interest rate exposure (medium- and long-term interest rates) as fixed maturity securities. the company employs product design, pricing and asset/liability management strategies to reduce the adverse effects of interest rate movements. product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products and the ability to reset credited rates for certain products. asset/liability management strategies include the use of derivatives and duration mismatch limits. see risk factors changes in market interest rates may significantly affect our profitability. foreign currency exchange rates. the company exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar results from its holdings in non-u.s. dollar denominated fixed maturity and equity securities, mortgage and consumer loans, and certain liabilities, as well as through its investments in foreign subsidiaries. the principal currencies that create foreign currency exchange rate risk in the company investment portfolios are the euro, and the canadian dollar. the principal currencies that create foreign currency exchange risk in the company liabilities are the british pound, the euro and the swiss franc. selectively, the company uses u.s. dollar assets to support certain long duration foreign currency liabilities. through its investments in foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures, the company was primarily exposed to the mexican peso, the japanese yen, the south korean won, the canadian dollar, the british pound, the chilean peso, the australian dollar, the argentine peso and the hong kong dollar. in addition to hedging with foreign currency swaps, forwards and options, local surplus in some countries, is held entirely or in part in u.s. dollar assets which further minimizes exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. the company has matched much of its foreign currency liabilities in its foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency assets, thereby reducing its risk to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. equity prices. the company has exposure to equity prices through certain liabilities that involve long-term guarantees on equity performance such as net embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits, certain policyholder account balances along with investments in equity securities. we manage this risk on an integrated basis with other risks through our asset/liability management strategies including the dynamic hedging of certain variable annuity guarantee benefits. the company also manages equity price risk incurred in its investment portfolio through the use of derivatives. equity exposures associated with other limited partnership interests are excluded from this section as they are not considered financial instruments under generally accepted accounting principles. management of market risk exposures the company uses a variety of strategies to manage interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity price risk, including the use of derivative instruments. interest rate risk management. to manage interest rate risk, the company analyzes interest rate risk using various models, including multi-scenario cash flow projection models that forecast cash flows of the liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivative instruments. these projections involve evaluating the potential gain or loss on most of the company in-force business under various increasing and decreasing interest rate environments. the new york state insurance department regulations require that metlife perform some of these analyses annually as part of metlife review of the sufficiency of its regulatory reserves. for several of its legal entities, the company maintains segmented operating and surplus asset portfolios for the purpose of asset/liability management and the allocation of investment income to product lines. for each segment, invested assets greater than or equal to the gaap liabilities less the dac asset and any non-invested assets allocated to the segment are maintained, with any excess swept to the surplus segment. the operating segments may reflect differences in legal entity, statutory line of business and any product market characteristic which may drive a distinct investment strategy with respect to duration, liquidity or credit quality of the invested assets. certain smaller entities make use of unsegmented general accounts for which the investment strategy reflects the aggregate characteristics of liabilities in those entities. the company measures relative sensitivities of the value of its assets and liabilities to changes in key assumptions utilizing company models. these models reflect specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting 164 table of contents rates. in addition, these models include asset cash flow projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage prepayments and defaults. common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, are also used to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and liability values to changes in interest rates. in computing the duration of liabilities, consideration is given to all policyholder guarantees and to how the company intends to set indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or dividends. each asset portfolio has a duration target based on the liability duration and the investment objectives of that portfolio. where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity of available assets, as is the case with certain retirement and non-medical health products, the company may support such liabilities with equity investments, derivatives or curve mismatch strategies. foreign currency exchange rate risk management. foreign currency exchange rate risk is assumed primarily in three ways: investments in foreign subsidiaries, purchases of foreign currency denominated investments in the investment portfolio and the sale of certain insurance products. the company treasury department is responsible for managing the exposure to investments in foreign subsidiaries. limits to exposures are established and monitored by the treasury department and managed by the investment department. the investment department is responsible for managing the exposure to foreign currency investments. exposure limits to unhedged foreign currency investments are incorporated into the standing authorizations granted to management by the board of directors and are reported to the board of directors on a periodic basis. the lines of business are responsible for establishing limits and managing any foreign exchange rate exposure caused by the sale or issuance of insurance products. metlife uses foreign currency swaps and forwards to hedge its foreign currency denominated fixed income investments, its equity exposure in subsidiaries and its foreign currency exposures caused by the sale of insurance products. equity price risk management. equity price risk incurred through the issuance of variable annuities is managed by the company asset/liability management unit in partnership with the investment department. equity price risk is also incurred through its investment in equity securities and is managed by its investment department. metlife uses derivatives to hedge its equity exposure both in certain liability guarantees such as variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefit and equity securities. these derivatives include exchange-traded equity futures, equity index options contracts and equity variance swaps. the company derivative hedges performed effectively through the extreme movements in the equity markets during the latter part of 2008. the company also employs reinsurance to manage these exposures. hedging activities. metlife uses derivative contracts primarily to hedge a wide range of risks including interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, and equity risk. derivative hedges are designed to reduce risk on an economic basis while considering their impact on accounting results and gaap and statutory capital. the construction of the company derivative hedge programs vary depending on the type of risk being hedged. some hedge programs are asset or liability specific while others are portfolio hedges that reduce risk related to a group of liabilities or assets. the company use of derivatives by major hedge programs is as follows: risks related to living guarantee benefits the company uses a wide range of derivative contracts to hedge the risk associated with variable annuity living guarantee benefits. these hedges include equity and interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, currency futures/forwards, equity indexed options and interest rate option contracts and equity variance swaps. minimum interest rate guarantees for certain company liability contracts, the company provides the contractholder a guaranteed minimum interest rate. these contracts include certain fixed annuities and other insurance liabilities. the company purchases interest rate floors to reduce risk associated with these liability guarantees. 165 table of contents reinvestment risk in long duration liability contracts derivatives are used to hedge interest rate risk related to certain long duration liability contracts, such as long-term care. hedges include zero coupon interest rate swaps and swaptions. foreign currency risk the company uses currency swaps and forwards to hedge foreign currency risk. these hedges primarily swap foreign currency denominated bonds, investments in foreign subsidiaries or equity exposures to us dollars. general alm hedging strategies in the ordinary course of managing the company asset/liability risks, the company uses interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, interest rate floors and inflation swaps. these hedges are designed to reduce interest rate risk or inflation risk related to the existing assets or liabilities or related to expected future cash flows. risk measurement: sensitivity analysis the company measures market risk related to its market sensitive assets and liabilities based on changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates utilizing a sensitivity analysis. this analysis estimates the potential changes in estimated fair value based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, equity market prices and foreign currency exchange rates. the company believes that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the near-term. in performing the analysis summarized below, the company used market rates at december 31, 2009. the sensitivity analysis separately calculates each of the company market risk exposures (interest rate, equity price and foreign currency exchange rate) relating to its trading and non trading assets and liabilities. the company modeled the impact of changes in market rates and prices on the estimated fair values of its market sensitive assets and liabilities as follows: the net present values of its interest rate sensitive exposures resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates; the u.s. dollar equivalent estimated fair values of the company foreign currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in foreign currency exchange rates; and the estimated fair value of its equity positions due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity market prices. the sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as predictive of the company future financial performance. the company cannot ensure that its actual losses in any particular period will not exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. limitations related to this sensitivity analysis include: the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgages; the derivatives that qualify as hedges, the impact on reported earnings may be materially different from the change in market values; the analysis excludes other significant real estate holdings and liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts; and the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains unchanged throughout the period. accordingly, the company uses such models as tools and not as substitutes for the experience and judgment of its management. based on its analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and prices, metlife has determined that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the estimated fair value of certain assets and liabilities from interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity exposures. 166 table of contents the table below illustrates the potential loss in estimated fair value for each market risk exposure of the company market sensitive assets and liabilities at december 31, 2009: december 31, 2009 (in millions) non-trading: interest rate risk $ 4,050 foreign currency exchange rate risk $ 798 equity price risk $ 218 trading: interest rate risk $ 7 foreign currency exchange rate risk $ 93 167 table of contents sensitivity analysis: interest rates. the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in fair value of the company trading and non-trading interest sensitive financial instruments at december 31, 2009 by type of asset or liability: december 31, 2009 assuming a estimated 10% increase notional fair in the yield amount value (3) curve (in millions) assets: fixed maturity securities $ 227,642 $ (4,761 ) equity securities 3,084 trading securities 2,384 (10 ) mortgage loans: held-for-investment 46,315 (201 ) held-for-sale 2,728 (32 ) mortgage loans, net 49,043 (233 ) policy loans 11,294 (201 ) real estate joint ventures (1) 127 other limited partnership interests (1) 1,581 short-term investments 8,374 (1 ) other invested assets: mortgage servicing rights 878 85 other 1,284 (7 ) cash and cash equivalents 10,112 accrued investment income 3,173 premiums and other receivables 3,532 (211 ) other assets 440 (6 ) net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) 76 (17 ) mortgage loan commitments $ 2,220 (48 ) 1 commitments to fund bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments $ 1,263 (52 ) total assets $ (5,361 ) liabilities: policyholder account balances $ 96,735 $ 786 payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions 24,196 short-term debt 912 long-term debt 13,831 339 collateral financing arrangements 2,877 (8 ) junior subordinated debt securities 3,167 152 other liabilities: trading liabilities 106 3 other 1,788 net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) 1,505 994 total liabilities $ 2,266 derivative instruments: interest rate swaps $ 38,152 $ 315 $ (866 ) interest rate floors $ 23,691 424 (48 ) interest rate caps $ 28,409 283 86 interest rate futures $ 7,563 (2 ) (29 ) interest rate options $ 4,050 60 (33 ) interest rate forwards $ 9,921 39 65 synthetic gics $ 4,352 foreign currency swaps $ 16,879 122 (36 ) foreign currency forwards $ 6,485 26 currency options $ 822 18 credit default swaps $ 6,723 (56 ) credit forwards $ 220 (4 ) equity futures $ 7,405 23 equity options $ 27,175 694 (64 ) variance swaps $ 13,654 123 (11 ) total rate of return swaps $ 376 (47 ) (26 ) total derivative instruments $ (962 ) net change $ (4,057 ) 168 table of contents (1) represents only those investments accounted for using the cost method. (2) embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. (3) separate account assets and liabilities which are interest rate sensitive are not included herein as any interest rate risk is borne by the holder of the separate account. this quantitative measure of risk has decreased by $642 million, or 14%, to $4,057 million at december 31, 2009 from $4,699 million at december 31, 2008. the decrease in interest rate risk associated with the use of derivatives decreased by $1,571 million. also, a decrease in the net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts primarily due to first time inclusion of international net embedded derivatives of $626 million decreased risk by $778 million. additionally, a change in long-term and junior subordinated debt due to an improvement in credit spreads and new issuance of debt, and an increase in the duration of the investment portfolio, decreased risk by $318 million and $193 million, respectively. this was partially offset by an increase in interest rates across the long end of the swaps and u.s. treasury curves resulting in an increase in the interest rate risk of $1,668 million. the increase in the net base of liabilities and assets of $522 million also increased interest rate risk which contributed to the offset. the remainder of the fluctuation is attributable to numerous immaterial items. 169 table of contents sensitivity analysis: foreign currency exchange rates. the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of the company portfolio due to a 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates at december 31, 2009 by type of asset or liability: december 31, 2009 assuming a estimated 10% increase notional fair in the foreign amount value (1) exchange rate (in millions) assets: fixed maturity securities $ 227,642 $ (2,060 ) equity securities 3,084 (5 ) trading securities 2,384 (93 ) mortgage loans: held-for-investment 46,315 (338 ) held-for-sale 2,728 mortgage loans, net 49,043 (338 ) policy loans 11,294 (45 ) short-term investments 8,374 (65 ) other invested assets: mortgage servicing rights 878 other 1,284 (49 ) cash and cash equivalents 10,112 (100 ) accrued investment income 3,173 (10 ) total assets $ (2,765 ) liabilities: policyholder account balances $ 96,735 $ 1,275 long-term debt 13,831 103 net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) 1,505 122 total liabilities $ 1,500 derivative instruments: interest rate swaps $ 38,152 $ 315 $ 5 interest rate floors $ 23,691 424 interest rate caps $ 28,409 283 interest rate futures $ 7,563 (2 ) (2 ) interest rate options $ 4,050 60 interest rate forwards $ 9,921 39 synthetic gics $ 4,352 foreign currency swaps $ 16,879 122 215 foreign currency forwards $ 6,485 26 220 currency options $ 822 18 credit default swaps $ 6,723 (56 ) credit forwards $ 220 (4 ) equity futures $ 7,405 23 (1 ) equity options $ 27,175 694 (61 ) variance swaps $ 13,654 123 (2 ) total rate of return swaps $ 376 (47 ) total derivative instruments $ 374 net change $ (891 ) 170 table of contents (1) estimated fair value presented in the table above represents the estimated fair value of all financial instruments within this financial statement caption not necessarily those solely subject to foreign exchange risk. (2) embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. foreign currency exchange rate risk increased by $365 million, or 69%, to $891 million at december 31, 2009 from $526 million at december 31, 2008. this increase was due to an increase in fixed maturities of $567 million due to higher net exposures primarily to the canadian dollar, the british pound and the euro. partially offsetting this change was a decrease in the foreign exposure related to the use of derivatives employed by the company of $273 million. the remainder of the fluctuation is attributable to numerous immaterial items. sensitivity analysis: equity prices. the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of the company portfolio due to a 10% change in equity at december 31, 2009 by type of asset or liability: december 31, 2009 assuming a estimated 10% increase notional fair in equity amount value (1) prices (in millions) assets: equity securities $ 3,084 $ 337 other invested assets: net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) 76 (10 ) total assets $ 327 liabilities: policyholder account balances $ 96,735 $ other liabilities: net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) 1,505 414 total liabilities $ 414 derivative instruments: interest rate swaps $ 38,152 $ 315 $ interest rate floors $ 23,691 424 interest rate caps $ 28,409 283 interest rate futures $ 7,563 (2 ) interest rate options $ 4,050 60 interest rate forwards $ 9,921 39 synthetic gics $ 4,352 foreign currency swaps $ 16,879 122 foreign currency forwards $ 6,485 26 currency options $ 822 18 credit default swaps $ 6,723 (56 ) credit forwards $ 220 (4 ) equity futures $ 7,405 23 (228 ) equity options $ 27,175 694 (754 ) variance swaps $ 13,654 123 10 total rate of return swaps $ 376 (47 ) 13 total derivative instruments $ (959 ) net change $ (218 ) 171 table of contents (1) estimated fair value presented in the table above represents the estimated fair value of all financial instruments within this financial statement caption not necessarily those solely subject to equity price risk. (2) embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. equity price risk increased by $42 million to $218 million at december 31, 2009 from $176 million at december 31, 2008. this increase is due to an increase of risk of $219 million attributed to the use of derivatives employed by the company to hedge its equity exposures, partially offset by an increase in equity securities of $119 million and an increase in net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts of $53 million. the remainder is attributable to numerous immaterial items. 172risk factors 28 risk factors difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations and these conditions may not improve in the near future our business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally, both in the u.s. and elsewhere around the world. stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in global capital markets or in particular markets or financial asset classes can have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and our insurance liabilities are sensitive to changing market factors. disruptions in one market or asset class can also spread to other markets or asset classes. although the disruption in the global financial markets that began in late 2007 has moderated, not all global financial markets are functioning normally, and some remain reliant upon government intervention and liquidity. upheavals in the financial markets can also affect our business through their effects on general levels of economic activity, employment and customer behavior. although the recent recession in the u.s. ended in june of 2009, the recovery from the recession has been below historic averages and the unemployment rate is expected to remain high for some time. in addition, inflation is expected to remain at low levels for some time. some economists believe that some level of disinflation and deflation risk remains in the u.s. economy. the global recession and disruption of the financial markets has led to concerns over capital markets access and the solvency of certain european union member states, including portugal, ireland, italy, greece and spain. the japanese economy, to which we face increased exposure as a result of the acquisition, continues to experience low nominal growth, a deflationary environment, and weak consumer spending. our revenues and net investment income are likely to remain under pressure in such circumstances and our profit margins could erode. also, in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the recent global credit crisis, we could incur significant capital and/or operating losses. even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. we are a significant writer of variable annuity products. the account values of these products decrease as a result of downturns in capital markets. decreases in account values reduce the fees generated by our variable annuity products, cause the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs ( dac ) to accelerate and could increase the level of insurance liabilities we must carry to support those variable annuities issued with any associated guarantees. factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and 28 table of contents profitability of our business. in an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. group insurance, in particular, is affected by the higher unemployment rate. in addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the recent market turmoil has precipitated, and may continue to raise the possibility of, legislative, regulatory and governmental actions. we cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur, or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. see actions of the u.s. government, federal reserve bank of new york and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing and revitalizing the financial markets and protecting investors and consumers may not achieve the intended effect or could adversely affect metlife competitive position, various aspects of dodd-frank could impact our business operations, capital requirements and profitability and limit our growth, our insurance, brokerage and banking businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth and competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability. adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital the capital and credit markets are sometimes subject to periods of extreme volatility and disruption. such volatility and disruption could cause liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers to be limited. we need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock, maintain our securities lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities. without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our operations, and our business will suffer. the principal sources of our liquidity are insurance premiums, annuity considerations, deposit funds, and cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash. sources of liquidity in normal markets also include short-term instruments such as funding agreements and commercial paper. sources of capital in normal markets include long-term instruments, medium- and long-term debt, junior subordinated debt securities, capital securities and equity securities. in the event market or other conditions have an adverse impact on our capital and liquidity beyond expectations and our current resources do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing. the availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, regulatory considerations, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to a market downturn. similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient and, in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. our liquidity requirements may change if, among other things, we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral on short notice under securities lending agreements. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business, most significantly our insurance operations. such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy regulatory capital requirements (under both insurance and banking laws); and access the capital necessary to grow our business. see business u.s. regulation financial holding company regulation for information relating to the possible impact of basel ii and basel iii on the company. as such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue different types of securities than we would otherwise, less effectively deploy such capital, issue shorter tenor securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. 29 table of contents actions of the u.s. government, federal reserve bank of new york and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing and revitalizing the financial markets and protecting investors and consumers may not achieve the intended effect or could adversely affect metlife competitive position in recent years, congress, the federal reserve bank of new york, the fdic, the u.s. treasury and other agencies of the u.s. federal government took a number of increasingly aggressive actions (in addition to continuing a series of interest rate reductions that began in the second half of 2007) intended to provide liquidity to financial institutions and markets, to avert a loss of investor confidence in particular troubled institutions, to prevent or contain the spread of the financial crisis and to spur economic growth. most of these programs have largely run their course or been discontinued. more likely to be relevant to metlife, inc. is the monetary policy implemented by the federal reserve board, as well as dodd-frank, which will significantly change financial regulation in the u.s. in a number of areas that could affect metlife. given the large number of provisions that must be implemented through regulatory action, we cannot predict what impact this could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. it is not certain what effect the enactment of dodd-frank will have on the financial markets, the availability of credit, asset prices and metlife operations. see various aspects of dodd-frank could impact our business operations, capital requirements and profitability and limit our growth. in addition, the u.s. federal government (including the fdic) and private lenders have instituted programs to reduce the monthly payment obligations of mortgagors and/or reduce the principal payable on residential mortgage loans. as a result of such programs or of any legislation requiring loan modifications, we may need to maintain or increase our engagement in similar activities in order to comply with program or statutory requirements and to remain competitive. we cannot predict whether the funds made available by the u.s. federal government and its agencies will be enough to continue stabilizing or to further revive the financial markets or, if additional amounts are necessary, whether the federal reserve board will make funds available, whether congress will be willing to make the necessary appropriations, what the public sentiment would be towards any such appropriations, or what additional requirements or conditions might be imposed on the use of any such additional funds. the choices made by the u.s. treasury, the federal reserve board and the fdic in their distribution of funds under eesa and any future asset purchase programs, as well as any decisions made regarding the imposition of additional regulation on large financial institutions may have, over time, the effect of supporting or burdening some aspects of the financial services industry more than others. some of our competitors have received, or may in the future receive, benefits under one or more of the federal government programs. this could adversely affect our competitive position. see competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability. see also new and impending compensation and corporate governance regulations could hinder or prevent us from attracting and retaining management and other employees with the talent and experience to manage and conduct our business effectively and our insurance, brokerage and banking businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. our insurance, brokerage and banking businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth our insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of insurance and other laws and regulations. see business u.s. regulation insurance regulation. state insurance laws regulate most aspects of our u.s. insurance businesses, and our insurance subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled and the states in which they are licensed. our non-u.s. insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled or operate. see business international regulation. state laws in the u.s. grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things: licensing companies and agents to transact business; calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements; mandating certain insurance benefits; 30 table of contents regulating certain premium rates; reviewing and approving policy forms; regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution arrangements and payment of inducements; regulating advertising; protecting privacy; establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency standards; fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity contracts; approving changes in control of insurance companies; restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates; and regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments. state insurance guaranty associations have the right to assess insurance companies doing business in their state for funds to help pay the obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. because the amount and timing of an assessment is beyond our control, the liabilities that we have currently established for these potential liabilities may not be adequate. see business u.s. regulation insurance regulation guaranty associations and similar arrangements. state insurance regulators and the naic regularly reexamine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. currently, the u.s. federal government does not directly regulate the business of insurance. however, dodd-frank allows federal regulators to compel state insurance regulators to liquidate an insolvent insurer under some circumstances if the state regulators have not acted within a specific period. it also establishes the federal insurance office which has the authority to participate in the negotiations of international insurance agreements with foreign regulators for the u.s. the federal insurance office also is authorized to collect information about the insurance industry and recommend prudential standards. federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies. these areas include financial services regulation, securities regulation, pension regulation, health care regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. in addition, various forms of direct and indirect federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time, including proposals for the establishment of an optional federal charter for insurance companies. other aspects of our insurance operations could also be affected by dodd-frank. for example, dodd-frank imposes new restrictions on the ability of affiliates of insured depository institutions (such as metlife bank) to engage in proprietary trading or sponsor or invest in hedge funds or private equity funds. see various aspects of dodd-frank could impact our business operations, capital requirements and profitability and limit our growth. as a federally chartered national association, metlife bank is subject to a wide variety of banking laws, regulations and guidelines. federal banking laws regulate most aspects of the business of metlife bank, but certain state laws may apply as well. metlife bank is principally regulated by the occ, the federal reserve and the fdic. federal banking laws and regulations address various aspects of metlife bank business and operations with respect to, among other things: chartering to carry on business as a bank; the permissibility of certain activities; maintaining minimum capital ratios; 31 table of contents capital management in relation to the bank assets; dividend payments; safety and soundness standards; loan loss and other related liabilities; liquidity; financial reporting and disclosure standards; counterparty credit concentration; restrictions on related party and affiliate transactions; lending limits (and, in addition, dodd-frank includes the credit exposures arising from securities lending by metlife bank within lending limits otherwise applicable to loans); payment of interest; unfair or deceptive acts or practices; privacy; and bank holding company and bank change of control. federal and state banking regulators regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to banks and their products. changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the bank and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of metlife bank. in addition, dodd-frank establishes a new bureau of consumer financial protection that supervises and regulates institutions providing certain financial products and services to consumers. although the consumer financial services to which this legislation applies exclude insurance business of the kind in which we engage, the new bureau has authority to regulate consumer services provided by metlife bank and non-insurance consumer services provided elsewhere throughout metlife. dodd-frank established a statutory standard for federal pre-emption of state consumer financial protection laws, which standard will require national banks to comply with many state consumer financial protection laws that previously were considered preempted by federal law. as a result, the regulatory and compliance burden on metlife bank may increase and could adversely affect its business and results of operations. dodd-frank also includes provisions on mortgage lending, anti-predatory lending and other regulatory and supervisory provisions that could impact the business and operations of metlife bank. dodd-frank also authorizes the sec to establish a standard of conduct applicable to brokers and dealers when providing personalized investment advice to retail and other customers. this standard of conduct would be to act in the best interest of the customer without regard to the financial or other interest of the broker or dealer providing the advice. see business u.s. regulation banking regulation and changes in u.s. federal and state securities laws and regulations, and state insurance regulations regarding suitability of annuity product sales, may affect our operations and our profitability. in december 2010, the basel committee on banking supervision published basel iii for banks and bank holding companies, such as metlife, inc. assuming regulators in the u.s. endorse and adopt basel iii, it will require banks and bank holding companies to hold greater amounts of capital, to comply with requirements for short-term liquidity and to reduce reliance on short-term funding sources. see business u.s. regulation financial holding company regulation capital and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends financial and economic environment. it is not clear how these new requirements will compare to the enhanced prudential standards that may apply to us under dodd-frank. see various aspects of dodd-frank could impact our business operations, capital requirements and profitability and limit our growth. 32 table of contents as a bank holding company, metlife, inc. ability to pay dividends may be restricted by the federal reserve bank of new york. in addition, the ability of metlife bank and metlife, inc. to pay dividends could be restricted by any additional capital requirements that might be imposed as a result of the enactment of dodd-frank and/or the endorsement and adoption by the u.s. of basel iii. the fdic has the right to assess fdic-insured banks for funds to help pay the obligations of insolvent banks to depositors. because the amount and timing of an assessment is beyond our control, the liabilities that we have currently established for these potential liabilities may not be adequate. in addition, dodd-frank will result in increased assessment for banks with assets of $10.0 billion or more, which includes metlife bank. our international operations are subject to regulation in the jurisdictions in which they operate, as described further under business international regulation. a significant portion of our revenues are generated through operations in foreign jurisdictions, including many countries in early stages of economic and political development. our international operations may be materially adversely affected by foreign authorities and regulators, such as through nationalization or expropriation of assets, the imposition of limits on foreign ownership, changes in laws or their interpretation or application, political instability, dividend limitations, price controls, currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold to u.s. dollars or other currencies, as well as adverse actions by foreign governmental authorities and regulators. this may also impact many of our customers and independent sales intermediaries. changes in the regulations that affect their operations also may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or distribute our products. accordingly, these changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our international operations are subject to local laws and regulations, and we expect the scope and extent of regulation outside of the u.s., as well as regulatory oversight, generally to continue to increase. the authority of our international operations to conduct business is subject to licensing requirements, permits and approvals, and these authorizations are subject to modification and revocation. the regulatory environment in the countries in which we operate and changes in laws could have a material adverse effect on us and our foreign operations. see our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability and business international regulation. furthermore, the increase in our international operations as a result of the acquisition of alico may also subject us to increased supervision by the federal reserve board, since the size of a bank holding company foreign activities is taken as an indication of the holding company complexity. it may also have an effect on the manner in which metlife, inc. is required to calculate its rbc. compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations or audits of metlife, inc. regulated subsidiaries that could, if determined adversely, have a material impact on us. we cannot predict whether or when regulatory actions may be taken that could adversely affect our operations. in addition, the interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements. we are also subject to other regulations and may in the future become subject to additional regulations. see business u.s. regulation and business international regulation. 33 table of contents various aspects of dodd-frank could impact our business operations, capital requirements and profitability and limit our growth on july 21, 2010, president obama signed dodd-frank. various provisions of dodd-frank could affect our business operations and our profitability and limit our growth. for example: as a large, interconnected bank holding company with assets of $50 billion or more, or possibly as an otherwise systemically important financial company, metlife, inc. will be subject to enhanced prudential standards imposed on systemically significant financial companies. enhanced standards will be applied to rbc, liquidity, leverage (unless another, similar, standard is appropriate), resolution plan and credit exposure reporting, concentration limits, and risk management. off-balance sheet activities are required to be accounted for in meeting capital requirements. in addition, if it were determined that metlife posed a substantial threat to u.s. financial stability, the applicable federal regulators would have the right to require it to take one or more other mitigating actions to reduce that risk, including limiting its ability to merge with or acquire another company, terminating activities, restricting its ability to offer financial products or requiring it to sell assets or off-balance sheet items to unaffiliated entities. enhanced standards would also permit, but not require, regulators to establish requirements with respect to contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures and short-term debt limits. these standards are described as being more stringent than those otherwise imposed on bank holding companies; however, the federal reserve board is permitted to apply them on an institution-by-institution basis, depending on its determination of the institution riskiness. in addition, under dodd-frank, all bank holding companies that have elected to be treated as financial holding companies, such as metlife, inc. will be required to be well capitalized and well managed as defined by the federal reserve board, on a consolidated basis and not just at their depository institution(s), a higher standard than was applicable to financial holding companies before dodd-frank. metlife, inc., as a bank holding company, will have to meet minimum leverage ratio and rbc requirements on a consolidated basis to be established by the federal reserve board that are not less than those applicable to insured depository institutions under so-called prompt corrective action regulations as in effect on the date of the enactment of dodd-frank. one consequence of these new rules will ultimately be the inability of bank holding companies to include trust-preferred securities as part of their tier 1 capital. because of the phase-in period for these new rules, they should have little practical effect on metlife ability to treat its currently outstanding trust-preferred securities as part of its tier 1 capital, but they do prevent metlife, inc. from treating the common equity units issued as part of the consideration for the acquisition as tier i capital, since the new rules apply immediately to instruments issued after may 19, 2010. under the provisions of dodd-frank relating to the resolution or liquidation of certain types of financial institutions, including bank holding companies, if metlife, inc. were to become insolvent or were in danger of defaulting on its obligations, it could be compelled to undergo liquidation with the fdic as receiver. for this new regime to be applicable, a number of determinations would have to be made, including that a default by the affected company would have serious adverse effects on financial stability in the u.s. if the fdic were to be appointed as the receiver for such a company, the liquidation of that company would occur under the provisions of the new liquidation authority, and not under the bankruptcy code. in such a liquidation, the holders of such company debt could in certain a respects be treated differently than under the bankruptcy code. in particular, unsecured creditors and shareholders are intended to bear the losses of the company being liquidated. the fdic is authorized to establish rules for the priority of creditors claims and, under certain circumstances, to treat similarly situated creditors differently. these provisions could apply to some financial institutions whose outstanding debt securities we hold in our investment portfolios. dodd-frank also provides for the assessment of bank holding companies with assets of $50.0 billion or more, non-bank financial companies supervised by the federal reserve bank, and other financial companies with assets of $50.0 billion or more to cover the costs of liquidating any financial company subject to the new liquidation authority. although it is not possible to assess the full impact of the liquidation authority at this time, it could affect the funding costs of large bank holding companies or financial companies that might be viewed as systemically significant. it could also lead to an increase in secured financings. dodd-frank also includes a new framework of regulation of the otc derivatives markets which will require clearing of certain types of transactions currently traded otc and could potentially impose additional costs, 34 table of contents including new capital, reporting and margin requirements and additional regulation on the company. increased margin requirements on metlife, inc. part and a smaller universe of securities that will qualify as eligible collateral could reduce its liquidity and require an increase in its holdings of cash and government securities with lower yields causing a reduction in income. however, increased margin requirements and the expanded ability to transfer trades between metlife, inc. counterparties could reduce metlife, inc. exposure to its counterparties default. metlife, inc. uses derivatives to mitigate a wide range of risks in connection with its businesses, including the impact of increased benefit exposures from our annuity products that offer guaranteed benefits. the derivative clearing requirements of dodd-frank could increase the cost of our risk mitigation and expose us to the risk of a default by a clearinghouse or one of its members. in addition, we are subject to the risk that hedging and other management procedures prove ineffective in reducing the risks to which insurance policies expose us or that unanticipated policyholder behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed. any such losses could be increased by any higher costs of writing derivatives (including customized derivatives) that might result from the enactment of dodd-frank. dodd-frank restricts the ability of insured depository institutions and of companies, such as metlife, inc., that control an insured depository institution and their affiliates, to engage in proprietary trading and to sponsor or invest in funds (hedge funds and private equity funds) that rely on certain exemptions from the investment company act. dodd-frank provides an exemption for investment activity by a regulated insurance company or its affiliate solely for the general account of such insurance company if such activity is in compliance with the insurance company investments laws of the state or jurisdiction in which such company is domiciled and the appropriate federal regulators after consultation with relevant insurance commissioners have not jointly determined such laws to be insufficient to protect the safety and soundness of the institution or the financial stability of the u.s. notwithstanding the foregoing, the appropriate federal regulatory authorities are permitted under the legislation to impose, as part of rulemaking, additional capital requirements and other restrictions on any exempted activity. dodd-frank provides for a period of study and rule making during which the effects of the statutory language may be clarified. among other considerations, the study is to assess and include recommendations so as to appropriately accommodate the business of insurance within an insurance company subject to regulation in accordance with relevant insurance company investments laws. while these provisions of dodd-frank are supposed to accommodate the business of insurance, until the related study and rulemaking are complete, it is unclear whether metlife, inc. may have to alter any of its future investment activities to comply. until various studies are completed and final regulations are promulgated pursuant to dodd-frank, the full impact of dodd-frank on the investments and investment activities and insurance and annuity products of metlife, inc. and its subsidiaries remains unclear. for example, besides directly limiting our future investment activities, dodd-frank could potentially negatively impact the market for, the returns from, or liquidity in, primary and secondary investments in private equity funds and hedge funds that are connected to (either through a fund sponsorship or investor relationship) an insured depository institution. the number of sponsors of such funds going forward may diminish, which may impact our available fund investment opportunities. although dodd-frank provides for various transition periods for coming into compliance, fund sponsors that are subject to dodd-frank, and whose funds we have invested in, may have to spin off their funds business or reduce their ownership stakes in their funds, thereby potentially impacting our related investments in such funds. in addition, should such funds be required or choose to liquidate or sell their underlying assets, the market value and liquidity of such assets or the broader related asset classes could negatively be affected, including securities and real estate assets that metlife, inc. and its subsidiaries hold or may plan to sell. secondary sales of fund interests at significant discounts by banking institutions and their affiliates, which are not fund sponsors but nevertheless are subject to the divestment requirements of dodd-frank, could reduce the returns realized by investors such as metlife, inc. and its subsidiaries seeking to access liquidity by selling their fund interests. in addition, our existing derivatives counterparties and the financial institutions subject to dodd-frank in which we have invested also could be negatively impacted by dodd-frank. see also new and impending compensation and corporate governance regulations could hinder or prevent us from attracting and retaining management and other employees with the talent and experience to manage and conduct our business effectively. 35 table of contents in addition, dodd-frank statutorily imposes the requirement that metlife, inc. serve as a source of strength for metlife bank. the addition of a new regulatory regime over metlife, inc. and its subsidiaries, the likelihood of additional regulations, and the other changes discussed above could require changes to metlife, inc. operations. whether such changes would affect our competitiveness in comparison to other institutions is uncertain, since it is possible that at least some of our competitors, for example insurance holding companies that control thrifts, rather than banks, will be similarly affected. competitive effects are possible, however, if metlife, inc. were required to pay any new or increased assessments and capital requirements are imposed, and to the extent any new prudential supervisory standards are imposed on metlife, inc. but not on its competitors. we cannot predict whether other proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, the adoption of dodd-frank or other proposals and the resulting studies and regulations could have on our business, financial condition or results of operations or on our dealings with other financial companies. see also our insurance, brokerage and banking businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth and new and impending compensation and corporate governance regulations could hinder or prevent us from attracting and retaining management and other employees with the talent and experience to manage and conduct our business effectively. moreover, dodd-frank potentially affects such a wide range of the activities and markets in which metlife, inc. and its subsidiaries engage and participate that it may not be possible to anticipate all of the ways in which it could affect us. for example, many of our methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. historical market behavior may be altered by the enactment of dodd-frank. as a result of this enactment and otherwise, these methods may not fully predict future exposures, which could be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate. the resolution of several issues affecting the financial services industry could have a negative impact on our reported results or on our relations with current and potential customers we will continue to be subject to legal and regulatory actions in the ordinary course of our business, both in the u.s. and internationally. this could result in a review of business sold in the past under previously acceptable market practices at the time. regulators are increasingly interested in the approach that product providers use to select third-party distributors and to monitor the appropriateness of sales made by them. in some cases, product providers can be held responsible for the deficiencies of third-party distributors. as a result of publicity relating to widespread perceptions of industry abuses, there have been numerous regulatory inquiries and proposals for legislative and regulatory reforms. in asia, where metlife derives and will continue to derive a significant portion of its income, regulatory regimes are developing at different speeds, driven by a combination of global factors and local considerations. new requirements may be introduced that are retrospectively applied to sales made prior to their introduction. we are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and may cause our net investment income to vary from period to period we are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, market volatility, the performance of the global economy in general, the performance of the specific obligors, including governments, included in our portfolio and other factors outside our control. our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates. changes in interest rates will impact the net unrealized gain or loss position of our fixed income investment portfolio. if long-term interest rates rise dramatically within a six to twelve month time period, certain of our life insurance businesses and fixed annuity business may be exposed to disintermediation risk. disintermediation risk refers to the risk that our policyholders may surrender their contracts in a rising interest rate environment, requiring us to liquidate fixed income investments in an unrealized loss position. due to the long-term 36 table of contents nature of the liabilities associated with certain of our life insurance businesses, guaranteed benefits on variable annuities, and structured settlements, sustained declines in long-term interest rates may subject us to reinvestment risks and increased hedging costs. in other situations, declines in interest rates may result in increasing the duration of certain life insurance liabilities, creating asset-liability duration mismatches. our investment portfolio also contains interest rate sensitive instruments, such as fixed income securities, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates from governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. changes in interest rates will impact both the net unrealized gain or loss position of our fixed income portfolio and the rates of return we receive on funds invested. our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are primarily focused towards maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration that is approximately equal to the duration of our estimated liability cash flow profile. however, our estimate of the liability cash flow profile may be inaccurate and we may be forced to liquidate fixed income investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to cover the cash flow profile of the liability. although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our fixed income investments relative to our liabilities. see also changes in market interest rates may significantly affect our profitability. our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price volatility and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads. a widening of credit spreads will adversely impact both the net unrealized gain or loss position of the fixed-income investment portfolio, will increase losses associated with credit-based non-qualifying derivatives where we assume credit exposure, and, if issuer credit spreads increase significantly or for an extended period of time, will likely result in higher other-than-temporary impairments. credit spread tightening will reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed maturity securities. in addition, market volatility can make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent. as such, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period to period changes which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. credit spreads on both corporate and structured securities widened significantly during 2008, resulting in continuing depressed pricing. as a result of improved conditions, credit spreads narrowed in 2009 and changed to a lesser extent in 2010. if there is a resumption of significant volatility in the markets, it could cause changes in credit spreads and defaults and a lack of pricing transparency which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses, impairments, and changes in unrealized loss positions. our primary exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with certain of our insurance businesses where fee income is earned based upon the estimated fair value of the assets under management. downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a material adverse effect on the revenues and investment returns from our savings and investment products and services. because these products and services generate fees related primarily to the value of assets under management, a decline in the equity markets could reduce our revenues from the reduction in the value of the investments we manage. the retail variable annuity business in particular is highly sensitive to equity markets, and a sustained weakness in the equity markets could decrease revenues and earnings in variable annuity products. furthermore, certain of our variable annuity products offer guaranteed benefits which increase our potential benefit exposure should equity markets decline. metlife, inc. uses derivatives and reinsurance to mitigate the impact of such increased potential benefit exposures. we are also exposed to interest rate and equity risk based upon the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return assumptions associated with our pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. sustained declines in long-term interest rates or equity returns likely would have a negative effect on the funded status of these plans. lastly, we invest a portion of our investments in public and private equity securities, leveraged buy-out funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds and the estimated fair value of such investments may be impacted by downturns or volatility in equity markets. our primary exposure to real estate risk relates to commercial and agricultural real estate. our exposure to commercial and agricultural real estate risk stems from various factors. these factors include, but are not limited to, market conditions including the demand and supply of leasable commercial space, creditworthiness of tenants and partners, capital markets volatility and the inherent interest rate movement. in addition, our real estate joint venture development program is subject to risks, including, but not limited to, reduced property sales and decreased availability of financing which could adversely impact the joint venture developments and/or operations. the state of the economy 37 table of contents and speed of recovery in fundamental and capital market conditions in the commercial and agricultural real estate sectors will continue to influence the performance of our investments in these sectors. these factors and others beyond our control could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows through net investment income, realized investment losses and levels of valuation allowances. our investment portfolio contains investments in government bonds issued by european nations. recently, the european union member states have experienced above average public debt, inflation and unemployment as the global economic downturn has developed. a number of member states are significantly impacted by the economies of their more influential neighbors, such as germany. in addition, financial troubles of one nation can trigger a domino effect on others. in particular, a number of large european banks hold significant amounts of sovereign financial institution debt of other european nations and could experience difficulties as a result of defaults or declines in the value of such debt. our investment portfolio also contains investments in revenue bonds issued under the auspices of u.s. states and municipalities and a limited amount of general obligation bonds of u.s. states and municipalities (collectively, municipal bonds ). recently, certain u.s. states and municipalities have faced budget deficits and financial difficulties. there can be no assurance that the financial difficulties of such u.s. states and municipalities would not have an adverse impact on our municipal bond portfolio. our primary foreign currency exchange risks are described under fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our profitability. changes in these factors, which are significant risks to us, can affect our net investment income in any period, and such changes can be substantial. a portion of our investments are made in leveraged buy-out funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds, many of which make private equity investments. the amount and timing of net investment income from such investment funds tends to be uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying investments, including private equity investments. the timing of distributions from the funds, which depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds schedules for making distributions and their needs for cash, can be difficult to predict. as a result, the amount of net investment income that we record from these investments can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. recovering private equity markets and stabilizing credit and real estate markets during 2010 had a positive impact on returns and net investment income on private equity funds, hedge funds and real estate joint ventures, which are included within other limited partnership interests and real estate and real estate joint venture portfolios. although volatility in most global financial markets has moderated, if there is a resumption of significant volatility, it could adversely impact returns and net investment income on these alternative investment classes. continuing challenges include continued weakness in the u.s. real estate market and increased residential mortgage loan and other consumer loan delinquencies, investor anxiety over the u.s. and european economies, rating agency downgrades of various structured products and financial issuers, unresolved issues with structured investment vehicles and monoline financial guarantee insurers, deleveraging of financial institutions and hedge funds and the continuing recovery in the inter-bank market. if there is a resumption of significant volatility in the markets, it could cause changes in interest rates, declines in equity prices, and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses, impairments, increased valuation allowances and changes in unrealized gain or loss positions. changes in market interest rates may significantly affect our profitability some of our products, principally traditional whole life insurance, fixed annuities and guaranteed interest contracts, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our investment margin or spread, or the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts in our general account and the rate of return we are able to earn on general account investments intended to support obligations under the contracts. our spread is a key component of our net income. as interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, reducing our investment margin. moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the fixed income securities, commercial or agricultural mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio with greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates, which exacerbates this risk. 38 table of contents lowering interest crediting rates can help offset decreases in investment margins on some products. however, our ability to lower these rates could be limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. as a result, our spread could decrease or potentially become negative. our expectation for future spreads is an important component in the amortization of dac and value of business acquired ( voba ), and significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period. in addition, during periods of declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be relatively more attractive investments to consumers, resulting in increased premium payments on products with flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans and increased persistency, or a higher percentage of insurance policies remaining in force from year to year, during a period when our new investments carry lower returns. a decline in market interest rates could also reduce our return on investments that do not support particular policy obligations. accordingly, declining interest rates may materially affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows and significantly reduce our profitability. we recognize that a low interest rate environment will adversely affect our earnings, but we do not believe any such impact will be material in 2011. the sufficiency of our life insurance statutory reserves in taiwan is highly sensitive to interest rates and other related assumptions. this is due to the sustained low interest rate environment in taiwan coupled with long-term interest rate guarantees of approximately 6% embedded in the life and health contracts sold prior to 2003 and the lack of availability of long-duration investments in the taiwanese capital markets to match such long-duration liabilities. the key assumptions include current taiwan government bond yield rates increasing approximately 1% from current levels over the next ten years, lapse rates, mortality and morbidity levels remaining consistent with recent experience, and u.s. dollar-denominated investments making up to 35% of total assets backing life insurance statutory reserves. current reserve adequacy analysis shows that provisions are adequate; however, adverse changes in key assumptions for interest rates, lapse experience and mortality and morbidity levels could lead to a need to strengthen reserves. increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect our profitability. in periods of rapidly increasing interest rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, the investments in metlife general account with higher yielding investments needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep interest sensitive products competitive. we, therefore, may have to accept a lower spread and, thus, lower profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of existing contracts and related assets. in addition, policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals may tend to increase as policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns as interest rates rise. this process may result in cash outflows requiring that we sell investments at a time when the prices of those investments are adversely affected by the increase in market interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses. unanticipated withdrawals and terminations may cause us to accelerate the amortization of dac, voba and negative voba, which reduces net income. an increase in market interest rates could also have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the estimated fair values of the fixed income securities that comprise a substantial portion of our investment portfolio. lastly, an increase in interest rates could result in decreased fee income associated with a decline in the value of variable annuity account balances invested in fixed income funds. some of our investments are relatively illiquid and are in asset classes that have been experiencing significant market valuation fluctuations we hold certain investments that may lack liquidity, such as privately-placed fixed maturity securities; mortgage loans; policy loans and leveraged leases; equity real estate, including real estate joint ventures and funds; and other limited partnership interests. these asset classes represented 26.6% of the carrying value of our total cash and investments at december 31, 2010. in recent years, even some of our very high quality investments experienced reduced liquidity during periods of market volatility or disruption. if we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal cash requirements or are required to post or return cash collateral in connection with our investment portfolio, derivatives transactions or securities lending program, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize, or both. the reported value of our relatively illiquid types of investments, our investments in the asset classes described above and, at times, our high quality, generally liquid asset classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest current market price for the asset. if we were forced to sell certain of our investments in the global market, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded them and we could be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices. 39 table of contents our participation in a securities lending program subjects us to potential liquidity and other risks we participate in a securities lending program whereby blocks of securities, which are included in fixed maturity securities and short-term investments, are loaned to third parties, primarily brokerage firms and commercial banks. we generally obtain collateral in an amount equal to 102% of the estimated fair value of the loaned securities, which is obtained at the inception of a loan and maintained at a level greater than or equal to 100% for the duration of the loan. returns of loaned securities by the third parties would require us to return the collateral associated with such loaned securities. in addition, in some cases, the maturity of the securities held as invested collateral (i.e., securities that we have purchased with cash collateral received from the third parties) may exceed the term of the related securities on loan and the estimated fair value may fall below the amount of cash received as collateral and invested. if we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral on short notice and we are forced to sell securities to meet the return obligation, we may have difficulty selling such collateral that is invested in securities in a timely manner, be forced to sell securities in a volatile or illiquid market for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize under normal market conditions, or both. in addition, under stressful capital market and economic conditions, liquidity broadly deteriorates, which may further restrict our ability to sell securities. if we decrease the amount of our securities lending activities over time, the amount of net investment income generated by these activities will also likely decline. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments securities lending. our requirements to pledge collateral or make payments related to declines in estimated fair value of specified assets may adversely affect our liquidity and expose us to counterparty credit risk some of our transactions with financial and other institutions specify the circumstances under which the parties are required to pledge collateral related to any decline in the estimated fair value of the specified assets. in addition, under the terms of some of our transactions, we may be required to make payments to our counterparties related to any decline in the estimated fair value of the specified assets. the amount of collateral we may be required to pledge and the payments we may be required to make under these agreements may increase under certain circumstances, which could adversely affect our liquidity. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital sources collateral financing arrangements and note 12 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities may be realized or result in future impairments, resulting in a reduction in our net income fixed maturity and equity securities classified as available-for-sale are reported at their estimated fair value. unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale securities are recognized as a component of other comprehensive income (loss) and are, therefore, excluded from net income. our gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities available for sale at december 31, 2010 were $6.9 billion. the portion of the $6.9 billion of gross unrealized losses for fixed maturity and equity securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below amortized cost or cost by 20% or more for six months or greater was $2.1 billion at december 31, 2010. the accumulated change in estimated fair value of these available-for-sale securities is recognized in net income when the gain or loss is realized upon the sale of the security or in the event that the decline in estimated fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary and an impairment charge to earnings is taken. realized losses or impairments may have a material adverse effect on our net income in a particular quarterly or annual period. the determination of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on our investments is highly subjective and could materially impact our results of operations or financial position the determination of the amount of allowances and impairments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. we update our evaluations regularly and reflect changes in allowances and impairments in net investment losses as such evaluations are revised. additional impairments may need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future. furthermore, historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances. 40 table of contents for example, the cost of our fixed maturity and equity securities is adjusted for impairments deemed to be other-than-temporary. the assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on our case-by-case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in estimated fair value. the review of our fixed maturity and equity securities for impairments includes an analysis of the total gross unrealized losses by three categories of securities: (i) securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%; (ii) securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for less than six months; and (iii) securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for six months or greater. additionally, we consider a wide range of factors about the security issuer and use our best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near term recovery. inherent in our evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. considerations in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to: (i) the length of time and the extent to which the estimated fair value has been below cost or amortized cost; (ii) the potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is experiencing significant financial difficulties; (iii) the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub-sector; (iv) the potential for impairments in certain economically depressed geographic locations; (v) the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has exhausted natural resources; (vi) with respect to fixed maturity securities, whether we have the intent to sell or will more likely than not be required to sell a particular security before recovery of the decline in estimated fair value below amortized cost; (vii) with respect to equity securities, whether we have the ability and intent to hold a particular security for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its estimated fair value to an amount at least equal to its cost; (viii) unfavorable changes in forecasted cash flows on mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities ( abs ); and (ix) other subjective factors, including concentrations and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies. defaults on our mortgage loans and volatility in performance may adversely affect our profitability our mortgage loans face default risk and are principally collateralized by commercial, agricultural and residential properties. we establish valuation allowances for estimated impairments at the balance sheet date. such valuation allowances are based on the excess carrying value of the loan over the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan original effective interest rate, the estimated fair value of the loan collateral if the loan is in the process of foreclosure or otherwise collateral dependent, or the loan observable market price. we also establish valuation allowances for loan losses for pools of loans with similar risk characteristics, such as property types, or loans having similar loan-to-value ratios and debt service coverage ratios, when based on past experience, it is probable that a credit event has occurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. these valuation allowances are based on loan risk characteristics, historical default rates and loss severities, real estate market fundamentals and outlook as well as other relevant factors. at december 31, 2010, mortgage loans that were either delinquent or in the process of foreclosure totaled less than 0.6% of our mortgage loan investments. the performance of our mortgage loan investments, however, may fluctuate in the future. in addition, substantially all of our mortgage loans held-for-investment have balloon payment maturities. an increase in the default rate of our mortgage loan investments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition through realized investment losses or increases in our valuation allowances. further, any geographic or sector concentration of our mortgage loans may have adverse effects on our investment portfolios and consequently on our results of operations or financial condition. while we seek to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated. moreover, our ability to sell assets relating to such particular groups of related assets may be limited if other market participants are seeking to sell at the same time. in addition, legislative proposals that would allow or require modifications to the terms of mortgage loans could be enacted. we cannot predict whether these proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business or investments. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments mortgage loans. 41 table of contents the impairment of other financial institutions could adversely affect us we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge funds and other investment funds and other institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. in addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. we also have exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments, non-redeemable and redeemable preferred securities, derivative transactions, joint venture, hedge fund and equity investments. further, potential action by governments and regulatory bodies in response to the financial crisis affecting the global banking system and financial markets, such as investment, nationalization, conservatorship, receivership and other intervention, whether under existing legal authority or any new authority that may be created, could negatively impact these instruments, securities, transactions and investments. there can be no assurance that any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these investments would not materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. we face unforeseen liabilities, asset impairments or rating actions arising from acquisitions, including alico, and dispositions of businesses or difficulties integrating and managing growth of such businesses we have engaged in dispositions and acquisitions of businesses in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future. acquisition and disposition activity exposes us to a number of risks. there could be unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments, including goodwill impairments, that arise in connection with the businesses that we may sell or the businesses that we may acquire in the future. in addition, there may be liabilities or asset impairments that we fail, or are unable, to discover in the course of performing due diligence investigations on each business that we have acquired or may acquire. furthermore, even for obligations and liabilities that we do discover during the due diligence process, neither the valuation adjustment nor the contractual protections we negotiate may be sufficient to fully protect us from losses. for example, in connection with the acquisition of alico, we may be exposed to obligations and liabilities of alico that are not adequately covered, in amount, scope or duration, by the indemnification provisions in the stock purchase agreement or reflected or reserved for in alico historical financial statements. although we have rights to indemnification from alico holdings under the stock purchase agreement for certain losses, our rights are limited by survival periods for bringing claims and monetary limitations on the amount we may recover, and we cannot be certain that indemnification will be, among other things, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any loss we may suffer. furthermore, the use of our own funds as consideration in any acquisition would consume capital resources that would no longer be available for other corporate purposes. we also may not be able to raise sufficient funds to consummate an acquisition if, for example, we are unable to sell our securities or close related bridge credit facilities. moreover, as a result of uncertainty and risks associated with potential acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, rating agencies may take certain actions with respect to the ratings assigned to metlife, inc. and/or its subsidiaries. our ability to achieve certain benefits we anticipate from any acquisitions of businesses will depend in large part upon our ability to successfully integrate such businesses in an efficient and effective manner. we may not be able to integrate such businesses smoothly or successfully, and the process may take longer than expected. the integration of operations and differences in operational culture may require the dedication of significant management resources, which may distract management attention from day-to-day business. if we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of such acquired businesses, we may be unable to realize the benefits we expect to achieve as a result of such acquisitions and our business and results of operations may be less than expected. 42 table of contents the success with which we are able to integrate acquired operations, will depend on our ability to manage a variety of issues, including the following: loss of key personnel or higher than expected employee attrition rates could adversely affect the performance of the acquired business and our ability to integrate it successfully. customers of the acquired business may reduce, delay or defer decisions concerning their use of its products and services as a result of the acquisition or uncertainty related to the consummation of the acquisition, including, for example, potential unfamiliarity with the metlife brand in regions where metlife did not have a market presence prior to the acquisition. if the acquired business relies upon independent distributors to distribute its products, these distributors may not continue to generate the same volume of business for metlife after the acquisition. independent distributors may reexamine the scope of their relationship with the acquired business or metlife as a result of the acquisition and decide to curtail or eliminate distribution of our products. integrating acquired operations with our existing operations may require us to coordinate geographically separated organizations, address possible differences in corporate culture and management philosophies, merge financial processes and risk and compliance procedures, combine separate information technology platforms and integrate operations that were previously closely tied to the former parent of the acquired business or other service providers. in cases where we or an acquired business operates in certain markets through joint ventures, the acquisition may affect the continued success and prospects of the joint venture. our ability to exercise management control or influence over these joint venture operations and our investment in them will depend on the continued cooperation between the joint venture participants and on the terms of the joint venture agreements, which allocate control among the joint venture participants. we may face financial or other exposure in the event that any of these joint venture partners fail to meet their obligations under the joint venture, encounter financial difficulty or elect to alter, modify or terminate the relationship. we may incur significant costs in connection with any acquisition and the related integration. the costs and liabilities actually incurred in connection with an acquisition and subsequent integration process may exceed those anticipated. all of these challenges are present in our integration of alico, which we expect to extend over a substantial period. the prospects of our business also may be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to manage the growth of any acquired business successfully. for example, the life insurance markets in many of the international markets in which alico operates have experienced significant growth in recent years. management of alico growth to date has required significant management and operational resources and is likely to continue to do so. future growth of our combined business will require, among other things, the continued development of adequate underwriting and claim handling capabilities and skills, sufficient capital base, increased marketing and sales activities, and the hiring and training of new personnel. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in managing future growth of any acquired business, including alico. in particular, there may be difficulties in hiring and training sufficient numbers of customer service personnel and agents to keep pace with any future growth in the number of customers in our developing or developed markets. in addition, we may experience difficulties in upgrading, developing and expanding information technology systems quickly enough to accommodate any future growth. if we are unable to manage future growth, our prospects may be materially and adversely affected. there can be no assurance that the closing agreement american life entered into with the irs will achieve its intended effect, or that american life will be able to comply with the related agreed upon plan on march 4, 2010, american life entered into a closing agreement with the commissioner of the irs with respect to a u.s. withholding tax issue arising from payments by foreign branches of a life insurance company 43 table of contents incorporated under u.s. law. irs revenue ruling 2004-75, effective january 1, 2005, requires foreign branches of u.s. life insurance companies in certain circumstances to withhold u.s. income taxes on payments of taxable income made with respect to certain insurance and annuity products paid to customers resident in a foreign country. the closing agreement provides transitional relief under section 7805(b) of the code to american life, such that american life foreign branches will not be required to withhold u.s. income tax on the income portion of payments made pursuant to american life life insurance and annuity contracts ( covered payments ) under irs revenue ruling 2004-75 for any tax periods beginning on january 1, 2005 and ending on december 31, 2013 (the deferral period ). in accordance with the closing agreement, american life submitted a plan to the irs indicating the steps american life will take (on a country by country basis) to ensure that no substantial amount of u.s. withholding tax will arise from covered payments made by american life foreign branches to foreign customers after the deferral period. in addition, the closing agreement requires that such plan be updated in quarterly filings with the irs. the closing agreement is final and binding upon american life and the irs; provided , however , that the agreement can be reopened in the event of malfeasance, fraud or a misrepresentation of a material fact, and is subject to change of law risk that occurs after the effective date of the closing agreement (with certain exceptions). in addition, the closing agreement provides that no legislative amendment to section 861(a)(1)(a) of the code shall shorten the deferral period, regardless of when such amendment is enacted. the plan american life delivered to the irs involves the transfer of businesses from certain of the foreign branches of american life to one or more existing or newly-formed foreign affiliates of american life; however, the plan is subject to change pursuant to the quarterly updates that american life will provide to the irs. an estimate of the costs to comply with the plan has been recorded in the financial statements. also the achievement of the plan presented to the irs within the required time frame of december 31, 2013 is contingent upon regulatory approvals and other requirements. failure to achieve the plan in a timely manner could cause american life to be required to withhold u.s. income taxes on the taxable portion of payments made by american life foreign branches after december 31, 2013 to customers resident in a foreign country, which could put american life at a competitive disadvantage with its competitors that sell similar products through foreign entities and could have a material adverse effect on american life future revenues or expenses or both. there can be no assurance that any incremental tax benefit will result from the currently planned elections under section 338 of the code metlife, inc. currently plans to make section 338 elections with respect to alico and certain of its subsidiaries, and metlife, inc. believes that alico and such subsidiaries should have additional amortizable basis in their assets for u.s. tax purposes as a result of such elections. no assurance can be given, however, as to the incremental tax benefit, if any, that will result from any such elections, if made. the issuance of certain equity securities to alico holdings in connection with the acquisition will have a dilutive impact on metlife, inc. stockholders as part of the consideration paid to alico holdings pursuant to the terms of the stock purchase agreement, metlife, inc. issued to alico holdings (a) 78,239,712 shares of its common stock, (b) 6,857,000 shares of the series b contingent convertible junior participating non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock (the convertible preferred stock ), which will be convertible into approximately 68,570,000 shares of metlife, inc. common stock (subject to anti-dilution adjustments) upon a favorable vote of metlife, inc. common stockholders, and (c) $3.0 billion aggregate stated amount of metlife, inc. common equity units, which initially consist of (x) purchase contracts obligating the holder to purchase a variable number of shares of metlife, inc. common stock on each of three specified future settlement dates (approximately two, three and four years after the closing of the acquisition, subject to deferral under certain circumstances) for a fixed amount per purchase contract (an aggregate of $1.0 billion on each settlement date) (the stock purchase contracts ) and (y) an interest in each of three series of debt securities of metlife, inc. the aggregate amount of metlife, inc. common stock expected to be issued to alico holdings in connection with the acquisition (including shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible preferred stock and shares of common stock issuable upon settlement of the stock purchase contracts) is expected to be approximately 214,600,000 to 231,500,000 shares. 44 table of contents as a result of the issuance of these securities, more shares of common stock will be outstanding and each existing stockholder will own a smaller percentage of our common stock then outstanding. subject to certain limitations, alico holdings will be able to sell metlife, inc. equity securities at any time from and after the date 270 days after the closing of the acquisition, which could cause metlife, inc. stock price to decrease alico holdings agreed in the investor rights agreement entered into in connection with the acquisition, not to transfer any of metlife, inc. securities received pursuant to the terms of the stock purchase agreement, at any time up to the date 270 days after the closing of the acquisition, without the consent of metlife, inc. however, from and after such date, alico holdings will be able to transfer up to half of such equity securities, and from and after the first anniversary of the closing of the acquisition, alico holdings will be able to transfer all of such securities, subject in each case to certain limited volume and timing restrictions set forth in the investor rights agreement. moreover, alico holdings will agree to use commercially reasonable efforts to transfer, and it will cause its affiliates to so transfer, all of metlife, inc. securities received in connection with the acquisition prior to the later of (i) the fifth anniversary of the closing of the acquisition, and (ii) the first anniversary of the third stock purchase date under the stock purchase contracts. subject to certain conditions, we have agreed to register the resale of metlife, inc. equity and other securities to be issued to alico holdings under the securities act. the sale or transfer of a substantial number of these securities within a short period of time could cause metlife, inc. stock price to decrease, make it more difficult for us to raise funds through future offerings of metlife, inc. common stock or acquire other businesses using metlife, inc. common stock as consideration. if metlife, inc. stockholders do not vote to approve the conversion of the convertible preferred stock into common stock, metlife, inc. will be required to pay approximately $300 million to alico holdings alico holdings received shares of the convertible preferred stock upon completion of the acquisition. each share of convertible preferred stock will convert into 10 shares of metlife, inc. common stock (subject to anti-dilution adjustments) if conversion is approved by metlife, inc. common stockholders. if we fail to obtain such approval prior to the first anniversary of the closing of the acquisition, november 1, 2011, metlife, inc. will be required to pay approximately $300 million to alico holdings, assuming no purchase price adjustments, and, upon request, register the convertible preferred stock for sale by alico holdings in a public offering and list the convertible preferred stock on the nyse. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our profitability we are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar resulting from our holdings of non-u.s. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries and net income from foreign operations and issuance of non-u.s. dollar denominated instruments, including guaranteed interest contracts and funding agreements. these risks relate to potential decreases in estimated fair value and income resulting from a strengthening or weakening in foreign exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar. in general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the u.s. dollar will adversely affect the estimated fair value of our non-u.s. dollar denominated investments, our investments in foreign subsidiaries, and our net income from foreign operations. although we use foreign currency swaps and forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk, we cannot provide assurance that these methods will be effective or that our counterparties will perform their obligations. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. from time to time, various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies. our exposure to foreign exchange rate risk is exacerbated by our investments in certain emerging markets. historically, we have matched substantially all of our foreign currency liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with investments denominated in their respective foreign currency, which limits the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuation on local operating results; however, fluctuations in such rates affect the translation of these results into our u.s. dollar basis consolidated financial statements. although we take certain actions to address this risk, foreign 45 table of contents currency exchange rate fluctuation could materially adversely affect our reported results due to unhedged positions or the failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the acquisition has increased our exposure to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar and increased our exposure to emerging markets. fluctuations in the yen/ u.s. dollar exchange rate can have a significant effect on our reported financial position and results of operations because alico has substantial operations in japan and a significant portion of its premiums and investment income are received in yen. claims and expenses are also paid in yen and alico primarily purchases yen-denominated assets to support yen-denominated policy liabilities. these and other yen-denominated financial statement items are, however, translated into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. accordingly, fluctuations in the yen/u.s. dollar exchange rate can have a significant effect on our reported financial position and results of operations. due to our significant international operations, during periods when any foreign currency in which we derive our revenues (such as the japanese yen) weakens, translating amounts expressed in that currency into u.s. dollars causes fewer u.s. dollars to be reported. when the relevant foreign currency strengthens, translating such currency into u.s. dollars causes more u.s. dollars to be reported. between september 30, 2010 and december 31, 2010, the japanese yen has strengthened against the u.s. dollar, which fluctuated from a low point of 80.40 to the u.s. dollar on october 29, 2010 to a high point of 84.26 to the u.s. dollar on november 29, 2010, which has been somewhat offset by the weakening of the euro, which fluctuated from a high point of 0.7702 euro to the u.s. dollar on november 30, 2010, to 0.7039 euro to the u.s. dollar on november 4, 2010. any unrealized foreign currency translation adjustments are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). the weakening of a foreign currency relative to the u.s. dollar will generally adversely affect the value of investments in u.s. dollar terms and reduce the level of reserves denominated in that currency. our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks that we do not face in our domestic operations. we face the risk of discriminatory regulation, nationalization or expropriation of assets, price controls and exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold into u.s. dollars or other currencies. some of our foreign insurance operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where these risks are heightened. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in addition, we rely on local sales forces in these countries and may encounter labor problems resulting from workers associations and trade unions in some countries. in several countries, including japan, china and india, we operate with local business partners with the resulting risk of managing partner relationships to the business objectives. if our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training the sales force in that country. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations executive summary and note 2 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. we are expanding our international operations in certain markets where we operate and in selected new markets. this may require considerable management time, as well as start-up expenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. operations in new foreign markets may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in existing markets may be affected by local economic and market conditions. therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not achieve expected operating margins and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. in addition, in recent years, the operating environment in argentina has been very challenging. in argentina, we were formerly principally engaged in the pension business. in december 2008, the argentine government nationalized private pensions and seized the pension funds investments, eliminating the private pensions business in argentina. as a result, we have experienced and will continue to experience reductions in the operation revenues and cash flows. the argentine government now controls all assets which previously were managed by our 46 table of contents argentine pension operations. further governmental or legal actions related to our operations in argentina could negatively impact our operations in argentina and result in future losses. we have market presence in over 60 different countries and increased exposure to risks posed by local and regional economic conditions. europe has recently experienced a deep recession and countries such as italy, spain, portugal and, in particular, greece and ireland, have been particularly affected by the recession, resulting in increased national debts and depressed economic activity. we have significant operations and investments in these countries which could be adversely affected by economic developments such as higher taxes, growing inflation, decreasing government spending, rising unemployment and currency instability. in addition to fluctuations in the yen/u.s. dollar exchange rate discussed above, we face increased exposure to the japanese markets as a result of alico considerable presence there. deterioration in japan economic recovery could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we also have operations in the middle east where the legal and political systems and regulatory frameworks are subject to instability and disruptions. lack of legal certainty and stability in the region exposes our operations to increased risk of disruption and to adverse or unpredictable actions by regulators and may make it more difficult for us to enforce our contracts, which may negatively impact our business in this region. see also changes in market interest rates may significantly affect our profitability regarding the impact of low interest rates on our taiwanese operations. as a holding company, metlife, inc. depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to transfer funds to it to meet its obligations and pay dividends metlife, inc. is a holding company for its insurance and financial subsidiaries and does not have any significant operations of its own. dividends from its subsidiaries and permitted payments to it under its tax sharing arrangements with its subsidiaries are its principal sources of cash to meet its obligations and to pay preferred and common stock dividends. if the cash metlife, inc. receives from its subsidiaries is insufficient for it to fund its debt service and other holding company obligations, metlife, inc. may be required to raise cash through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of additional equity or the sale of assets. the payment of dividends and other distributions to metlife, inc. by its insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. in general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits require insurance regulatory approval. in addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of dividends or other payments by its insurance subsidiaries to metlife, inc. if they determine that the payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. the payment of dividends and other distributions by insurance companies is also influenced by business conditions and rating agency considerations. see business u.s. regulation insurance regulation and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the holding company liquidity and capital sources dividends from subsidiaries. the ability of metlife bank to pay dividends is also subject to regulation by the occ. any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or advances by our foreign subsidiaries and branches to metlife, inc. could be subject to taxation or other restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdiction in which such foreign subsidiaries operate. see business international regulation and our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability. a downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could result in a loss of business and materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations financial strength ratings, which various nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ( nrsro ) publish as indicators of an insurance company ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations, are important to maintaining public confidence in our products, our ability to market our products and our competitive position. 47 table of contents downgrades in our financial strength ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including: reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other investment products; adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and independent sales intermediaries; materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders; requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and services to remain competitive; and adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices or at all. in addition to the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries, various nrsros also publish credit ratings for metlife, inc. and several of its subsidiaries. credit ratings are indicators of a debt issuer ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner and are important factors in our overall funding profile and ability to access certain types of liquidity. downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including adversely limiting our access to capital markets, potentially increasing the cost of debt, and requiring us to post collateral. for example, with respect to derivative transactions with credit ratings downgrade triggers, a one-notch downgrade would have increased our derivative collateral requirements by $99 million at december 31, 2010. also, $375 million of liabilities associated with funding agreements and other capital market products were subject to credit ratings downgrade triggers that permit early termination subject to a notice period of 90 days. in view of the difficulties experienced during 2008 and 2009 by many financial institutions, including our competitors in the insurance industry, we believe it is possible that the nrsros will continue to heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to such institutions, will continue to increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, will continue to request additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the nrsro models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. rating agencies use an outlook statement of positive, stable, negative or developing to indicate a medium- or long-term trend in credit fundamentals which, if continued, may lead to a ratings change. a rating may have a stable outlook to indicate that the rating is not expected to change; however, a stable rating does not preclude a rating agency from changing a rating at any time, without notice. certain rating agencies assign rating modifiers such as creditwatch or under review to indicate their opinion regarding the potential direction of a rating. these ratings modifiers are generally assigned in connection with certain events such as potential mergers and acquisitions, or material changes in a company results, in order for the rating agencies to perform their analyses to fully determine the rating implications of the event. certain rating agencies have recently implemented rating actions, including downgrades, outlook changes and modifiers, for metlife, inc. and certain of its subsidiaries insurer financial strength and credit ratings. based on the announcement in february 2010 that metlife was in discussions to acquire alico, in february 2010, p and a.m. best placed the ratings of metlife, inc. and its subsidiaries on creditwatch with negative implications and under review with negative implications, respectively. also in connection with the announcement, in march 2010, moody changed the ratings outlook of metlife, inc. and its subsidiaries from stable to negative outlook. upon completion of the public financing transactions related to the acquisition, in august 2010, p affirmed the ratings of metlife, inc. and subsidiaries with a negative outlook, and removed them from creditwatch. on november 1, 2010, upon closing of the acquisition, p changed the rating outlook of alico to positive from negative and affirmed its financial strength rating; the ratings of metlife, inc. and its other subsidiaries were unaffected by this ratings action. also on november 1, 2010, fitch ratings upgraded by one notch (and changed the rating outlook from rating watch positive to stable ) the financial strength rating of american life and affirmed all existing ratings for metlife, inc. and its other subsidiaries. on november 4, 2010, a.m. best upgraded by one notch the financial strength rating of american life and changed the rating outlook from under review with positive implications to negative. a.m. best also changed the outlook for metlife, inc. and certain of its other subsidiaries to negative from under review with negative implications. effective as of january in 2011, metlife withdrew the american life financial strength ratings by a.m. best and fitch ratings as once it became a subsidiary of metlife it was not deemed necessary to maintain stand-alone ratings. 48 table of contents on july 1, 2010, moody published revised guidance called revisions to moody hybrid tool kit (the guidance ) for assigning equity credit to so-called hybrid securities, i.e., securities with both debt and equity characteristics ( hybrids ). moody evaluates hybrids using certain specified criteria and then places each such security into a basket, with a specific percentage of debt and equity being associated with each basket, which is then used to adjust full sets of financial statements for purposes of, among other things, calculating the issuing company financial leverage. under the guidance, hybrids are one element that moody considers within the context of an issuer overall credit profile. as of december 31, 2010, we have approximately $11.1 billion of hybrids outstanding, which includes approximately $6.2 billion of debt securities and $4.9 billion of equity securities. application of the guidance has resulted in moody significantly reducing the amount of equity credit it assigns to these securities, including the common equity units issued to alico holdings in connection with the acquisition. we do not expect at this time, as a result of the guidance, that a reduction in moody equity treatment of our hybrids, including the common equity units, would result in any material negative impact on metlife, inc. credit rating or the financial strength ratings of its insurance company subsidiaries. however, if we decided to increase our adjusted capital as a result of the application of the guidance, we may seek to (i) issue additional common equity or higher equity content hybrids satisfying the guidance revised rating criteria, and/or (ii) redeem, repurchase or restructure existing hybrids. any sale of additional common equity would have a dilutive effect on our common stockholders. we cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. as with other companies in the financial services industry, our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without any notice by any nrsro. an inability to access our credit facilities could result in a reduction in our liquidity and lead to downgrades in our credit and financial strength ratings in october 2010, we entered into two senior unsecured credit facilities: a three-year $3 billion facility and a 364-day $1 billion facility. we also have other facilities which we enter into in the ordinary course of business. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital sources credit and committed facilities and notes 11 and 24 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. we rely on our credit facilities as a potential source of liquidity. the availability of these facilities could be critical to our credit and financial strength ratings and our ability to meet our obligations as they come due in a market when alternative sources of credit are tight. the credit facilities contain certain administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants. we must comply with covenants under our credit facilities, including a requirement to maintain a specified minimum consolidated net worth. our right to make borrowings under these facilities is subject to the fulfillment of certain important conditions, including our compliance with all covenants, and our ability to borrow under these facilities is also subject to the continued willingness and ability of the lenders that are parties to the facilities to provide funds. our failure to comply with the covenants in the credit facilities or fulfill the conditions to borrowings, or the failure of lenders to fund their lending commitments (whether due to insolvency, illiquidity or other reasons) in the amounts provided for under the terms of the facilities, would restrict our ability to access these credit facilities when needed and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. defaults, downgrades or other events impairing the carrying value of our fixed maturity or equity securities portfolio may reduce our earnings we are subject to the risk that the issuers, or guarantors, of fixed maturity securities we own may default on principal and interest payments they owe us. we are also subject to the risk that the underlying collateral within loan-backed securities, including mortgage-backed securities, may default on principal and interest payments causing an adverse change in cash flows. fixed maturity securities represent a significant portion of our investment portfolio. the occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening risk spreads, or other events that adversely affect the issuers, guarantors or underlying collateral of these securities could cause the estimated fair value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio and our earnings to decline and the default rate of the 49 table of contents fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio to increase. a ratings downgrade affecting issuers or guarantors of particular securities, or similar trends that could worsen the credit quality of issuers, such as the corporate issuers of securities in our investment portfolio, could also have a similar effect. with economic uncertainty, credit quality of issuers or guarantors could be adversely affected. similarly, a ratings downgrade affecting a security we hold could indicate the credit quality of that security has deteriorated and could increase the capital we must hold to support that security to maintain our rbc levels. any event reducing the estimated fair value of these securities other than on a temporary basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. levels of writedowns or impairments are impacted by our assessment of intent to sell, or whether it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell, fixed maturity securities and the intent and ability to hold equity securities which have declined in value until recovery. if we determine to reposition or realign portions of the portfolio so as not to hold certain equity securities, or intend to sell or determine that it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell, certain fixed maturity securities in an unrealized loss position prior to recovery, then we will incur an other-than-temporary impairment charge in the period that the decision was made not to hold the equity security to recovery, or to sell, or the determination was made it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the fixed maturity security. our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business management of risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events. we have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in the future. nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not be comprehensive. many of our methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. as a result, these methods may not fully predict future exposures, which can be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate. other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. this information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses as part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various business segments. see business reinsurance activity. while reinsurance agreements generally bind the reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured at generally fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new business. in certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for business already reinsured may also increase. any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to those policies we issue. if the counterparties to our reinsurance or indemnification arrangements or to the derivative instruments we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations we use reinsurance, indemnification and derivative instruments to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. in general, reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers and indemnitors. we cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that indemnitors will honor their obligations now or in the future or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. a reinsurer or indemnitor insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of reinsurance agreements or indemnity agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 50 table of contents in addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various business risks. we enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit default and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments. if our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative instruments, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. this is a more pronounced risk to us in view of the stresses suffered by financial institutions over the past few years. such failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. differences between actual claims experience and underwriting and reserving assumptions may adversely affect our financial results our earnings significantly depend upon the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in setting prices for our products and establishing liabilities for future policy benefits and claims. our liabilities for future policy benefits and claims are established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims. for life insurance and annuity products, we calculate these liabilities based on many assumptions and estimates, including estimated premiums to be received over the assumed life of the policy, the timing of the event covered by the insurance policy, the amount of benefits or claims to be paid and the investment returns on the investments we make with the premiums we receive. we establish liabilities for property and casualty claims and benefits based on assumptions and estimates of damages and liabilities incurred. to the extent that actual claims experience is less favorable than the underlying assumptions we used in establishing such liabilities, we could be required to increase our liabilities. due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of liabilities for future policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely the amounts which we will ultimately pay to settle our liabilities. such amounts may vary from the estimated amounts, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future. we evaluate our liabilities periodically based on accounting requirements, which change from time to time, the assumptions used to establish the liabilities, as well as our actual experience. we charge or credit changes in our liabilities to expenses in the period the liabilities are established or re-estimated. if the liabilities originally established for future benefit payments prove inadequate, we must increase them. such increases could affect earnings negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. catastrophes may adversely impact liabilities for policyholder claims and reinsurance availability our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that causes a large number of deaths. significant influenza pandemics have occurred three times in the last century, but neither the likelihood, timing, nor the severity of a future pandemic can be predicted. a significant pandemic could have a major impact on the global economy or the economies of particular countries or regions, including travel, trade, tourism, the health system, food supply, consumption, overall economic output and, eventually, on the financial markets. in addition, a pandemic that affected our employees or the employees of our distributors or of other companies with which we do business could disrupt our business operations. the effectiveness of external parties, including governmental and non-governmental organizations, in combating the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have a material impact on the losses experienced by us. in our group insurance operations, a localized event that affects the workplace of one or more of our group insurance customers could cause a significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims. these events could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any period and, depending on their severity, could also materially and adversely affect our financial condition. our auto home business has experienced, and will likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses that may have a material adverse impact on the business, results of operations and financial condition of the auto home segment. although auto home makes every effort to manage our exposure to catastrophic risks through volatility management and reinsurance programs, these efforts do not eliminate all risk. catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards), fires and man-made events such as terrorist attacks. historically, substantially all of our catastrophe-related claims have related to homeowners coverages. 51 table of contents however, catastrophes may also affect other auto home coverages. due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence, timing and severity of catastrophes. in addition, changing climate conditions, primarily rising global temperatures, may be increasing, or may in the future increase, the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes such as hurricanes. hurricanes and earthquakes are of particular note for our homeowners coverages. areas of major hurricane exposure include coastal sections of the northeastern u.s. (including lower new york, connecticut, rhode island and massachusetts), the gulf coast (including alabama, mississippi, louisiana and texas) and florida. we also have some earthquake exposure, primarily along the new madrid fault line in the central u.s. and in the pacific northwest. the extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however, hurricanes, earthquakes and man-made catastrophes may produce significant damage or loss of life in larger areas, especially those that are heavily populated. claims resulting from natural or man-made catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition. also, catastrophic events could harm the financial condition of our reinsurers and thereby increase the probability of default on reinsurance recoveries. our ability to write new business could also be affected. it is possible that increases in the value, caused by the effects of inflation or other factors, and geographic concentration of insured property, could increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. most of the jurisdictions in which our insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business require life and property and casualty insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. these associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is engaged. in addition, certain states have government owned or controlled organizations providing life and property and casualty insurance to their citizens. the activities of such organizations could also place additional stress on the adequacy of guaranty fund assessments. many of these organizations also have the power to levy assessments similar to those of the guaranty associations described above. some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. see business u.s. regulation insurance regulation guaranty associations and similar arrangements and business international regulation. while in the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied against metlife, inc. insurance subsidiaries have not been material, it is possible that a large catastrophic event could render such guaranty funds inadequate and we may be called upon to contribute additional amounts, which may have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations in a particular period. we have established liabilities for guaranty fund assessments that we consider adequate for assessments with respect to insurers that are currently subject to insolvency proceedings, but additional liabilities may be necessary. see note 16 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we establish liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. we cannot be certain that the liabilities we have established will be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities. from time to time, states have passed legislation that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage risk, such as legislation restricting an insurer ability to withdraw from catastrophe-prone areas. while we attempt to limit our exposure to acceptable levels, subject to restrictions imposed by insurance regulatory authorities, a catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our ability to manage this risk and the profitability of our property and casualty and life insurance businesses depends in part on our ability to obtain catastrophe reinsurance, which may not be available at commercially acceptable rates in the future. see reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses. 52 table of contents our statutory reserve financings may be subject to cost increases and new financings may be subject to limited market capacity to support statutory reserves for several products, including, but not limited to, our level premium term life and universal life with secondary guarantees and mlic closed block, we currently utilize capital markets solutions for financing a portion of our statutory reserve requirements. while we have financing facilities in place for our previously written business and have remaining capacity in existing facilities to support writings through the end of 2010 or later, certain of these facilities are subject to cost increases upon the occurrence of specified ratings downgrades of metlife or are subject to periodic repricing. any resulting cost increases could negatively impact our financial results. future capacity for these statutory reserve funding structures in the marketplace is not guaranteed. if capacity becomes unavailable for a prolonged period of time, hindering our ability to obtain funding for these new structures, our ability to write additional business in a cost effective manner may be impacted. competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability our segments are subject to intense competition. we believe that this competition is based on a number of factors, including service, product features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, e-business capabilities and name recognition. we compete with a large number of other insurers, as well as non-insurance financial services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset managers, for individual consumers, employers and other group customers and agents and other distributors of insurance and investment products. some of these companies offer a broader array of products, have more competitive pricing or more attractive features in their products or, with respect to other insurers, have higher claims paying ability ratings. some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete. national banks, which may sell annuity products of life insurers in some circumstances, also have pre-existing customer bases for financial services products. many of our group insurance products are underwritten annually, and, accordingly, there is a risk that group purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors rather than renewing coverage with us. the effect of competition may, as a result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell products in the future. in addition, the investment management and securities brokerage businesses have relatively few barriers to entry and continually attract new entrants. see business competition. finally, the new requirements imposed on the financial industry by dodd-frank could similarly have differential effects. see various aspects of dodd-frank could impact our business operations, capital requirements and profitability and limit our growth. industry trends could adversely affect the profitability of our businesses our segments continue to be influenced by a variety of trends that affect the insurance industry, including competition with respect to product features, price, distribution capability, customer service and information technology. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends. the impact on our business and on the life insurance industry generally of the volatility and instability of the financial markets is difficult to predict, and our business plans, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted or affected in other unexpected ways. in addition, the life insurance industry is subject to state regulation, and, as complex products are introduced, regulators may refine capital requirements and introduce new reserving standards. dodd-frank, basel iii and the market environment in general may also lead to changes in regulation that may benefit or disadvantage us relative to some of our competitors. see business competition, our insurance, brokerage and banking businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth and competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability. 53 table of contents consolidation of distributors of insurance products may adversely affect the insurance industry and the profitability of our business the insurance industry distributes many of its individual products through other financial institutions such as banks and broker-dealers. an increase in bank and broker-dealer consolidation activity may negatively impact the industry sales, and such consolidation could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market insurance products to our current customer base or to expand our customer base. consolidation of distributors and/or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us. our valuation of fixed maturity, equity and trading and other securities and short-term investments may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition fixed maturity, equity, and trading and other securities and short-term investments which are reported at estimated fair value on the consolidated balance sheets represent the majority of our total cash and investments. we have categorized these securities into a three-level hierarchy, based on the priority of the inputs to the respective valuation technique. the fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (level 3). an asset or liability classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of significant input to its valuation. the input levels are as follows: level 1 unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. we define active markets based on average trading volume for equity securities. the size of the bid/ask spread is used as an indicator of market activity for fixed maturity securities. level 2 quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly. level 2 inputs include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities other than quoted prices in level 1; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other significant inputs that are observable or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. level 3 unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and are significant to the estimated fair value of the assets or liabilities. unobservable inputs reflect the reporting entity own assumptions about the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments whose values are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of the estimated fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation. at december 31, 2010, 7.0%, 85.8% and 7.2% of these securities represented level 1, level 2 and level 3, respectively. the level 1 securities primarily consist of certain u.s. treasury, agency and government guaranteed fixed maturity securities; certain foreign government fixed maturity securities; exchange-traded common stock; certain trading securities; certain fair value option securities and certain short-term investments. the level 2 assets include fixed maturity and equity securities priced principally through independent pricing services using observable inputs. these fixed maturity securities include most u.s. treasury, agency and government guaranteed securities, as well as the majority of u.s. and foreign corporate securities, rmbs, cmbs, state and political subdivision securities, foreign government securities, and abs. equity securities classified as level 2 primarily consist of non-redeemable preferred securities and certain equity securities where market quotes are available but are not considered actively traded and are priced by independent pricing services. we review the valuation methodologies used by the independent pricing services on an ongoing basis and ensure that any changes to valuation methodologies are justified. level 3 assets include fixed maturity securities priced principally through independent non-binding broker quotations or market standard valuation methodologies using inputs that are not 54 table of contents market observable or cannot be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. level 3 consists of less liquid fixed maturity securities with very limited trading activity or where less price transparency exists around the inputs to the valuation methodologies including: u.s. and foreign corporate securities including below investment grade private placements; rmbs; cmbs; and abs including all of those supported by sub-prime mortgage loans. equity securities classified as level 3 securities consist principally of nonredeemable preferred stock and common stock of companies that are privately held or companies for which there has been very limited trading activity or where less price transparency exists around the inputs to the valuation. prices provided by independent pricing services and independent non-binding broker quotations can vary widely even for the same security. the determination of estimated fair values by management in the absence of quoted market prices is based on: (i) valuation methodologies; (ii) securities we deem to be comparable; and (iii) assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances. the fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on available market information and judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. factors considered in estimating fair value include: coupon rate, maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer, and quoted market prices of comparable securities. the use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. during periods of market disruption including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities, for example sub-prime mortgage-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities where the underlying loans are alt-a and cmbs, if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. in times of financial market disruption, certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data may become illiquid. in such cases, more securities may fall to level 3 and thus require more subjectivity and management judgment. as such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation, as well as valuation methods which are more sophisticated or require greater estimation thereby resulting in estimated fair values which may be greater or less than the amount at which the investments may be ultimately sold. further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in estimated fair value could vary significantly. decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if our business does not perform well, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our goodwill or other long-lived assets or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition goodwill represents the excess of the amounts we paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the estimated fair value of their net assets at the date of acquisition. as of december 31, 2010, our goodwill was $11,781, of which $6,959 of goodwill was established in connection with the acquisition of alico. we test goodwill at least annually for impairment. impairment testing is performed based upon estimates of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to which the goodwill relates. the reporting unit is the operating segment or a business one level below that operating segment if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at that level. the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the business. the performance of our businesses may be adversely impacted by prolonged market declines. if it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, we must write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. such writedowns could have an adverse effect on our results of operation or financial position. for example, our goodwill has increased substantially as a result of the acquisition. market factors, the failure of alico to perform well, or issues relating to the integration of alico could result in the reporting units containing parts of alico having fair values lower than their respective carrying values, which would result in a writedown of goodwill and, consequently, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates goodwill. long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate, also require impairment testing to determine whether changes in circumstances indicate that metlife will be unable to recover the carrying amount of the asset group 55 table of contents through future operations of that asset group or market conditions that will impact the estimated fair value of those assets. such writedowns could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. factors in management determination include the performance of the business including the ability to generate future taxable income. if based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. if our business does not perform well or if actual experience versus estimates used in valuing and amortizing dac, deferred sales inducements ( dsi ) and voba vary significantly, we may be required to accelerate the amortization and/or impair the dac, dsi and voba which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition we incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal business. those costs that vary with and are primarily related to the production of new and renewal business are deferred and referred to as dac. bonus amounts credited to certain policyholders, either immediately upon receiving a deposit or as excess interest credits for a period of time, are referred to as dsi. the recovery of dac and dsi is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. the amount of future profit or margin is dependent principally on investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest crediting rates, dividends paid to policyholders, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties and certain economic variables, such as inflation. of these factors, we anticipate that investment returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of such costs. the aforementioned factors enter into management estimates of gross profits or margins, which generally are used to amortize such costs. if the estimates of gross profits or margins were overstated, then the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to income. significant or sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of the dac and dsi related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. voba is an intangible asset that represents the excess of book value over the estimated fair value of acquired insurance, annuity, and investment-type contracts in-force at the acquisition date. the estimated fair value of the acquired liabilities is based on actuarially determined projections, by each block of business, of future policy and contract charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account performance, surrenders, operating expenses, investment returns, nonperformance risk adjustment and other factors. actual experience on the purchased business may vary from these projections. revisions to estimates result in changes to the amounts expensed in the reporting period in which the revisions are made and could result in a charge to income. also, as voba is amortized similarly to dac and dsi, an acceleration of the amortization of voba would occur if the estimates of gross profits or margins were overstated. accordingly, the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period in which the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to net income. significant or sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of the voba related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates deferred policy acquisition costs and value of business acquired for further consideration of dac and voba. changes in accounting standards issued by the financial accounting standards board or other standard- setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements our financial statements are subject to the application of gaap, which is periodically revised and/or expanded. accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the financial accounting standards board. market conditions have prompted accounting standard setters to expose new guidance which further interprets or seeks to revise accounting 56 table of contents pronouncements related to financial instruments, structures or transactions, as well as to issue new standards expanding disclosures. the impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in this annual and quarterly reports on form 10-k and form 10-q. an assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and, therefore, the effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. it is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. changes in our discount rate, expected rate of return and expected compensation increase assumptions for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability we determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on our best estimates of future plan experience. these assumptions are reviewed regularly and include discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets and expected increases in compensation levels and expected medical inflation. changes in these assumptions may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. see note 17 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for details on how changes in these assumptions would affect plan costs. guarantees within certain of our products that protect policyholders against significant downturns in equity markets may decrease our earnings, increase the volatility of our results if hedging or risk management strategies prove ineffective, result in higher hedging costs and expose us to increased counterparty risk certain of our variable annuity products include guaranteed benefits. these include guaranteed death benefits, guaranteed withdrawal benefits, lifetime withdrawal guarantees, guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits, and guaranteed minimum income benefits. periods of significant and sustained downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, or reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of the future policy benefit or policyholder account balance liabilities associated with such products, resulting in a reduction to net income. we use reinsurance in combination with derivative instruments to mitigate the liability exposure and the volatility of net income associated with these liabilities, and while we believe that these and other actions have mitigated the risks related to these benefits, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay. in addition, we are subject to the risk that hedging and other management procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed. these, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on net income, financial condition or liquidity. we are also subject to the risk that the cost of hedging these guaranteed minimum benefits increases as implied volatilities increase and/or interest rates decrease, resulting in a reduction to net income. the valuation of certain of the foregoing liabilities (carried at fair value) includes an adjustment for nonperformance risk that reflects the credit standing of the issuing entity. this adjustment, which is not hedged, is based in part on publicly available information regarding credit spreads related to the holding company debt, including credit default swaps. in periods of extreme market volatility, movements in these credit spreads can have a significant impact on net income. guarantees within certain of our life and annuity products may increase our exposure to foreign exchange risk, and decrease our earnings certain of our life and annuity products are exposed to foreign exchange risk. payments under these contracts may be required to be made in different currencies, depending on the circumstances. therefore, payments may be required in a different currency than the currency upon which the liability valuation is based. if the currency upon which expected future payments are made strengthens relative to the currency upon which the liability valuation is based, the liability valuation may increase, resulting in a reduction of net income. 57 table of contents we may need to fund deficiencies in our closed block; assets allocated to the closed block benefit only the holders of closed block policies mlic plan of reorganization, as amended (the plan ), required that we establish and operate an accounting mechanism, known as a closed block, to ensure that the reasonable dividend expectations of policyholders who own certain individual insurance policies of mlic are met. see note 10 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. we allocated assets to the closed block in an amount that will produce cash flows which, together with anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block, are reasonably expected to be sufficient to support obligations and liabilities relating to these policies, including, but not limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain expenses and tax, and to provide for the continuation of the policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999, if the experience underlying such scales continues, and for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience changes. we cannot provide assurance that the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block will be sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies. if they are not sufficient, we must fund the shortfall. even if they are sufficient, we may choose, for competitive reasons, to support policyholder dividend payments with our general account funds. the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies in the closed block will benefit only the holders of those policies. in addition, to the extent that these amounts are greater than the amounts estimated at the time the closed block was funded, dividends payable in respect of the policies included in the closed block may be greater than they would be in the absence of a closed block. any excess earnings will be available for distribution over time only to closed block policyholders. litigation and regulatory investigations are increasingly common in our businesses and may result in significant financial losses and/or harm to our reputation we face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. our pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings specific to us and others generally applicable to business practices in the industries in which we operate. in connection with our insurance operations, plaintiffs lawyers may bring or are bringing class actions and individual suits alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product design, disclosure, administration, denial or delay of benefits and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers. plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, and the damages claimed and the amount of any probable and estimable liability, if any, may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. see note 16 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular points in time may normally be difficult to ascertain. uncertainties can include how fact finders will evaluate documentary evidence and the credibility and effectiveness of witness testimony, and how trial and appellate courts will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal. disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the relevant evidence and applicable law. on a quarterly and annual basis, we review relevant information with respect to litigation and contingencies to be reflected in our consolidated financial statements. the review includes senior legal and financial personnel. estimates of possible losses or ranges of loss for particular matters cannot in the ordinary course be made with a reasonable degree of certainty. liabilities are established when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. liabilities have been established for a number of matters noted in note 16 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. it is possible that some of the matters could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures or establish accruals in amounts that could not be estimated at december 31, 2010. 58 table of contents mlic and its affiliates are currently defendants in numerous lawsuits including class actions and individual suits, alleging improper marketing or sales of individual life insurance policies, annuities, mutual funds or other products. in addition, mlic is a defendant in a large number of lawsuits seeking compensatory and punitive damages for personal injuries allegedly caused by exposure to asbestos or asbestos-containing products. these lawsuits principally have focused on allegations with respect to certain research, publication and other activities of one or more of mlic employees during the period from the 1920 through approximately the 1950 and have alleged that mlic learned or should have learned of certain health risks posed by asbestos and, among other things, improperly publicized or failed to disclose those health risks. additional litigation relating to these matters may be commenced in the future. the ability of mlic to estimate its ultimate asbestos exposure is subject to considerable uncertainty, and the conditions impacting its liability can be dynamic and subject to change. the availability of reliable data is limited and it is difficult to predict with any certainty the numerous variables that can affect liability estimates, including the number of future claims, the cost to resolve claims, the disease mix and severity of disease in pending and future claims, the impact of the number of new claims filed in a particular jurisdiction and variations in the law in the jurisdictions in which claims are filed, the possible impact of tort reform efforts, the willingness of courts to allow plaintiffs to pursue claims against mlic when exposure took place after the dangers of asbestos exposure were well known, and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts. the number of asbestos cases that may be brought or the aggregate amount of any liability that mlic may incur, and the total amount paid in settlements in any given year are uncertain and may vary significantly from year to year. accordingly, it is reasonably possible that our total exposure to asbestos claims may be materially greater than the liability recorded by us in our consolidated financial statements and that future charges to income may be necessary. the potential future charges could be material in the particular quarterly or annual periods in which they are recorded. we are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as information requests, subpoenas and books and record examinations, from state and federal regulators and other authorities. a substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. moreover, even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation, regulatory action or investigation, we could suffer significant reputational harm, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our ability to attract new customers, retain our current customers and recruit and retain employees. regulatory inquiries and litigation may cause volatility in the price of stocks of companies in our industry. the new york attorney general announced on july 29, 2010 that his office had launched a major fraud investigation into the life insurance industry for practices related to the use of retained asset accounts as a settlement option for death benefits and that subpoenas requesting comprehensive data related to retained asset accounts have been served on metlife and other insurance carriers. we received the subpoena on july 30, 2010. we also have received requests for documents and information from u.s. congressional committees and members as well as various state regulatory bodies, including the new york insurance department. it is possible that other state and federal regulators or legislative bodies may pursue similar investigations or make related inquiries. we cannot predict what effect any such investigations might have on our earnings or the availability of our retained asset account known as the total control account ( tca ), but we believe that our financial statements taken as a whole would not be materially affected. we believe that any allegations that information about the tca is not adequately disclosed or that the accounts are fraudulent or violate state or federal laws are without merit. we cannot give assurance that current claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and other proceedings against us will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. it is also possible that related or unrelated claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and proceedings may be commenced in the future, and we could become subject to further investigations and have lawsuits filed or enforcement actions initiated against us. in addition, increased regulatory 59 table of contents scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings could result in new legal actions and precedents and industry-wide regulations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims we rely on a combination of contractual rights with third parties and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. although we endeavor to protect our rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. we may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. this would represent a diversion of resources that may be significant and our efforts may not prove successful. the inability to secure or protect our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. we may be subject to claims by third parties for (i) patent, trademark or copyright infringement, (ii) breach of copyright, trademark or license usage rights, or (iii) misappropriation of trade secrets. any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability for damages. if we were found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party patent or other intellectual property right, we could in some circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or from utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties or implement a costly work around. any of these scenarios could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. new and impending compensation and corporate governance regulations could hinder or prevent us from attracting and retaining management and other employees with the talent and experience to manage and conduct our business effectively the compensation and corporate governance practices of financial institutions have become and will continue to be subject to increasing regulation and scrutiny. dodd-frank includes new requirements that will affect our corporate governance and compensation practices, including some that have resulted in (or are likely to lead to) shareholders having the limited right to use metlife, inc. proxy statement to solicit proxies to vote for their own candidates for director, impose additional requirements for membership on board committees, requirements for additional shareholder votes on compensation matters, requirements for policies to recover compensation previously paid to certain executives under certain circumstances, elimination of broker discretionary voting on compensation matters, requirements for additional performance and compensation disclosure, and other requirements. see various aspects of dodd-frank could impact our business operations, capital requirements and profitability and limit our growth. in addition, the federal reserve board, the fdic and other u.s. bank regulators have released guidelines on incentive compensation that may apply to or impact metlife, inc. as a bank holding company. these requirements and restrictions, and others congress or regulators may propose or implement, could hinder or prevent us from attracting and retaining management and other employees with the talent and experience to manage and conduct our business effectively. although aig has received assurances from the troubled asset relief program special master for executive compensation that neither we nor alico will be subject to compensation related requirements and restrictions under programs established in whole or in part under eesa, there can be no assurance that the acquisition will not lead to greater public or governmental scrutiny, regulation, or restrictions on our compensation practices as a result of the acquisition and expansion into new markets outside the u.s., whether in connection with aig having received u.s. government funding or as a result of other factors. legislative and regulatory activity in health care and other employee benefits could increase the costs or administrative burdens of providing benefits to our employees or hinder or prevent us from attracting and retaining employees, or affect our profitability as a provider of life insurance, annuities, and non-medical health insurance benefit products the patient protection and affordable care act, signed into law on march 23, 2010, and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010, signed into law on march 30, 2010 (together, the health care act ), may 60 table of contents lead to fundamental changes in the way that employers, including us, provide health care benefits, other benefits, and other forms of compensation to their employees and former employees. among other changes, and subject to various effective dates, the health care act generally restricts certain limits on benefits, mandates coverage for certain kinds of care, extends the required coverage of dependent children through age 26, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions or limitations, requires cost reporting and, in some cases, requires premium rebates to participants under certain circumstances, limits coverage waiting periods, establishes several penalties on employers who fail to offer sufficient coverage to their full-time employees, and requires employers under certain circumstances to provide employees with vouchers to purchase their own health care coverage. the health care act also provides for increased taxation of high cost coverage, restricts the tax deductibility of certain compensation paid by health insurers, reduces the tax deductibility of retiree health care costs to the extent of any retiree prescription drug benefit subsidy provided to the employer by the federal government, increases medicare taxes on certain high earners, and establishes health insurance exchanges for individual purchases of health insurance. the impact of the health care act on us as an employer and on the benefit plans we sponsor for employees or retirees and their dependents, whether those benefits remain competitive or effective in meeting their business objectives, and our costs to provide such benefits and our tax liabilities in connection with benefits or compensation, cannot be predicted. furthermore, we cannot predict the impact of choices that will be made by various regulators, including the u.s. treasury, the irs, the u.s. department of health and human services, and state regulators, to promulgate regulations or guidance, or to make determinations under or related to the health care act. either the health care act or any of these regulatory actions could adversely affect our ability to attract, retain, and motivate talented associates. they could also result in increased or unpredictable costs to provide employee benefits, and could harm our competitive position if we are subject to fees, penalties, tax provisions or other limitations in the health care act and our competitors are not. the health care act also imposes requirements on us as a provider of non-medical health insurance benefit products, subject to various effective dates. it also imposes requirements on the purchasers of certain of these products and has implications for certain other mlic products, such as annuities. we cannot predict the impact of the act or of regulations, guidance or determinations made by various regulators, on the various products that we offer. either the health care act or any of these regulatory actions could adversely affect our ability to offer certain of these products in the same manner as we do today. they could also result in increased or unpredictable costs to provide certain products, and could harm our competitive position if the health care act has a disparate impact on our products compared to products offered by our competitors. the preservation of access to care for medicare beneficiaries and pension relief act of 2010 also includes certain provisions for defined benefit pension plan funding relief. these provisions may impact the likelihood and/or timing of corporate plan sponsors terminating their plans and/or engaging in transactions to partially or fully transfer pension obligations to an insurance company. as part of our corporate benefit funding segment, we offer general account and separate account group annuity products that enable a plan sponsor to transfer these risks, often in connection with the termination of defined benefit pension plans. consequently, this legislation could indirectly affect the mix of our business, with fewer closeouts and more non-guaranteed funding products, and adversely impact our results of operations. changes in u.s. federal and state securities laws and regulations, and state insurance regulations regarding suitability of annuity product sales, may affect our operations and our profitability federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to insurance products that are also securities, including variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies. as a result, some of metlife, inc. subsidiaries and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance contracts and policies are subject to extensive regulation under these securities laws. these subsidiaries issue variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies through separate accounts that are registered with the sec as investment companies under the investment company act. each registered separate account is generally divided into sub-accounts, each of which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is itself a registered investment company under the investment company act. in addition, the variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies issued by the separate accounts are registered with the sec under the securities act. other subsidiaries are registered with the sec as 61 table of contents broker-dealers under the exchange act, and are members of and subject to regulation by finra. further, some of our subsidiaries are registered as investment advisers with the sec under the investment advisers act of 1940, and are also registered as investment advisers in various states, as applicable. federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily intended to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect investors in the securities markets, as well as protect investment advisory or brokerage clients. these laws and regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with the securities laws and regulations. a number of changes have recently been suggested to the laws and regulations that govern the conduct of our variable insurance products business and our distributors that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. for example, dodd-frank authorizes the sec to establish a standard of conduct applicable to brokers and dealers when providing personalized investment advice to retail and other customers. this standard of conduct would be to act in the best interest of the customer without regard to the financial or other interest of the broker or dealer providing the advice. further, proposals have been made that the sec establish a self-regulatory organization with respect to registered investment advisers, which could increase the level of regulatory oversight over such investment advisers. in addition, state insurance regulators are becoming more active in adopting and enforcing suitability standards with respect to sales of annuities, both fixed and variable. in particular, the naic has adopted a revised suitability in annuity transactions model regulation ( sat ), that will, if enacted by the states, place new responsibilities upon issuing insurance companies with respect to the suitability of annuity sales, including responsibilities for training agents. several states have already enacted laws based on the sat. we also may be subject to similar laws and regulations in the foreign countries in which we offer products or conduct other activities similar to those described above. see business international regulation. changes in tax laws, tax regulations, or interpretations of such laws or regulations could increase our corporate taxes; changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to consumers changes in tax laws, treasury and other regulations promulgated thereunder, or interpretations of such laws or regulations could increase our corporate taxes. the obama administration has proposed corporate tax changes. changes in corporate tax rates could affect the value of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. furthermore, the value of deferred tax assets could be impacted by future earnings levels. changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to consumers. a shift away from life insurance and annuity contracts and other tax-deferred products would reduce our income from sales of these products, as well as the assets upon which we earn investment income. the obama administration has proposed certain changes to individual income tax rates and rules applicable to certain policies. we cannot predict whether any tax legislation impacting corporate taxes or insurance products will be enacted, what the specific terms of any such legislation will be or whether, if at all, any legislation would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. changes to regulations under the employee retirement income security act of 1974 could adversely affect our distribution model by restricting our ability to provide customers with advice the prohibited transaction rules of erisa and the internal revenue code generally restrict the provision of investment advice to erisa plans and participants and individual retirement accounts ( iras ) if the investment recommendation results in fees paid to the individual advisor, his or her firm or their affiliates that vary according to the investment recommendation chosen. in march 2010, the dol issued proposed regulations which provide limited relief from these investment advice restrictions. if the proposed rules are issued in final form and no additional relief is provided regarding these investment advice restrictions, the ability of our affiliated broker-dealers and their registered representatives to provide investment advice to erisa plans and participants, and with respect to iras, would likely be significantly restricted. also, the fee and revenue arrangements of certain advisory 62 table of contents programs may be required to be revenue neutral, resulting in potential lost revenues for these broker-dealers and their affiliates. other proposed regulatory initiatives under erisa also may negatively impact the current business model of our broker-dealers. in particular, the dol issued a proposed regulation in october 2010 that would, if adopted as proposed, significantly broaden the circumstances under which a person or entity providing investment advice with respect to erisa plans or iras would be deemed a fiduciary under erisa or the internal revenue code. if adopted, the proposed regulations may make it easier for the dol in enforcement actions, and for plaintiffs attorneys in erisa litigation, to attempt to extend fiduciary status to advisors who would not be deemed fiduciaries under current regulations. in addition, the dol has issued a number of regulations recently that increase the level of disclosure that must be provided to plan sponsors and participants, and may issue additional such regulations in 2011. these erisa disclosure requirements will likely increase the regulatory and compliance burden upon metlife, resulting in increased costs. we may be unable to attract and retain sales representatives for our products we must attract and retain productive sales representatives to sell our insurance, annuities and investment products. strong competition exists among insurers for sales representatives with demonstrated ability. in addition, there is competition for representatives with other types of financial services firms, such as independent broker-dealers. we compete with other insurers for sales representatives primarily on the basis of our financial position, support services and compensation and product features. we continue to undertake several initiatives to grow our career agency force while continuing to enhance the efficiency and production of our existing sales force. we cannot provide assurance that these initiatives will succeed in attracting and retaining new agents. sales of individual insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents. see business competition. metlife, inc. board of directors may control the outcome of stockholder votes on many matters due to the voting provisions of the metlife policyholder trust under the plan, we established the metlife policyholder trust (the trust ) to hold the shares of metlife, inc. common stock allocated to eligible policyholders not receiving cash or policy credits under the plan. as of february 18, 2011, the trust held 220,255,199 shares, or 22.3%, of the outstanding shares of metlife, inc. common stock. because of the number of shares held in the trust and the voting provisions of the trust, the trust may affect the outcome of matters brought to a stockholder vote. except on votes regarding certain fundamental corporate actions described below, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held in the trust in accordance with the recommendations given by metlife, inc. board of directors to its stockholders or, if the board gives no such recommendations, as directed by the board. as a result of the voting provisions of the trust, the board of directors may be able to control votes on matters submitted to a vote of stockholders, excluding those fundamental corporate actions, so long as the trust holds a substantial number of shares of common stock. if the vote relates to fundamental corporate actions specified in the trust, the trustee will solicit instructions from the trust beneficiaries and vote all shares held in the trust in proportion to the instructions it receives. these actions include: an election or removal of directors in which a stockholder has properly nominated one or more candidates in opposition to a nominee or nominees of metlife, inc. board of directors or a vote on a stockholder proposal to oppose a board nominee for director, remove a director for cause or fill a vacancy caused by the removal of a director by stockholders, subject to certain conditions; 63 table of contents a merger or consolidation, a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the assets, or a recapitalization or dissolution, of metlife, inc., in each case requiring a vote of stockholders under applicable delaware law; any transaction that would result in an exchange or conversion of shares of common stock held by the trust for cash, securities or other property; and any proposal requiring metlife, inc. board of directors to amend or redeem the rights under metlife, inc. stockholder rights plan, other than a proposal with respect to which we have received advice of nationally-recognized legal counsel to the effect that the proposal is not a proper subject for stockholder action under delaware law. metlife, inc. does not currently have a stockholder rights plan. if a vote concerns any of these fundamental corporate actions, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held by the trust in proportion to the instructions it received, which will give disproportionate weight to the instructions actually given by trust beneficiaries. alico holdings has agreed to vote all shares of metlife, inc. common stock acquired by it in connection with the acquisition in proportion to the votes cast by all other stockholders of metlife, inc., including the trust. state laws, federal laws, our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws may delay, deter or prevent takeovers and business combinations that stockholders might consider in their best interests state laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. for instance, they may prevent stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of metlife, inc. common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of metlife, inc. common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. any person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would face various regulatory obstacles which may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders of metlife, inc. might consider in their best interests. first, the insurance laws and regulations of the various states in which metlife, inc. insurance subsidiaries are organized may delay or impede a business combination involving us. state insurance laws prohibit an entity from acquiring control of an insurance company without the prior approval of the domestic insurance regulator. under most states statutes, an entity is presumed to have control of an insurance company if it owns, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of that insurance company or its parent company. we are also subject to banking regulations, and may in the future become subject to additional regulations. dodd-frank contains provisions that could restrict or impede consolidation, mergers and acquisitions by systemically significant firms and/or large bank holding companies. see business u.s. regulation financial holding company regulation change of control and restrictions on mergers and acquisitions. in addition, the investment company act would require approval by the contract owners of our variable contracts in order to effectuate a change of control of any affiliated investment adviser to a mutual fund underlying our variable contracts. finally, finra approval would be necessary for a change of control of any finra registered broker-dealer that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of metlife, inc. in addition, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law may affect the ability of an interested stockholder to engage in certain business combinations, including mergers, consolidations or acquisitions of additional shares, for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. an interested stockholder is defined to include persons owning, directly or indirectly, 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation. metlife, inc. certificate of incorporation and by-laws also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. these provisions may adversely affect prevailing market prices for metlife, inc. common stock and include: classification of metlife, inc. board of directors into three classes; a prohibition on the calling of special meetings by stockholders; advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates to the board of directors and stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; and supermajority voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation and by-laws. 64 table of contents the continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may adversely affect the level of claim losses we incur and the value of our investment portfolio the continued threat of terrorism, both within the u.s. and abroad, ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility in global financial markets and result in loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the credit and equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. we cannot predict whether, and the extent to which, companies in which we maintain investments may suffer losses as a result of financial, commercial or economic disruptions, or how any such disruptions might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or principal on their securities or mortgage loans. the continued threat of terrorism also could result in increased reinsurance prices and reduced insurance coverage and potentially cause us to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. terrorist actions also could disrupt our operations centers in the u.s. or abroad. in addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions could result in higher claims under our insurance policies than anticipated. see difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations and these conditions may not improve in the near future. the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning could impair our ability to conduct business effectively in the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an epidemic, an industrial accident, a blackout, a computer virus, a terrorist attack or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial position, particularly if those problems affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data. we depend heavily upon computer systems to provide reliable service. despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our computer systems could be subject to physical and electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. in addition, in the event that a significant number of our managers were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. these interruptions also may interfere with our suppliers ability to provide goods and services and our employees ability to perform their job responsibilities. our associates may take excessive risks which could negatively affect our financial condition and business as an insurance enterprise, we are in the business of being paid to accept certain risks. the associates who conduct our business, including executive officers and other members of management, sales managers, investment professionals, product managers, sales agents, and other associates, do so in part by making decisions and choices that involve exposing us to risk. these include decisions such as setting underwriting guidelines and standards, product design and pricing, determining what assets to purchase for investment and when to sell them, which business opportunities to pursue, and other decisions. although we endeavor, in the design and implementation of our compensation programs and practices, to avoid giving our associates incentives to take excessive risks, associates may take such risks regardless of the structure of our compensation programs and practices. similarly, although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor associates business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks, there can be no assurance that these controls and procedures are or may be effective. if our associates take excessive risks, the impact of those risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or business operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 180 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management the company must effectively manage, measure and monitor the market risk associated with its assets and liabilities. it has developed an integrated process for managing risk, which it conducts through its enterprise risk management department, asset/liability management unit, treasury department and investment department along with the management of the business segments. the company has established and implemented comprehensive policies and procedures at both the corporate and business segment level to minimize the effects of potential market volatility. the company regularly analyzes its exposure to interest rate, equity market price and foreign currency exchange rate risks. as a result of that analysis, the company has determined that the estimated fair values of certain 180 table of contents assets and liabilities are materially exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and changes in the equity markets. enterprise risk management. metlife has established several financial and non-financial senior management committees as part of its risk management process. these committees manage capital and risk positions, approve alm strategies and establish appropriate corporate business standards. further enhancing its committee structure, during the second quarter of 2010, metlife created an enterprise risk committee made up of the following voting members: the chief financial officer, the chief investment officer, the president of u.s. business, the president of international and the chief risk officer. this committee is responsible for reviewing all material risks to the enterprise and deciding on actions if necessary, in the event risks exceed desirable targets, taking into consideration best practices to resolve or mitigate those risks. metlife also has a separate enterprise risk management department, which is responsible for risk management throughout metlife and reports to metlife chief risk officer. the enterprise risk management department primary responsibilities consist of: implementing a corporate risk framework, which outlines the company approach for managing risk on an enterprise-wide basis; developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring, monitoring and controlling those risks identified in the corporate risk framework; establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels; deploying capital on an economic capital basis; and reporting on a periodic basis to the finance and risk committee of the company board of directors; with respect to credit risk, to the investment committee of the company board of directors; and, reporting on various aspects of risk, to financial and non-financial senior management committees. asset/liability management. the company actively manages its assets using an approach that balances quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity, concentration and investment return. the goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income tax, risk-adjusted investment income and risk-adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are reasonably managed on a cash flow and duration basis. the alm process is the shared responsibility of the financial risk management and asset/liability management unit, enterprise risk management, the portfolio management unit, and the senior members of the business segments and is governed by the alm committees. the alm committees duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios, establishing investment guidelines and limits and providing oversight of the alm process on a periodic basis. the directives of the alm committees are carried out and monitored through alm working groups which are set up to manage by product type. in addition, an alm steering committee oversees the activities of the underlying alm committees. metlife establishes target asset portfolios for each major insurance product, which represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund its liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. these strategies are monitored through regular review of portfolio metrics, such as effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality by the alm working groups. market risk exposures the company has exposure to market risk through its insurance operations and investment activities. for purposes of this disclosure, market risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity market. interest rates. the company exposure to interest rate changes results most significantly from its holdings of fixed maturity securities, as well as its interest rate sensitive liabilities. the fixed maturity securities include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds and mortgage-backed securities, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium- and long-term interest rates. the interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include debt, policyholder account balances related to certain investment type contracts, and net embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits 181 table of contents which have the same type of interest rate exposure (medium- and long-term interest rates) as fixed maturity securities. the company employs product design, pricing and alm strategies to reduce the adverse effects of interest rate movements. product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products and the ability to reset credited rates for certain products. alm strategies include the use of derivatives and duration mismatch limits. see risk factors changes in market interest rates may significantly affect our profitability. foreign currency exchange rates. the company exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar results from its holdings in non-u.s. dollar denominated fixed maturity and equity securities, mortgage loans, and certain liabilities, as well as through its investments in foreign subsidiaries. the principal currencies that create foreign currency exchange rate risk in the company investment portfolios are the euro, the japanese yen and the canadian dollar. the principal currencies that create foreign currency risk in the company liabilities are the british pound, the euro and the swiss franc. selectively, the company uses u.s. dollar assets to support certain long duration foreign currency liabilities. through its investments in foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures, the company is primarily exposed to the mexican peso, the japanese yen, the south korean won, the canadian dollar, the british pound, the chilean peso, the australian dollar, the argentine peso, the polish zloty, the euro and the hong kong dollar. in addition to hedging with foreign currency swaps, forwards and options, local surplus in some countries is held entirely or in part in u.s. dollar assets which further minimizes exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. the company has matched much of its foreign currency liabilities in its foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency assets, thereby reducing its risk to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. see risk factors fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our profitability. equity market. the company has exposure to equity market risk through certain liabilities that involve long-term guarantees on equity performance such as net embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits, certain policyholder account balances along with investments in equity securities. we manage this risk on an integrated basis with other risks through our alm strategies including the dynamic hedging of certain variable annuity guarantee benefits. the company also manages equity market risk exposure in its investment portfolio through the use of derivatives. equity exposures associated with other limited partnership interests are excluded from this section as they are not considered financial instruments under gaap. management of market risk exposures the company uses a variety of strategies to manage interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market risk, including the use of derivative instruments. interest rate risk management. to manage interest rate risk, the company analyzes interest rate risk using various models, including multi-scenario cash flow projection models that forecast cash flows of the liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivative instruments. these projections involve evaluating the potential gain or loss on most of the company in-force business under various increasing and decreasing interest rate environments. the new york state insurance department regulations require that metlife perform some of these analyses annually as part of metlife review of the sufficiency of its regulatory reserves. for several of its legal entities, the company maintains segmented operating and surplus asset portfolios for the purpose of alm and the allocation of investment income to product lines. for each segment, invested assets greater than or equal to the gaap liabilities less the dac asset and any non-invested assets allocated to the segment are maintained, with any excess swept to the surplus segment. the business segments may reflect differences in legal entity, statutory line of business and any product market characteristic which may drive a distinct investment strategy with respect to duration, liquidity or credit quality of the invested assets. certain smaller entities make use of unsegmented general accounts for which the investment strategy reflects the aggregate characteristics of liabilities in those entities. the company measures relative sensitivities of the value of its assets and liabilities to changes in key assumptions utilizing company models. these models reflect specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting rates. in addition, these models include asset cash flow projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage prepayments and defaults. 182 table of contents common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, are also used to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and liability values to changes in interest rates. in computing the duration of liabilities, consideration is given to all policyholder guarantees and to how the company intends to set indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or dividends. each asset portfolio has a duration target based on the liability duration and the investment objectives of that portfolio. where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity of available assets, as is the case with certain retirement and non-medical health products, the company may support such liabilities with equity investments, derivatives or curve mismatch strategies. foreign currency exchange rate risk management. foreign currency exchange rate risk is assumed primarily in three ways: investments in foreign subsidiaries, purchases of foreign currency denominated investments in the investment portfolio and the sale of certain insurance products. the company treasury department is responsible for managing the exposure to investments in foreign subsidiaries. limits to exposures are established and monitored by the treasury department and managed by the investment department. the investment department is responsible for managing the exposure to foreign currency investments. exposure limits to unhedged foreign currency investments are incorporated into the standing authorizations granted to management by the board of directors and are reported to the board of directors on a periodic basis. the lines of business are responsible for establishing limits and managing any foreign exchange rate exposure caused by the sale or issuance of insurance products. metlife uses foreign currency swaps and forwards to hedge its foreign currency denominated fixed income investments, its equity exposure in subsidiaries and its foreign currency exposures caused by the sale of insurance products. equity market risk management. equity market risk exposure through the issuance of variable annuities is managed by the company asset/liability management unit in partnership with the investment department. equity market risk is realized through its investment in equity securities and is managed by its investment department. metlife uses derivatives to hedge its equity exposure both in certain liability guarantees such as variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefit and equity securities. these derivatives include exchange-traded equity futures, equity index options contracts and equity variance swaps. the company also employs reinsurance to manage these exposures. hedging activities. metlife uses derivative contracts primarily to hedge a wide range of risks including interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, and equity risk. derivative hedges are designed to reduce risk on an economic basis while considering their impact on accounting results and gaap and statutory capital. the construction of the company derivative hedge programs vary depending on the type of risk being hedged. some hedge programs are asset or liability specific while others are portfolio hedges that reduce risk related to a group of liabilities or assets. the company use of derivatives by major hedge programs is as follows: risks related to living guarantee benefits the company uses a wide range of derivative contracts to hedge the risk associated with variable annuity living guarantee benefits. these hedges include equity and interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, currency futures/forwards, equity indexed options and interest rate option contracts and equity variance swaps. minimum interest rate guarantees for certain company liability contracts, the company provides the contractholder a guaranteed minimum interest rate. these contracts include certain fixed annuities and other insurance liabilities. the company purchases interest rate floors to reduce risk associated with these liability guarantees. reinvestment risk in long duration liability contracts derivatives are used to hedge interest rate risk related to certain long duration liability contracts, such as deferred annuities. hedges include zero coupon interest rate swaps and swaptions. 183 table of contents foreign currency risk the company uses currency swaps and forwards to hedge foreign currency risk. these hedges primarily swap foreign currency denominated bonds, investments in foreign subsidiaries or equity exposures to u.s. dollars. general alm hedging strategies in the ordinary course of managing the company asset/liability risks, the company uses interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, interest rate floors and inflation swaps. these hedges are designed to reduce interest rate risk or inflation risk related to the existing assets or liabilities or related to expected future cash flows. risk measurement: sensitivity analysis the company measures market risk related to its market sensitive assets and liabilities based on changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates utilizing a sensitivity analysis. this analysis estimates the potential changes in estimated fair value based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, equity market prices and foreign currency exchange rates. the company believes that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the near-term. in performing the analysis summarized below, the company used market rates at december 31, 2010. the sensitivity analysis separately calculates each of the company market risk exposures (interest rate, equity market and foreign currency exchange rate) relating to its trading and non-trading assets and liabilities. the company modeled the impact of changes in market rates and prices on the estimated fair values of its market sensitive assets and liabilities as follows: the net present values of its interest rate sensitive exposures resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates; the u.s. dollar equivalent estimated fair values of the company foreign currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in foreign currency exchange rates; and the estimated fair value of its equity positions due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity market prices. the sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as predictive of the company future financial performance. the company cannot ensure that its actual losses in any particular period will not exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. limitations related to this sensitivity analysis include: the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgages; for the derivatives that qualify as hedges, the impact on reported earnings may be materially different from the change in market values; the analysis excludes other significant real estate holdings and liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts; and the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains unchanged throughout the period. accordingly, the company uses such models as tools and not as substitutes for the experience and judgment of its management. based on its analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and prices, metlife has determined that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the estimated fair value of certain assets and liabilities from interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity exposures. the table below illustrates the potential loss in estimated fair value for each market risk exposure of the company market sensitive assets and liabilities at december 31, 2010: december 31, 2010 (in millions) non-trading: interest rate risk $ 5,358 foreign currency exchange rate risk $ 3,669 equity market risk $ 14 trading: interest rate risk $ 24 foreign currency exchange rate risk $ 346 184 table of contents sensitivity analysis: interest rates. the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in fair value of the company trading and non-trading interest sensitive financial instruments at december 31, 2010 by type of asset or liability: december 31, 2010 assuming a estimated 10% increase notional fair in the yield amount value (3) curve (in millions) assets: fixed maturity securities $ 327,284 $ (5,961 ) equity securities 3,606 trading and other securities 18,589 (25 ) mortgage loans: held-for-investment 60,846 (355 ) held-for-sale 3,321 (24 ) mortgage loans, net 64,167 (379 ) policy loans 13,406 (179 ) real estate joint ventures (1) 482 other limited partnership interests (1) 1,619 short-term investments 9,387 (2 ) other invested assets: mortgage servicing rights 950 70 other 1,490 cash and cash equivalents 13,046 (2 ) accrued investment income 4,381 premiums, reinsurance and other receivables 4,048 (331 ) other assets 453 (9 ) net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) 185 (17 ) mortgage loan commitments $ 3,754 (17 ) (13 ) commitments to fund bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments $ 2,437 total assets $ (6,848 ) liabilities: policyholder account balances $ 152,850 $ 849 payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions 27,272 bank deposits 10,371 5 short-term debt 306 long-term debt 21,892 361 collateral financing arrangements 4,757 (9 ) junior subordinated debt securities 3,461 160 other liabilities: trading liabilities 46 1 other 2,777 net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) 2,634 1,515 total liabilities $ 2,882 derivative instruments: interest rate swaps $ 54,803 $ 1,138 $ (1,254 ) interest rate floors $ 23,866 564 (67 ) interest rate caps $ 35,412 175 57 interest rate futures $ 9,385 26 20 interest rate options $ 8,761 121 (8 ) interest rate forwards $ 10,374 (29 ) (32 ) synthetic gics $ 4,397 foreign currency swaps $ 17,626 334 (12 ) foreign currency forwards $ 10,443 28 1 currency futures $ 493 2 currency options $ 5,426 50 non-derivative hedging instruments $ 169 (185 ) credit default swaps $ 10,957 69 credit forwards $ 90 (1 ) equity futures $ 8,794 12 equity options $ 33,688 646 (96 ) variance swaps $ 18,022 80 (9 ) total rate of return swaps $ 1,547 (16 ) total derivative instruments $ (1,416 ) net change $ (5,382 ) 185 table of contents (1) represents only those investments accounted for using the cost method. (2) embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. (3) separate account assets and liabilities which are interest rate sensitive are not included herein as any interest rate risk is borne by the holder of the separate account. this quantitative measure of risk has increased by $1,325 million, or 33%, to $5,382 million at december 31, 2010 from $4,057 million at december 31, 2009. excluding the acquisition which increased risk by $647 million, the quantitative measure of risk increased by $678 million or 17% at december 31, 2010 from december 31, 2009. the increase in risk is due to a change in the net assets and liabilities bases of $641 million. in addition, an increase of $954 million was due to the use of derivatives employed by the company ($445 million), an increase in the duration of the investment portfolio ($389 million), and an increase in premiums, reinsurance and other receivables ($120 million). this increase in risk was partially offset by a decrease in interest rates across the long end of the swaps and u.s. treasury curves resulting in a decrease of $424 million. additionally, net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts increased by $520 million, partially due to a change made in the second quarter of 2010 related to how the company estimates the spread over the swap curve for purposes of determining the discount rate used to value those derivatives, which caused a corresponding decrease in risk. the remainder of the fluctuation is attributable to numerous immaterial items. 186 table of contents sensitivity analysis: foreign currency exchange rates . the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of the company portfolio due to a 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates at december 31, 2010 by type of asset or liability: december 31, 2010 assuming a estimated 10% increase notional fair in the foreign amount value (1) exchange rate (in millions) assets: fixed maturity securities $ 327,284 $ (6,516 ) equity securities 3,606 (74 ) trading and other securities 18,589 (346 ) mortgage loans: held-for-investment 60,846 (414 ) held-for-sale 3,321 mortgage loans, net 64,167 (414 ) policy loans 13,406 (199 ) short-term investments 9,387 (200 ) other invested assets: mortgage servicing rights 950 other 1,490 (143 ) cash and cash equivalents 13,046 (139 ) accrued investment income 4,381 (11 ) premiums, reinsurance and other receivables 4,048 (16 ) total assets $ (8,058 ) liabilities: policyholder account balances $ 152,850 $ 3,255 bank deposits 10,371 long-term debt 21,892 37 other liabilities 2,777 9 net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) 2,634 437 total liabilities $ 3,738 derivative instruments: interest rate swaps $ 54,083 $ 1,138 $ (17 ) interest rate floors $ 23,866 564 interest rate caps $ 35,412 175 interest rate futures $ 9,385 26 (2 ) interest rate options $ 8,761 121 (2 ) interest rate forwards $ 10,374 (29 ) synthetic gics $ 4,397 foreign currency swaps $ 17,626 334 271 foreign currency forwards $ 10,443 28 73 currency futures $ 493 2 (49 ) currency options $ 5,426 50 107 non-derivative hedging instruments $ 169 (185 ) credit default swaps $ 10,957 69 credit forwards $ 90 (1 ) equity futures $ 8,794 12 2 equity options $ 33,688 646 (77 ) variance swaps $ 18,022 80 (1 ) total rate of return swaps $ 1,547 total derivative instruments $ 305 net change $ (4,015 ) 187 table of contents (1) estimated fair value presented in the table above represents the estimated fair value of all financial instruments within this financial statement caption not necessarily those solely subject to foreign exchange risk. (2) embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. foreign currency exchange rate risk increased by $3,124 million, to $4,015 million at december 31, 2010 from $891 million at december 31, 2009. excluding the acquisition which increased risk by $2,646 million, the foreign currency exchange risk has increased by $478 million or 54% at december 31, 2010 from december 31, 2009. this change was due to an increase in exchange rate risk relating to fixed maturity securities of $722 million due to higher exposures primarily within the british pound and the euro and to the sale of the pension closeout business in the u.k. additionally, a decrease in the foreign exposure related to long-term debt and pabs contributed $66 million and $41 million, respectively, to the increase. this was partially offset by an increase in the foreign exposure related to net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts and the use of derivatives employed by the company of $315 million and $101 million, respectively. the remainder of the fluctuation is attributable to numerous immaterial items. 188 table of contents sensitivity analysis: equity market prices. the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of the company portfolio due to a 10% change in equity at december 31, 2010 by type of asset or liability: december 31, 2010 assuming a estimated 10% decrease notional fair in equity amount value (1) prices (in millions) assets: equity securities $ 3,606 $ (355 ) other invested assets: net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) 185 11 total assets $ (344 ) liabilities: policyholder account balances $ 152,850 $ bank deposits 10,371 other liabilities: net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) 2,634 (456 ) total liabilities $ (456 ) derivative instruments: interest rate swaps $ 54,803 $ 1,138 $ interest rate floors $ 23,866 564 interest rate caps $ 35,412 175 interest rate futures $ 9,385 26 interest rate options $ 8,761 121 interest rate forwards $ 10,374 (29 ) synthetic gics $ 4,397 foreign currency swaps $ 17,626 334 foreign currency forwards $ 10,443 28 currency futures $ 493 2 currency options $ 5,426 50 non-derivative hedging instruments $ 169 (185 ) credit default swaps $ 10,957 69 credit forwards $ 90 (1 ) equity futures $ 8,794 12 3 equity options $ 33,688 646 628 variance swaps $ 18,022 80 total rate of return swaps $ 1,547 155 total derivative instruments $ 786 net change $ (14 ) (1) estimated fair value presented in the table above represents the estimated fair value of all financial instruments within this financial statement caption not necessarily those solely subject to equity market risk. (2) embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. 189 table of contents (3) during the fourth quarter of 2010, the analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity market rates determined that due to the inclusion of alico, a decrease of 10% had the most adverse effect on our equity risk while the prior year end analysis of equity market rates shows an increase of 10% had the most adverse effect. equity price risk decreased by $204 million to $14 million at december 31, 2010 from $218 million at december 31, 2009. excluding the acquisition which shifted the impact of a 10% change to a decrease in the equity market rates, the equity price risk has decreased by $191 million at december 31, 2010 from december 31, 2009. this decrease is primarily due to a change of $210 million attributed to the use of derivatives employed by the company to hedge its equity exposures. additionally, an increase in the net exposures related to net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts of $42 million contributed to the decrease. this was partially offset by a decrease of $60 million in equity securities. the remainder of the fluctuation is attributable to numerous insignificant items. 190 table of contentsrisk factors 38 risk factors economic environment and capital markets risks difficult economic conditions may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in financial asset classes or various markets can have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and our insurance liabilities are sensitive to changing market factors. global market factors, including interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, derivative prices and availability, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, and deflation and inflation, and government actions taken in response to any of these factors, could all adversely affect our financial condition (including our liquidity and capital levels), our business operations and our ability to receive dividends from our insurance subsidiaries and meet our obligations at metlife, inc., by virtue of their impact on levels of economic activity, employment, customer behavior, or mismatched impacts on the value of our assets and our liabilities. such factors could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses, derivative losses, changes in insurance liabilities, impairments, increased valuation allowances, increases in reserves for future policyholder benefits, reduced net investment income and changes in unrealized gain or loss positions. sustained periods of low interest rates and risk asset returns could reduce income from our investment portfolio, increase our liabilities for claims and future benefits, and increase the cost of risk transfer measures such as hedging, causing our profit margins to erode as a result of reduced income from our investment portfolio and increase in insurance liabilities. in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as a global credit crisis, a market downturn, or sustained low market returns we could incur significant capital or operating losses due to, among other reasons, losses incurred in our general account and as a result of the impact on us of guarantees, including increases in liabilities, capital maintenance obligations and collateral requirements associated with our affiliated reinsurers and other similar arrangements. any of these events could also impair our financial strength ratings. the demand for our financial and insurance products could be adversely affected by an economic downturn resulting in higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment, lower consumer spending, elevated incidence of claims, adverse utilization of benefits relative to our best estimate expectations, lapses or surrenders of policies, and policyholders choosing to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. such adverse changes in the economy could negatively affect our earnings and capitalization and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 38 table of contents declining equity markets could decrease the account value of our variable insurance products and other products issued through separate accounts. lower interest rates may result in lower returns in fixed income vehicles. decreases in account values reduce certain fees generated by these products, which could increase the level of insurance liabilities we must carry to support such products issued with any associated guarantees, cause the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs ( dac ) to accelerate, and require us to provide additional funding to our captive reinsurers. see: business regulation; management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends financial and economic environment; management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends impact of a sustained low interest rate environment; and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment. interest rate risk some of our products, principally traditional life, universal life, fixed annuities, gics, funding agreements and structured settlements, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates, including reductions in the difference between short-term and long-term interest rates, could reduce our investment margin or spread, which could in turn reduce our net income. in a low interest rate environment, we may be forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, which could reduce our investment spread. moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the fixed income securities and commercial, agricultural or residential mortgage loans in our investment portfolio with greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates, thereby exacerbating this risk. although lowering interest crediting rates can help offset decreases in spreads on some products, our ability to lower these rates is limited to the portion of our in-force product portfolio that has adjustable interest crediting rates, and could be limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. as a result, our spread could decrease or potentially become negative, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income and potentially negatively affecting our credit instrument covenants or rating agency assessment of our financial condition. in addition, during periods of declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be relatively more attractive investments to consumers. this could result in increased premium payments on products with flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans and increased persistency during a period when our new investments carry lower returns. a decline in market interest rates could also reduce our return on investments that do not support particular policy obligations. during periods of sustained lower interest rates, our reserves for policy liabilities may not be sufficient to meet future policy obligations and may need to be strengthened. accordingly, declining and sustained lower interest rates may materially affect our results of operations, financial position, cash flows, and ability to take dividends from operating insurance companies, as well as significantly reduce our profitability. 39 table of contents increases in interest rates could also negatively affect our profitability. in periods of rapidly increasing interest rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, the investments in our general account with higher yielding investments needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep interest rate sensitive products competitive. we therefore may have to accept a lower spread and thus lower profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of existing contracts and related assets. in addition, policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals may increase as policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns as interest rates rise. this process may result in cash outflows requiring that we sell investments at a time when the prices of those investments are adversely affected by the increase in interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses. unanticipated withdrawals, terminations and substantial policy amendments may cause us to accelerate the amortization of dac and value of business acquired ( voba ), which reduces net income and potentially negatively affects our credit instrument covenants and rating agency assessment of our financial condition, and may also cause us to accelerate the amortization of negative voba, which increases net income. an increase in interest rates could also have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the estimated fair values of fixed income securities. additionally, an increase in interest rates could increase our daily settlement payments on interest rate futures and cleared swaps, which may result in increased cash outflows and increase our liquidity needs. furthermore, if interest rates rise, our unrealized gains on fixed income securities would decrease and our unrealized losses would increase, perhaps substantially. the accumulated change in estimated fair value of these fixed income securities would be recognized in net income when a gain or loss is realized upon the sale of the security or if the decline in estimated fair value is determined to be other than temporary and an impairment charge to earnings is taken. finally, an increase in interest rates could result in decreased fee income associated with a decline in the value of variable annuity account balances invested in fixed income funds. actions resulting from the monetary policies of the federal reserve board and of central banks around the world, including with respect to interest rates, may also impact the pricing levels of risk-bearing investments and may adversely impact the income we earn on our investments or the level of product sales. although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our fixed income investments relative to our interest rate sensitive liabilities. for some of our liability portfolios it is not possible to invest assets to the full liability duration, thereby creating some asset/liability mismatch. in addition, asymmetrical and non-economic accounting may cause material changes to our net income and stockholders' equity in any given period because our non-qualified derivatives are recorded at fair value through earnings, while the related hedged items either follow an accrual-based accounting model, such as insurance liabilities, or are recorded at fair value through other comprehensive income. regulators, law enforcement agencies, or the ice benchmark association (the current administrator of libor) may take actions resulting in changes to the way libor is determined, the discontinuance of reliance on libor as a benchmark rate or the establishment of alternative reference rates. the u.k. financial conduct authority has announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit libor rates after 2021. the federal reserve bank of new york has begun publishing a secured overnight funding rate ( sofr ), which is intended to replace u.s. dollar libor, and central banks in several other jurisdictions have also announced plans for alternative reference rates for other currencies. at this time, we cannot predict how markets will respond to these new rates, and we cannot predict the effect of any changes to or discontinuation of libor on new or existing financial instruments to which we have exposure. any changes to or discontinuation of libor may have an adverse effect on interest rates on certain derivatives and floating-rate securities we hold, securities we have issued, or other assets or liabilities whose value is tied to libor or to a libor alternative. any uncertainty regarding the continued use and reliability of libor could adversely affect the value of such instruments. furthermore, changes to or the discontinuation of libor may impact other aspects of our business, including products, pricing, and models. any change to or discontinuation of similar benchmark rates besides libor could have similar effects. see: management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends impact of a sustained low interest rate environment; management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment; management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments fixed maturity securities afs and equity securities; and note 9 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 40 table of contents credit spread risk changes in credit spreads may result in market price volatility and cash flow variability. market price volatility can make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent. in such case, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period-to-period changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition and may require additional reserves. significant volatility in the markets could cause changes in credit spreads and defaults and a lack of pricing transparency, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. an increase in credit spreads relative to u.s. treasury benchmarks can also adversely affect the cost of our borrowing should we need to access credit markets. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments investment risks. equity risk downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a material adverse effect on the revenues and investment returns from our savings and investment products and services, where fee income is earned based upon the estimated fair value of the assets that we manage. the variable annuity business in particular is highly sensitive to equity markets, and a sustained weakness or stagnation in the equity markets could decrease revenues and earnings with respect to those products. furthermore, certain of our variable annuity products offer guaranteed benefits that increase our potential benefit exposure should equity markets decline or stagnate. sustained declines in long-term equity returns or interest rates likely would have a negative effect on the funded status of our pension plans and other postretirement benefit obligations. an increase in equity markets could increase settlement payments on equity futures, which may result in increased cash outflows and increase our liquidity needs. the timing of distributions from and valuations of leveraged buy-out funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds in which we invest can be difficult to predict and depends on the performance of the underlying investments, the funds' schedules for making distributions, and their needs for cash. as a result, the amount of net investment income from these investments can vary substantially from period to period. significant volatility could adversely impact returns and net investment income on these alternative investment classes. in addition, the estimated fair value of such alternative investments or equity securities we hold may be adversely impacted by downturns or volatility in equity markets. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. real estate risk our investments in commercial, agricultural and residential mortgage loans, and our investments in real estate and real estate joint ventures, can be adversely affected by changes in the supply and demand of leasable commercial space, creditworthiness of tenants and partners, capital markets volatility, interest rate fluctuations, commodity prices, farm incomes and housing and commercial property market conditions. these factors, which are beyond our control, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. obligor and counterparty risk our general account investments in certain countries, which we maintain to support our insurance operations and related policyholder liabilities in these countries and as part of our global portfolio diversification, could be adversely affected by volatility resulting from local economic and political concerns, as well as volatility in specific sectors. additionally, u.s. states, municipalities may face budget deficits and other financial difficulties, which could have an adverse impact on the value of securities we hold issued by and political subdivisions or under the auspices of such u.s. states, municipalities and political subdivisions. the issuers or guarantors of fixed income securities and mortgage loans we own may default on principal and interest payments they owe us. additionally, the underlying collateral within asset-backed securities, including mortgage-backed securities, may default on principal and interest payments causing an adverse change in cash flows. the occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening credit spreads, or other events that adversely affect the issuers, guarantors or underlying collateral of these securities and mortgage loans could cause the estimated fair value of our portfolio of fixed income securities and mortgage loans and our earnings to decline and the default rate of the fixed income securities and mortgage loans in our investment portfolio to increase. 41 table of contents many of our transactions with counterparties such as brokers and dealers, central clearinghouses, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge funds and investment funds and other financial institutions expose us to the risk of counterparty default. such credit risk may be exacerbated if we cannot realize the collateral held by us in secured transactions or cannot liquidate such collateral at prices sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. furthermore, potential action by governments and regulatory bodies, such as investment, nationalization, conservatorship, receivership and other intervention, whether under existing legal authority or any new authority that may be created, or lack of action by governments and central banks, as well as deterioration in the banks' credit standing, could negatively impact these instruments, securities, transactions and investments or limit our ability to trade with them. any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these investments or other changes may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. see: management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends financial and economic environment and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment selected country and sector investments. currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar resulting from our holdings of non-u.s. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries, net income from non-u.s. operations and issuance of non-u.s. dollar denominated instruments, including gics and funding agreements. in general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the u.s. dollar will adversely affect the estimated fair value of our non-u.s. dollar denominated investments, our investments in non-u.s. subsidiaries, and our net income from non-u.s. operations. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may make certain of our products less attractive to customers, particularly products denominated in a currency that is not the local currency of the market in which such products are sold, which may increase levels of early policy terminations and decrease sales volume and our amount of business in force. the negative effects described above may be exacerbated if international markets, particularly emerging markets, experience severe economic or financial disruptions or significant currency devaluations, if a foreign economy is determined to be highly inflationary, or if a country withdraws from the euro zone. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could thus have a material adverse effect on our operations, earnings and investments in the affected countries. we may be unable to mitigate the risk of such changes in exchange rates due to unhedged positions, asymmetrical and non-economic accounting resulting from derivative gains (losses) on non-qualifying hedges, the failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation, or other factors. even if foreign currency denominated liabilities are matched with investments denominated in the respective foreign currencies, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect the translation of results into our u.s. dollar basis consolidated financial statements. see: management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations executive summary other key information argentina highly inflationary and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. derivatives risk if our counterparties, clearing brokers or central clearinghouses fail or refuse to honor their obligations under our derivatives, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. a counterparty's or central clearinghouse's insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of derivatives agreements or inability or unwillingness to return collateral could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, including our liquidity. if the net estimated fair value of a derivative to which we are a party declines, we may be required to pledge collateral or make payments related to such decline. in addition, ratings downgrades or financial difficulties of derivative counterparties may require us to utilize additional capital with respect to the impacted businesses. furthermore, the valuation of our derivatives could change based on changes to our valuation methodology or the discovery of errors in such valuation or valuation methodology. see: business regulation derivatives regulation and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations derivatives. 42 table of contents terrorism and security risks the continued threat of terrorism, both within the u.s. and abroad, ongoing military and other actions, potential military conflicts, and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility in global financial markets and result in loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. the value of our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the credit and equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by such threats. companies in which we maintain investments may suffer losses as a result of financial, commercial or economic disruptions, and such disruptions might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or principal on their securities or mortgage loans. terrorist or military actions also could disrupt our operations centers and result in higher than anticipated claims under our insurance policies. adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, our access to capital and our cost of capital volatility, disruptions, or other conditions in global capital markets could also have an adverse impact on our capital, credit capacity, and liquidity. if our stress-testing indicates that such conditions could have an impact beyond expectations, or our business otherwise requires, we may have to seek additional financing, the availability and cost of which could be adversely affected by market conditions, regulatory considerations, availability of credit to our industry generally, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and the perception of our customers and lenders regarding our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large operating or investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to a market downturn. similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient and, in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all. our liquidity requirements may change if, among other things, we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral on short notice under securities lending or derivatives agreements or we are required to post collateral or make payments related to specified counterparty agreements. without sufficient liquidity, our ability to pay claims, other operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock, to provide our subsidiaries with cash or collateral, to maintain our securities lending activities, to replace certain maturing liabilities, to sustain our operations and investments, and to repurchase our common stock could be adversely affected, and our business and financial results may suffer. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital needed to operate our business, most significantly in our insurance operations. such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities, satisfy regulatory capital requirements, and access the capital necessary to grow our business. as a result, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue different types of securities than we would have otherwise, less effectively deploy such capital, issue shorter tenor securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. see: management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments securities lending and repurchase agreements; and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity. an inability to access our credit facility could result in a reduction in our liquidity and lead to downgrades in our credit and financial strength ratings our failure to comply with or fulfill all conditions and covenants under the unsecured credit facility (the credit facility ) maintained by metlife, inc. and metlife funding, inc. ( metlife funding ), or the failure of lenders to fund their lending commitments (whether due to insolvency, illiquidity or other reasons) in the amounts provided for under the terms of the credit facility, could restrict our ability to access the credit facility when needed. this could adversely affect our ability to meet our obligations as they come due and our credit and financial strength ratings, and could thus have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. see: management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital sources global funding sources credit and committed facilities and note 12 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 43 table of contents a downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could result in a loss of business and materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ( nrsros ) and similar entities could downgrade our insurance companies' financial strength ratings or our credit ratings, or lower our ratings outlooks, at any time and without notice. such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including: reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other investment products; impacting the cost and availability of financing for metlife, inc. and its subsidiaries; adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and independent sales intermediaries; materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders; requiring us to post collateral, including additional collateral under certain of our financing and derivative transactions; requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and services to remain competitive; providing termination rights for the benefit of our derivative instrument counterparties; adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices or at all; limiting our access to the capital markets; increasing the cost of debt; and subjecting us to increased regulatory scrutiny. nrsros may heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to insurance companies, increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, request additional information from the companies that they rate, and adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. see: business company ratings; management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital uses pledged collateral; management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company capital rating agencies; and note 9 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of reinsurance protection for new business, and in certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for business already reinsured may also increase. any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss, and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to the policies we issue. because reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to policyholders, a reinsurer's insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of a reinsurance agreement, or a reinsurer's inability or unwillingness to maintain collateral, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, including our liquidity. see business reinsurance activity. 44 table of contents our statutory life insurance reserve financings may be subject to cost increases, and new financings may be subject to limited market capacity certain of our financing facilities that support statutory life insurance reserves for previously written business are subject to cost increases upon the occurrence of specified ratings downgrades of metlife or are subject to periodic re-pricing. any resulting cost increases could negatively impact our financial results. furthermore, future capacity for such statutory reserve financing structures in the marketplace is not guaranteed. if types of assets permitted under current regulations are not available in the future to back statutory reserves, as a result of new legislation or regulations or otherwise, we would not be able to take some or all statutory reserve credit for such transactions, which could materially and adversely affect the statutory capitalization of certain of our insurance subsidiaries. see: business regulation insurance regulation naic and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company capital affiliated captive reinsurance transactions. regulatory and legal risks our businesses are highly regulated, and changes in laws, regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability, limit our growth, or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition our businesses are subject to a wide variety of insurance and other laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which they operate across the world. authorities and regulators may take actions or make decisions, including implementing or modifying licensing, permit, or approval requirements, that may negatively affect our business. they may also take actions or make decisions that adversely affect our customers and independent sales intermediaries or their operations, which may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or distribute our products, and thus may negatively affect our business in a variety of jurisdictions. the overall regulatory environment (or changes to that environment) in the countries in which we operate, and changes in laws in those jurisdictions, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we cannot predict with any certainty the impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations of changes to legislative or administrative policies that can affect insurance, such as policies regarding financial services regulation, securities regulation, derivatives regulation, pension regulation, health care regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation, or any new legislation or regulatory changes that may be adopted. from time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations or audits of metlife, inc.'s regulated subsidiaries that could, if determined adversely, have a material impact on us. in addition, changing interpretations of regulations by regulators and statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements, may adversely affect our businesses. further, a particular regulator or other governmental authority may interpret a law, regulation or accounting principle differently than we have, exposing us to different or additional risks. compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including regulatory and securities filings requirements, is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business. additionally, any failure to strictly comply with regulatory or securities filing requirements, or any other legal or regulatory requirements, could harm our reputation or result in regulatory sanctions or legal claims. changes to or failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could thus have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, solvency standards under development in several markets may impact our capital requirements, risk management infrastructure and reporting. furthermore, there can be no assurance that metlife will not in the future be subject to enhanced capital standards, supervision and additional requirements, such as g-sii requirements or other group capital standards or insurer capital standards. under provisions of dodd-frank, if metlife, inc. were to become insolvent or were in danger of defaulting on its obligations and it was determined that such default would have serious effects on financial stability in the u.s., metlife, inc. could be compelled to undergo liquidation with the fdic as receiver. if the fdic were appointed as the receiver, liquidation would occur under the provisions of the new liquidation authority and not under the bankruptcy code. in an fdic-managed liquidation, our shareholders and unsecured creditors could bear greater losses than they would in a liquidation under the bankruptcy code. these provisions could also apply to financial institutions whose debt securities we hold in our investment portfolio and could adversely affect our position as a creditor and the value of our holdings. we could also be subject to assessment of charges to cover the costs of liquidating any financial company subject to the new liquidation authority, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. 45 table of contents changes to the laws and regulations that govern the conduct of our variable and registered fixed insurance products business and the firms that distribute these products could adversely affect our operations and profitability. such changes could increase our regulatory and compliance burden, resulting in increased costs, or limit the type, amount or structure of compensation arrangements into which we may enter with certain of our associates, which could negatively impact our ability to compete with other companies in recruiting and retaining key personnel. additionally, our ability to react to rapidly changing economic conditions and the dynamic, competitive market for variable and registered fixed products will depend on the continued efficacy of provisions we have incorporated into our product design allowing frequent and contemporaneous revisions of key pricing elements, as well as our ability to work collaboratively with securities regulators. changes in regulatory approval processes, rules and other dynamics in the regulatory process could adversely impact our ability to react to such changing conditions. we also cannot predict with certainty the impact of rules, should they take effect, substantially expanding the definition of investment advice and imposing an impartial or best interests standard in providing such advice, thereby broadening the circumstances under which metlife or its representatives could be deemed a fiduciary under erisa or the code, or amendments to certain prohibited transaction exemptions, will have on our products and services to certain employee benefit plans that are subject to erisa or the code. furthermore, we cannot predict the impact that best interest standards recently proposed by various regulators may have on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. compliance with new or changed rules or legislation in this area may increase our regulatory burden and that of our independent sales intermediaries, require changes to our compensation practices and product offerings, and increase litigation risk, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. laws, regulations, or regulatory actions regarding health care and other areas may also adversely affect our ability to continue to offer our products, including non-medical health and dental insurance products, in the same manner as we do today and may result in increased and unpredictable costs to provide certain products, thereby harming our competitive position. we are unable to predict how future changes, if any, to laws or regulations may affect us or the products that we offer. we provide employment-related benefits to our associates and to certain of our retirees under complex plans that are subject to a variety of regulatory requirements. if laws, regulations or regulatory actions result in changes to those benefits, it could adversely affect our ability to attract, retain and motivate our associates. such laws, regulations and regulatory actions could also result in increased or unpredictable costs to provide employee benefits, and could harm our competitive position if we are subject to fees, penalties, tax provisions or other limitations and our competitors are not. in addition, rules on defined benefit pension plan funding may negatively impact the likelihood or timing of corporate plan sponsors terminating their plans or engaging in transactions to partially or fully transfer pension obligations to an insurance company. consequently, such rules could indirectly affect the mix of our business, resulting in fewer pension risk transfers and more non-guaranteed funding products, and could adversely impact our results of operations. changes in laws and regulations that affect our customers and independent sales intermediaries or their operations also may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or distribute our products. such actions may negatively affect our business and results of operations. if our associates fail to adhere to regulatory requirements or our policies and procedures, we may be subject to penalties, restrictions or other sanctions by applicable regulators, and we may suffer reputational harm. see business regulation, as supplemented by discussions of regulatory developments in our subsequently filed quarterly reports on form 10-q under the caption management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends regulatory developments. changes in tax laws or interpretations of such laws could reduce our earnings and materially impact our operations by increasing our corporate taxes and making some of our products less attractive to consumers changes in tax laws or interpretations of such laws could increase our corporate taxes and reduce our earnings. global budget deficits make it likely that governments' need for additional offsetting revenue will result in future tax proposals that will increase our effective tax rate or have product implications. however, it remains difficult to predict the timing and effect that future tax law changes could have on our earnings. such changes could not only directly impact our corporate taxes but also could adversely impact our products (including life insurance and retirement plans) by making some of our products less attractive to consumers. a shift away from life insurance and annuity contracts and other tax-deferred products by our customers would reduce our income from sales of these products, as well as the asset base upon which we earn investment income and fees, thereby reducing our earnings and potentially affecting the value of our deferred tax assets. 46 table of contents the precise impact of certain provisions of u.s. tax reform is still uncertain. for instance, many regulations under the new law have not been finalized or have only recently been finalized, including certain rules on international taxation. u.s. tax reform thus contains provisions whose meaning is subject to differing interpretations, and future guidance may materially differ from our current interpretation. see: management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations executive summary overview u.s. tax reform and note 18 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. litigation and regulatory investigations are increasingly common in our businesses and may result in significant financial losses and harm to our reputation we face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses. plaintiffs' lawyers may bring or are bringing class actions and individual suits alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product design, disclosure, administration, investments, denial or delay of benefits and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers. plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages. due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular points in time may often be difficult to ascertain. uncertainties can include how fact finders will evaluate documentary evidence and the credibility and effectiveness of witness testimony, and how trial and appellate courts will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal. in addition, a court or other governmental authority may interpret a law, regulation or accounting principle differently than we have, exposing us to different or additional risks. disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the relevant evidence and applicable law. a substantial legal liability or a significant federal, state or other regulatory action against us, as well as regulatory inquiries or investigations, could harm our reputation, result in material fines or penalties, result in significant legal costs and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation, regulatory action or investigation, our ability to attract new customers, retain our current customers and recruit and retain associates could be materially and adversely impacted. regulatory inquiries and litigation may also cause volatility in the price of stocks of companies in our industry. current claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and other proceedings against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. it is also possible that related or unrelated claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and proceedings may arise or be commenced in the future, and we could become subject to further investigations, lawsuits, or enforcement actions. increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings could result in new legal actions and precedents and industry-wide regulations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. material pending litigation and regulatory matters affecting us and risks to our business presented by these proceedings are discussed in note 20 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. updates are provided in the notes to our interim condensed consolidated financial statements regarding contingencies, commitments and guarantees included in our subsequently filed quarterly reports on form 10-q, as well as in part ii, item 1 ( legal proceedings ) of those quarterly reports. capital risks legal and regulatory restrictions may prevent us from paying dividends and repurchasing our stock at the level we wish there is no assurance that we will declare and pay any dividends or repurchase any of our common stock. dividends are subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements, future prospects, regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by metlife, inc.'s insurance subsidiaries and other factors deemed relevant by the board. common stock repurchases are also subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our capital position, liquidity, financial strength and credit ratings, general market conditions, the market price of our common stock compared to management's assessment of the stock's underlying value, applicable regulatory approvals, and other legal and accounting factors. 47 table of contents terms applicable to our floating rate non-cumulative preferred stock, series a (the series a preferred stock ), junior subordinated debentures and trust securities may restrict our ability to pay dividends or interest on those instruments in certain circumstances. metlife is also permitted under the terms of our junior subordinated debentures to suspend payments of interest during certain periods of time. such suspension of payments, whether required or optional, could cause dividend stopper provisions applicable under those and other instruments to restrict our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and repurchase our common stock in various situations, including situations where we may be experiencing financial stress, and may restrict our ability to pay dividends or interest on our preferred stock and junior subordinated debentures as well. replacement capital covenants may limit our ability to eliminate some of these restrictions through the repayment, redemption or purchase of junior subordinated debentures. under rule 10b5-1 of the exchange act, we may be restricted from repurchasing shares or entering into share repurchase programs when we are aware of material non-public information. these restrictions may limit our ability to repurchase shares from time to time, including but not limited to periods of significant corporate reorganization. see: management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources metlife, inc. liquidity and capital sources dividends from subsidiaries and dividend restrictions in note 15 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. as a holding company, metlife, inc. depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends, a major component of holding company free cash flow if the cash metlife, inc. receives from its subsidiaries through dividends and permitted payments under the tax sharing agreement with its subsidiaries is insufficient for it to fund its debt service and other holding company obligations, metlife, inc. may be required to raise cash through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of additional equity or the sale of assets. if metlife, inc.'s operating subsidiaries are unable to make expected dividend payments to metlife, inc., we may be unable to meet our free cash flow goals, and our ability to distribute cash to shareholders could be adversely affected. dividends to metlife, inc. by its insurance subsidiaries in excess of prescribed limits generally require insurance regulatory approval. in addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of dividends or other payments to metlife, inc. by its insurance subsidiaries if they determine that the payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. the payment of dividends and other distributions by insurance companies may also be limited by business conditions and rating agency considerations. furthermore, any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or advances by our foreign subsidiaries and branches to metlife, inc. could be subject to taxation, insurance regulatory or other restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdiction in which such foreign subsidiaries operate. net worth maintenance or other support agreements, which metlife, inc. or its subsidiaries may from time to time establish with their subsidiaries, may require metlife, inc. or such other supporting subsidiary to transfer capital to such supported subsidiary, thereby limiting capital that is available for other purposes. see: business regulation insurance regulation surplus and capital; management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources metlife, inc. liquidity and capital sources dividends from subsidiaries; management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources metlife, inc. liquidity and capital uses support agreements; and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations non-gaap and other financial disclosures. investment risks 48 table of contents defaults, downgrades, volatility or other events may adversely affect the investments we hold, resulting in a reduction in our net income and profitability a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening credit risk spreads, ratings downgrades or other events could adversely affect the issuers or guarantors of securities or the underlying collateral of structured securities that we hold, which could cause the estimated fair value of our fixed income securities portfolio and corresponding earnings to decline and the default rate of the fixed income securities in our investment portfolio to increase. similarly, a ratings downgrade affecting a security we hold could require us to hold more capital to support that security in order to maintain our rbc levels. our intent to sell, or our assessment of the likelihood that we will be required to sell, fixed income securities may adversely impact levels of writedowns or impairments. realized losses or impairments on these securities may have a material adverse effect on our net income in a particular quarterly or annual period. an increase in the default rate of our mortgage loan investments or fluctuations in their performance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. substantially all of our commercial and agricultural mortgage loans held for investment have balloon payment maturities, which may increase the risk of default. any geographic or property type concentration of our mortgage loans may have adverse effects on our investment portfolio and consequently on our results of operations or financial condition, and our ability to sell assets relating to such particular groups of related assets may be limited if other market participants are seeking to sell at the same time. in addition, legislation that would allow or require modifications to the terms of mortgage loans could have an adverse effect on our investment portfolio, results of operations or financial condition. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments mortgage loans. we may have difficulty selling certain holdings in our investment portfolio or in our securities lending program in a timely manner and realizing full value there may be a limited market for certain investments we hold in our investment portfolio, making them relatively illiquid. these include privately-placed fixed income securities, certain derivative instruments, mortgage loans, policy loans, direct financing and leveraged leases, other limited partnership interests, tax credit and renewable energy partnerships and real estate equity, including real estate joint ventures and funds. even some of our very high quality investments may experience reduced liquidity during periods of market volatility or disruption. if we are forced to sell certain assets in our investment portfolio during periods of market volatility or disruption, market prices may be lower than our carrying value in such investments, and we may have difficulty selling such investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell investments in a volatile or illiquid market for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize under normal market conditions, or both. this may result in realized losses that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, as well as our financial ratios, which could in turn affect compliance with our credit instruments and rating agency capital adequacy measures. we may face similar risks if we are required under our securities lending program to return significant amounts of cash collateral that we have invested. if we decrease the amount of our securities lending activities over time in response to such risks, the amount of net investment income generated by these activities will also likely decline. our requirements to pledge collateral or make payments related to declines in estimated fair value of derivatives transactions or specified assets in connection with otc-cleared and otc-bilateral transactions may adversely affect our liquidity, expose us to central clearinghouse and counterparty credit risk, and increase our costs of hedging the amount of collateral we may be required to pledge and the payments we may be required to make under our derivatives transactions may increase under certain circumstances. the occ, the federal reserve board, fdic, prudential regulators, the cftc, central clearinghouses and counterparties may restrict or eliminate certain types of eligible collateral or charge us to pledge such non-cash collateral, which would increase our costs and could adversely affect the liquidity of our investments and the composition of our investment portfolio. see: business regulation derivatives regulation; management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital uses pledged collateral; and note 9 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 49 table of contents changes to our valuation of securities and investments, the allowances and impairments taken on our investments, and our methodologies, estimations and assumptions could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition considerable judgment is often required in interpreting market data to develop estimates of fair value, and the use of different assumptions or valuation methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. during periods of market disruption, including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, or if trading becomes less frequent or market data becomes less observable, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities, and certain asset classes may become illiquid. in such cases, our valuations may be based on inputs that are less observable and more subjective, which may result in estimated fair values that significantly exceed the amount at which the investments may ultimately be sold. furthermore, rapidly changing credit and equity market conditions could materially and adversely impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements, and the period-to-period changes in estimated fair value could vary significantly. historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances. decreases in the estimated fair value of securities we hold may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see: management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments and notes 1 , 8 and 10 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. business risks differences between actual claims experience and underwriting and reserving assumptions may adversely affect our financial results our earnings significantly depend upon the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in setting prices for our products and establishing liabilities for future policy benefits and claims. to the extent that actual claims experience is less favorable than the underlying assumptions we used in establishing such liabilities, we could be required to reduce dac or voba, increase our liabilities or incur higher costs. we cannot determine precisely the amounts that we will ultimately pay to settle our liabilities, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future. we evaluate our actual experience and liabilities periodically based on accounting requirements, and that evaluation can result in a change to liability assumptions that may increase our liabilities. reserve estimates in some instances are also affected by our operating practices and procedures that are used, among other things, to support our assumptions with respect to the company's obligations to its policyholders and contractholders. these practices and procedures include, among other things, obtaining, accumulating, and filtering data, and our use of technology, such as database analysis and electronic communications. to the extent that these practices and procedures do not accurately produce the data to support our assumptions or cause us to change our assumptions, or to the extent that enhanced technological tools become available to us, such assumptions and procedures, as well as our reserves, may require adjustment. furthermore, to the extent that any of our operating practices and procedures do not accurately produce, or reproduce, data that we use to conduct any or all aspects of our business, such errors may negatively impact our business, reputation, results of operations, and financial condition. increased longevity due to improvements in medical technologies may require us to modify our assumptions, models, or reserves. additionally, increases in the prevalence and accuracy of genetic testing, or legislation or regulation regarding the use by insurers of information produced by such testing, may exacerbate adverse selection risks. such changes in medical technologies may thus have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. see: business policyholder liabilities; management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations policyholder liabilities; management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates deferred policy acquisition costs and value of business acquired; management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates derivatives; and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations consolidated results year ended december 31, 2018 compared with the year ended december 31, 2017 actuarial assumption review and certain other insurance adjustments. 50 table of contents the global nature of our operations exposes us to a variety of political, legal, operational, economic and other risks the global nature of our business operations exposes us to a wide range of political, legal, operational, economic and other risks, including but not limited to: nationalization or expropriation of assets; imposition of limits on foreign ownership of local companies; changes in laws (including insurance and tax laws and regulations), their application or interpretation, including retroactive application of such changes; political instability (including any government's inability to maintain operations or funding); economic or trade sanctions; dividend limitations; price controls; changes in applicable currency; currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds out of the countries in which we operate or converting local currencies we hold into u.s. dollars or other currencies; difficulty in enforcing contracts; imposition of regulations limiting our ability to distribute our products; and public or political criticism of our products, practices, and other aspects of our business and operations. such actions or events may negatively affect our business or reputation in the relevant jurisdictions and could indirectly affect our business or reputation in other jurisdictions as well. some of our operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets, where many of these risks are heightened. additionally, we face risks related to a number of issues or concerns that may impact our global operations, including but not limited to international trade agreements (e.g., nafta/usmca), uncertainties in intergovernmental organizations (e.g., the eu and the u.k.'s planned withdrawal from it), pension system reforms, and others. if we encounter labor problems with workers' associations or trade unions, or if any of our businesses is not successful, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training the sales force in that business, which may adversely affect our results of operations. expanding our operations to new businesses or jurisdictions may require considerable management time and start-up expenses before significant, if any, revenues and earnings are generated, which may reduce the amount of management and financial resources available for other uses. our operations in new or existing markets may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, which may negatively impact our operating margins and results of operations. see: business regulation; management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends financial and economic environment; management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment selected country and sector investments; and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 51 table of contents competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability competitive pressures, based on a number of factors including service, product features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, e-business capabilities, name recognition, and other factors, may adversely affect the persistency of our products and our ability to sell products in the future. we can be adversely affected by competition from other insurance companies, as well as non-insurance financial services companies such as banks, broker-dealers and asset managers, which may have a broader array of products, more competitive pricing, higher claims paying ability ratings, greater financial resources with which to compete, or pre-existing customer bases for financial services products. additionally, we may lose purchasers of group insurance products that are underwritten annually if they are able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors than they could by renewing coverage with us. these competitive pressures may adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell our products in the future. furthermore, the investment management and securities brokerage businesses have relatively low barriers to entry and continually attract new entrants. our customers and clients may engage other financial service providers, and the resulting loss of business could negatively affect our results of operations or financial condition. an increase in consolidation activity among banks and broker-dealers, through which the insurance industry distributes many of its individual products, may negatively impact the industry's sales, and such consolidation could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market insurance products to our current customer base or to expand our customer base. consolidation of distributors or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us. in addition, legislative and other changes affecting the regulatory environment for our business may have the effect of supporting or burdening some aspects of or actors in the financial services industry more than others, which could adversely affect our competitive position within the life insurance industry and within the broader financial services industry. see: business competition; business regulation; and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends competitive pressures. technological changes may present new and intensified challenges to our business recent and future changes in technology may present us with new challenges and may intensify many of the challenges that we already face. for example, as a result of the availability of new technological tools for data collection and analysis, we have access to an increasing amount of data, from an increasing variety of sources, regarding deaths of our policyholders and annuitants. we may be unable to accurately or completely process this increased volume of information within the time periods required by applicable standards. furthermore, the additional information that we obtain as a result of technological improvements may require us to modify our assumptions, models, or reserves. changes in technology related to collection and analysis of data regarding customers could, in these ways or others, expose us to regulatory or legal actions and may have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations, and financial condition. technological changes may impact the ways in which we interact with our customers. as technology evolves, customers may expect increased choices in the ways in which they interact with us, and we may be required to redesign certain of our products to meet changing customer preferences. our distribution channels may become more automated in order to provide customers with increased flexibility to access our services and products at times and places of their choosing. such changes may require significant costs to implement. if we are unsuccessful in implementing such changes, our competitive position may be harmed and our relationships with our distribution partners may suffer. technological advances may also impact the composition and results of our investment portfolio. for example, changes in energy technology may impact the relative attractiveness of investments in a variety of energy sources, and increasing consumer preferences for e-commerce may negatively impact the profitability of retail and commercial real estate. if we are unable to adjust our investments in reaction to such changes, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. 52 table of contents catastrophes may adversely impact liabilities for policyholder claims and reinsurance availability claims resulting from catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition. in addition, catastrophic events could harm the financial condition of issuers of obligations we hold in our investment portfolio, resulting in impairments to these obligations, and could also harm the financial condition of our reinsurers, thereby increasing the probability of default on reinsurance recoveries. large-scale catastrophic events may also reduce the overall level of economic activity in affected countries, which could hurt our business and the value of our investments or our ability to write new business. it is possible that increases in the value of property, caused by inflation or other factors, and geographic concentration of insured lives or property, could increase the severity of claims we receive from future catastrophic events. due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence, timing and severity of catastrophic events. our life insurance operations face the risk of catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that causes a large number of deaths. a significant pandemic could have a major impact on the global economy and financial markets or could result in disruption to our business operations. the effectiveness of external parties, including governmental and non-governmental organizations, in combating the spread and severity of such a pandemic is outside of our control and could have a material impact on the losses we experience. a localized event that affects the workplace of one or more of our group insurance customers could cause a significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims. these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition in any period. our property &amp; casualty businesses will likely experience, from time to time, catastrophe losses as a result of various events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather, fires and man-made events such as terrorist attacks, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition in any period. climate change may increase the frequency and severity of weather related disasters and pandemics. in addition, climate change regulation may affect the prospects of companies and other entities whose securities we hold or our willingness to continue to hold their securities. it may also impact other counterparties, including reinsurers, and affect the value of our investments, including real estate investments. we cannot predict the long-term impacts on us from climate change or related regulation. consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we establish liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. we cannot be certain that the liabilities we have established will be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities. state legislation that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage risk, such as legislation restricting an insurer's ability to withdraw from catastrophe-prone areas or requiring regulatory approval of internal reinsurance transactions, may impede our efforts to manage our catastrophe risk. our ability to manage catastrophe risk also depends in part on our ability to obtain catastrophe reinsurance, which may not be available at commercially acceptable rates, or at all, in the future. a catastrophic event could render inadequate the funds of guaranty associations or similar organizations, and we may be called upon to contribute additional amounts, which may have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. see: business regulation insurance regulation guaranty associations and similar arrangements; management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations executive summary other key information hurricanes; and note 20 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. we may need to fund deficiencies in our closed block; assets allocated to the closed block benefit only the holders of closed block policies the closed block assets established in connection with the demutualization of mlic, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block may not be sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies. if they are not, we must fund the shortfall. even if they are sufficient, we may choose, for competitive reasons, to support policyholder dividend payments with our general account funds. such actions may reduce funds that would otherwise be available to us for other uses and could thus adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. see note 7 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 53 table of contents we may be required to recognize an impairment of our goodwill or other long-lived assets or to establish a valuation allowance against our deferred income tax assets if the performance of our businesses are negatively impacted by prolonged market declines or other factors, the estimated fair value of the reporting units on which we perform our goodwill impairment testing may be reduced, which may result in a determination that the goodwill has been impaired. in such case, we must write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. such write-downs could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. similarly, if impairment testing of long-lived assets, including but not limited to real estate, indicates that we will be unable to recover the carrying amount of such an asset, we must write down the asset, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. management may determine that it is more likely than not that any particular deferred income tax asset will not be realized, based on factors such as the performance of the business including the ability to generate future taxable income. in such circumstance, a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. in addition, changes in the corporate tax rates could affect the value of our deferred tax assets and may require a write-off of some of those assets. see: management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates goodwill; management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates income taxes; management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations executive summary overview u.s. tax reform; and notes 1 and 11 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. we may be required to accelerate the amortization of or impair dac, dsi or voba dac, deferred sales inducements ( dsi ) and voba for certain products are amortized in proportion to actual and expected gross profits or margins. low investment returns, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest crediting rates, dividends paid to policyholders, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties and certain economic variables, such as inflation may negatively affect the amount of future gross profit or margins. if actual gross profits or margins are less than originally expected, then the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to net income. significant or sustained equity market declines or significantly lower spreads could result in an acceleration of amortization of dac, dsi and voba, resulting in a charge to net income. such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see: management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates deferred policy acquisition costs and value of business acquired; management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends impact of a sustained low interest rate environment; and note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. guarantees within certain products may decrease our earnings, increase the volatility of our results, result in higher risk management costs and expose us to increased counterparty risk the valuation of our liabilities associated with products that include guaranteed benefits, including guaranteed minimum death benefits ( gmdbs ) (including but not limited to no-lapse guarantee benefits), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits ( gmwbs ), guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits ( gmabs ), guaranteed minimum income benefits ( gmibs ), and minimum crediting rate features could increase in the event of significant and sustained downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, or reduced interest rates. an increase in these liabilities would result in a decrease in our net income. 54 table of contents the derivatives and other risk management strategies we use to hedge the economic exposure to these liabilities that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment may result in volatility in the results of our operations, including net income, to the extent the financial measurement of the hedged liability does not fully reflect the sensitivity to the underlying economic exposure. the risk management strategies and hedging instruments that we use to directly mitigate the volatility in net income associated with certain of these liabilities, including the use of reinsurance and derivatives, may not effectively offset the costs of guarantees and may not be completely effective. furthermore, changes in policyholder behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events, may produce economic losses not addressed by the risk management techniques employed. these factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including net income, capitalization, financial condition or liquidity, including our ability to receive dividends from our operating insurance companies. see: management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations policyholder liabilities variable annuity guarantees and note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. operational risks our risk management policies and procedures or our models may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk our enterprise risk management policies and procedures may not be sufficiently comprehensive and may not identify every risk to which we are exposed. many of our methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior to model or project potential future exposure. models used by our business are based on assumptions, projections and data that may be inaccurate. business or other decisions, including determination of reserves, based on incorrect or misused model output and reports could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. models used by our business may be misspecified for their intended purpose, may be misused, may not operate properly, and may contain errors related to model inputs, data, assumptions, calculations, or output. we perform model reviews that could give rise to adjustments to models that may adversely impact our results of operations. additionally, our model review process may not adequately identify or remediate errors in or related to our models. as a result, our models may not fully predict future exposures or correctly reflect past experience, which may have a material impact on our business, reputation, results of operations or financial condition. other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. this information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. furthermore, there can be no assurance that we can effectively review and monitor all risks or that all of our associates will follow our risk management policies and procedures, nor can there be any assurance that our risk management policies and procedures will enable us to accurately identify all risks and limit our exposures based on our assessments. in addition, we may have to implement more extensive and perhaps different risk management policies and procedures in the future due to legal and regulatory requirements, which could result in increased costs and may adversely affect our results of operations. see: business regulation insurance regulation and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our policies and procedures may be insufficient to protect us from certain operational risks we are highly dependent on our ability to process a large number of complex transactions across our businesses. the large number of transactions we process, and complexity of our administrative systems, makes it possible that errors will occasionally occur, and the controls and procedures we have in place to prevent such errors may not be entirely effective. the occurrence of mistakes, particularly significant ones, can subject us to claims from our customers and may have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations, or financial condition. we are dependent on our group product customers or their employees for certain information to accurately review and pay claims on many of our products. if we are unable to obtain necessary and accurate information from our customers, we may be unable to provide or verify coverage and to pay claims, or we may pay claims without accurate or complete documentation, which may have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations, or financial condition. 55 table of contents from time to time, we rely on vendors or other service providers for services related to the administration of our products, investment management, or other business operations. to the extent our efforts to ensure such vendors' controls meet our standards are inadequate, our vendors fail to perform their services accurately or timely, the exchange of information between us and our vendors is imperfect, or our vendors suffer financial or reputational distress, any errors, misconduct, or discontinuation of services that result could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations, or financial condition. from time to time, our administrative and operational practices may fail to timely and completely identify all of the property that we are legally required to escheat to a variety of jurisdictions as unclaimed property. as a result, we may be subject to unexpected charges, reserve strengthening, and expenses, as well as regulatory examinations, penalties or other fines. each of these affects may harm our reputation or regulatory relationships that may harm our business, financial condition, or results of operations. our practices and procedures are evaluated periodically and from time to time may limit our efforts to contact all of our customers, which may result in delayed, untimely, or missed customer payments that may have a material adverse effect on the company, including reputational harm. we are subject to risks related to fraud, including fraud committed by our associates, as well as fraud through claims and other processes. our policies and procedures may be ineffective in preventing, detecting or mitigating fraud and other illegal or improper acts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, or results of operations. if our policies and practices to attract, motivate and retain employees, to develop talent, and to plan for management succession are not effective, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. we cannot be certain that we will not identify control deficiencies or material weaknesses in the future. if we identify future control deficiencies or material weaknesses, these may lead to additional adverse effects on our business, our reputation, our results of operations, and the market price of our common stock. see business regulation unclaimed property. a failure in our cybersecurity or other information security systems or our disaster recovery plans, or those of our suppliers, could result in a loss or disclosure of confidential information, damage to our reputation and impairment of our ability to conduct business effectively we rely on the effective operation of our and our suppliers' computer systems throughout our business for a variety of functions, including processing claims, transactions and applications, providing information to customers and distributors, performing actuarial analyses and maintaining financial records. we also retain confidential and proprietary information on our and our suppliers' computer systems, and we rely on sophisticated technologies to maintain the security of that information. our and our suppliers' computer systems are subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized or fraudulent access, social engineering, phishing, human error, cyberattacks or other computer-related penetrations, and such threats have increased over recent periods. the administrative and technical controls and other preventive actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber-incidents and protect our information technology may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks, compromised credentials, fraud, other security breaches or other unauthorized access to our and our suppliers' computer systems. in some cases, such cyber-incidents may not be immediately detected. such incidents may impede or interrupt our business operations and could adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. in the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, epidemic, industrial accident, blackout, computer virus, terrorist attack, cyberattack or war, unanticipated problems with our and our suppliers' disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial position, particularly if those problems affect our and our suppliers' computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data. in addition, if a significant number of our managers, or associates generally, are unavailable following a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. these interruptions also may interfere with our suppliers' ability to provide goods and services and our associates' ability to perform their job responsibilities. the failure of our and our suppliers' computer systems or our and our suppliers' disaster recovery plans for any reason, or any such failure on the part of vendors, distributors, and other third parties that provide operational or information technology services to us, could cause significant interruptions in our operations and result in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to our customers. such a failure could harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory investigations and sanctions, expose us to legal claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. insurance for cyber liability, operational and other risks relating to our business and systems may not be sufficient to protect us against such losses or may become less readily available or more expensive, which could adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, increased scrutiny of cybersecurity issues by regulators, including new laws or regulations, could result in increased compliance costs. 56 table of contents there can be no assurance that our information security policies and systems in place can prevent unauthorized access, use or disclosure of confidential information, including nonpublic personal information, nor can we be certain that we will be able to reliably access all of the documents and records in the information storage systems we use, whether electronic or physical. in some circumstances, we may fail to obtain or maintain all of the records we need to accurately and timely administer, and establish appropriate reserves for benefits and claims with respect to, our products, which failure could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations or our financial condition. we are continuously evaluating and enhancing systems and creating new systems and processes as our business depends on our ability to maintain and improve our technology systems. due to the complexity and interconnectedness of our systems and processes, these changes, as well as changes designed to update and enhance our protective measures to address new threats, increase the risk of a system or process failure or the creation of a gap in our security measures. any such failure or gap could adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations or financial condition. any failure to protect the confidentiality of client information could adversely affect our reputation or result in legal or regulatory penalties if we or our suppliers fail to maintain adequate internal controls or if our or our suppliers' associates fail to comply with relevant policies and procedures, misappropriation or intentional or unintentional inappropriate disclosure or misuse of our clients' confidential personal information could occur. such internal control inadequacies or non-compliance could materially damage our reputation or lead to civil or criminal penalties, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. increased scrutiny of privacy issues by regulators, including new laws or regulations, could result in increased compliance costs. in addition, any inquiries from u.s. state, federal or other regulators regarding the use of big data techniques could result in harm to our reputation, and any limitations could have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. see business regulation cybersecurity and privacy regulation. changes in accounting standards may adversely affect our financial statements from time to time, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the financial accounting standards board (the fasb ) and the ifrs foundation. we cannot always meaningfully assess the effects of such new or revised accounting standards on our financial statements. our adoption of future accounting standards could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. see note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. our associates may take excessive risks, which could negatively affect our financial condition and business the associates who conduct our business, including executive officers and other members of management, sales managers, investment professionals, product managers, sales agents, wholesalers, underwriters, and other associates, may take excessive risks in a wide variety of business decisions, including setting underwriting guidelines and standards, determining claims, designing and pricing products, determining what assets to purchase for investment and when to sell them, evaluating business opportunities, and other decisions. the design and implementation of our compensation programs and practices may not be effective in deterring our associates from taking excessive risks, and our controls and procedures may not be sufficient to monitor associates' business decisions, prevent excessive risk-taking, or prevent associate misconduct. if our associates take excessive risks, the impact of those risks could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition and business operations. we may experience difficulty in marketing and distributing products through our distribution channels third-party distributors, through whom we primarily distribute our products, may suspend, alter, reduce or terminate their distribution relationships with us for various reasons, including changes in our distribution strategy, adverse developments in our business, adverse rating agency actions or concerns about market-related risks. there can be no assurance that the terms of our agreements with third-party distributors will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. key distribution partners may merge, change their business models in ways that affect how our products are sold, or terminate their distribution contracts with us, and new distribution channels could emerge, and such developments could adversely impact the effectiveness of our distribution efforts. consolidation of distributors and other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us. interruptions or changes to our relationships with distributors could materially hinder our ability to market our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. we may not be able to monitor or control the manner in which unaffiliated firms or agents distribute our products. if our products are distributed by such firms or agents in an inappropriate manner, or to customers for whom they are unsuitable, we may be subject to reputational harm, regulatory fines and other harm to our business. 57 table of contents changes in our assumptions used for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability changes in our assumptions regarding discount rates, rates of return on plan assets, mortality rates, compensation levels and medical inflation may adversely affect our estimates of pension and other postretirement benefit plan experience, which could result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. see note 17 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims contractual rights with third parties and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws may be insufficient to prevent third parties from infringing on or misappropriating our intellectual property. we may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. this may result in a significant diversion of resources, and our efforts may not prove successful. the inability to secure or protect our intellectual property assets could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete with other insurers and financial institutions. in addition, we may be subject to claims by third parties for: patent, trademark or copyright infringement; breach of patent, trademark or copyright license usage rights; or misappropriation of trade secrets. any such claims or resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability for damages. if we are found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party patent or other intellectual property right, we could in some circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or from utilizing and benefiting from certain patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties or implement a costly alternative. any of these scenarios could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 58 table of contents risks related to acquisitions, dispositions or other structural changes we could face difficulties, unforeseen liabilities, asset impairments or rating actions arising from business acquisitions or integrating and managing growth of such businesses, dispositions of businesses, or legal entity reorganizations acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, joint ventures, and other structural changes expose us to a number of risks arising from, among other factors: potential difficulties achieving projected financial results, including the costs and benefits of integration or deconsolidation, due to macroeconomic, business, demographic, actuarial, regulatory, or political factors; unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments; the scope and duration of rights to indemnification for losses, and the recoverability of such indemnification; the use of capital that could be used for other purposes; liquidity requirements; reactions of ratings agencies, shareholders, policyholders and contractholders, distributors, suppliers and other contractual counterparties; regulatory requirements that could impact our operations or capital requirements; changes in statutory or u.s. gaap accounting principles, practices or policies; dedication of management resources that could otherwise be deployed to other business, or distraction of key personnel from maximizing business value; providing or receiving transition services that may disrupt operations or impose liabilities or restrictions on us; loss of key personnel or difficulties recruiting personnel; loss of customers; loss of distribution resources or suppliers; inefficiencies as we integrate operations and address differences in cultural, management, information, compliance and financial systems and procedures; and impacts on internal controls and procedures. the success with which we are able to conduct business through joint ventures, including exclusive or semi-exclusive distribution relationships, will depend on our ability to manage a variety of issues, including the following: entering into joint ventures with other companies or government sponsored entities in various international markets, including joint ventures where we have a lesser degree of control over the business operation, may expose us to additional operational, financial, legal or compliance risks. dependence on a joint venture counterparty for capital, product distribution, local market knowledge, or other resources, or dependence on a joint venture counterparty due to limits on our ownership levels or distribution exclusivity requirements under local laws or regulations, may reduce our control over, our financial returns from, or the value of a joint venture. if we are unable to effectively cooperate with joint venture counterparties, or a joint venture counterparty fails to meet its obligations under the joint venture arrangement, encounters financial difficulty, or elects to alter, modify or terminate the relationship, we may be unable to exercise management control or influence over these joint venture operations and our ability to achieve our objectives and our results of operations may be negatively impacted, thereby impairing our investment. reorganizing or consolidating the legal entities through which we conduct business may raise similar risks. the success with which we are able to realize benefits from legal entity reorganizations will also depend on our ability to manage a variety of issues, including regulatory approvals, modification of our operations and changes to our investment portfolios or derivatives hedging activities. any of these risks, if realized, could prevent us from achieving the benefits we expect or could otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 59 table of contents see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations acquisitions and dispositions. we are subject to risks related to our separation from and continuing relationship with brighthouse we remain subject to certain risks related to our separation from and continuing relationship with brighthouse. there can be no assurance that we will realize any or all of the expected strategic, financial, operational or other benefits of the separation of brighthouse, and a failure to realize expected benefits of the separation could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our agreements with brighthouse, and the tax treatment of the separation, also expose us to risk. in addition, we cannot guarantee that brighthouse will be successful as a standalone entity. if brighthouse is not successful, plaintiffs could assert a variety of claims against us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see: business regulation brighthouse separation tax treatment and note 3 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. governance risks metlife, inc.'s board of directors may influence the outcome of stockholder votes on many matters due to the voting provisions of the metlife policyholder trust as a result of the voting provisions of the metlife policyholder trust and the number of shares held by it, the board of directors may be able to influence the outcome of votes on matters submitted to a vote of stockholders, excluding certain fundamental corporate actions, so long as the trust holds a substantial number of shares of common stock. additionally, if a vote concerns certain fundamental corporate actions, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held by the trust in proportion to instructions it receives from trust beneficiaries, which will give disproportionate weight to the instructions actually given by trust beneficiaries. the winding up of the trust must commence within 90 days after we notify the trustee that the trust holds 10% or less of metlife's outstanding common stock. when the trust is terminated and the shares of common stock then held in the trust are distributed to the respective trust beneficiaries, we may incur costs related to the termination of the trust, such as regulatory filings and mailings to trust beneficiaries or others, and afterward we may incur costs related to an increase in the number of shareholders, such as increased mailing and proxy solicitation expenses. after such a distribution, the addition of the respective trust beneficiaries to our shareholder base with full voting rights may have a significant impact on matters brought to a stockholder vote and other aspects of our corporate governance. state laws, federal laws, and our certificate of incorporation our by-laws may delay, deter or prevent takeovers and business combinations that stockholders might consider in their best interests state laws, federal laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. for instance, such restrictions may prevent stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of metlife, inc.'s common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of metlife, inc.'s common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. 60 table of contents any person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would face various regulatory obstacles, including: applicable u.s. state or foreign insurance laws and regulations that may delay or impede a business combination involving us by prohibiting an entity from acquiring control of an insurance company without the prior approval of its domestic insurance regulator; if the acquiring entity is a bank or non-bank sifi, dodd-frank provisions that restrict or impede consolidations, mergers and acquisitions by systemically significant firms; provisions of the investment company act that require approval by the contract owners of our variable contracts in order to effectuate a change of control of any affiliated investment adviser to a mutual fund underlying our variable contracts; finra approval requirements for a change of control of any registered broker-dealer; provisions of the delaware general corporation law that may affect the ability of an interested stockholder to engage in certain business combinations; and applicable antitrust and competition laws. in addition, provisions of metlife, inc.'s certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests or may otherwise adversely affect prevailing market prices for metlife, inc.'s common stock, including a prohibition on the calling of special meetings or action by written consent by stockholders and advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates to the board of directors and consideration of stockholder proposals. additionally, stockholders may change metlife, inc.'s corporate governance through amendments to metlife, inc.'s certificate of incorporation or by-laws in ways that make it more difficult for the board of directors to protect stockholders' interests, for example, if the board of directors is presented with an acquisition proposal that undervalues the company. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 171 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management we have an integrated process for managing risk, which we conduct through multiple board and senior management committees (financial and non-financial) across the grm, alm, finance, treasury, investments and business segment departments. the risk committee structure is designed to provide a consolidated enterprise-wide assessment and management of risk. the erc is responsible for reviewing all material risks to the enterprise and deciding on actions, if necessary, in the event risks exceed desired tolerances, taking into consideration industry best practices and the current environment to resolve or mitigate those risks. additional committees at the metlife, inc. and subsidiary insurance company level manage capital and risk positions and establish corporate business standards. global risk management independent from the lines of business, the centralized grm, led by the cro, coordinates across all committees to ensure that all material risks are properly identified, measured, aggregated, managed and reported across the company. the cro reports to the chief executive officer ( ceo ) and is primarily responsible for maintaining and communicating the company's enterprise risk policies and for monitoring and analyzing all material risks. 171 table of contents grm considers and monitors a full range of risks against the company's solvency, liquidity, earnings, business operations and reputation. grm's primary responsibilities consist of: implementing a corporate risk framework, which outlines our enterprise approach for managing risk; developing policies and procedures for identifying, managing, measuring, monitoring and controlling those risks identified in the corporate risk framework; coordinating own risk and solvency assessments for board, senior management and regulator use; establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels; recommending risk appetite statements and investment general authorizations to the board; measuring capital on an economic basis; recommending capital allocations on an economic capital basis; and reporting to (i) the finance and risk committee of metlife, inc.'s board of directors; (ii) the investment committee of metlife, inc.'s board of directors; (iii) the compensation committee of metlife, inc.'s board of directors; and (iv) the financial and non-financial senior management committees on various aspects of risk. asset/liability management we actively manage our assets using an approach that is liability driven and balances quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity, concentration and investment return. the goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income tax, risk-adjusted investment income and risk-adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are reasonably aligned on a cash flow and duration basis. the alm process is the shared responsibility of the alm, grm, and investments departments, with the engagement of senior members of the business segments, and is governed by the alm committees. the alm committees' duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios investment guidelines and limits, approving significant portfolio and alm strategies and providing oversight of the alm process. the directives of the alm committees are carried out and monitored through alm working groups which are set up to manage risk by geography, product or portfolio type. the alm steering committee oversees the activities of the underlying alm committees and working groups. the alm steering committee reports to the erc. we establish portfolio guidelines that define ranges and limits related to asset allocation, interest rate risk, liquidity, concentration and other risks for each major business segment, legal entity or insurance product group. these guidelines support implementation of investment strategies used to adequately fund our liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. we also establish hedging programs and associated investment portfolios for different blocks of business. the alm working groups monitor these strategies and programs through regular review of portfolio metrics, such as effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, value at risk, market sensitivities (to interest rates, equity market levels, equity volatility, and foreign exchange rates), stress scenario payoffs, liquidity, foreign exchange, asset sector concentration and credit quality. market risk exposures we regularly analyze our exposure to interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market price risk. as a result of that analysis, we have determined that the estimated fair values of certain assets and liabilities are materially exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets. we have exposure to market risk through our insurance operations and investment activities. for purposes of this disclosure, market risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets. interest rates our exposure to interest rate changes results most significantly from our holdings of fixed maturity securities, as well as our interest rate sensitive liabilities. the fixed maturity securities afs include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities and abs, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium- and long-term interest rates. the interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include debt, policyholder account balances related to certain investment type contracts, and embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits which have the same type of interest rate exposure (medium- and long-term interest rates) as fixed maturity securities afs. the interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure exclude a significant portion of the liabilities relating to insurance contracts. see risk factors economic environment and capital markets risks difficult economic conditions may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 172 table of contents foreign currency exchange rates our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar results from our holdings in non-u.s. dollar denominated fixed maturity and equity securities, mortgage loans, and certain liabilities, as well as through our investments in foreign subsidiaries. the foreign currency exchange rate liabilities for purposes of this disclosure exclude a significant portion of the liabilities relating to insurance contracts. the principal currencies that create foreign currency exchange rate risk in our investment portfolios and liabilities are the euro, the japanese yen and the british pound. selectively, we use u.s. dollar assets to support certain long-duration foreign currency liabilities. through our investments in foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures, we are primarily exposed to the japanese yen, the euro, the australian dollar, the british pound, the mexican peso, the chilean peso and the korean won. in addition to hedging with foreign currency swaps, forwards and options, local surplus in some countries may be held entirely or in part in u.s. dollar assets, which further minimize exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. we have matched much of our foreign currency liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency assets, thereby reducing our risk to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. see risk factors economic environment and capital markets risks difficult economic conditions may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. equity market along with investments in equity securities, we have exposure to equity market risk through certain liabilities that involve long-term guarantees on equity performance such as embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits and certain policyholder account balances. equity exposures associated with limited partnership interests are excluded from this discussion as they are not considered financial instruments under gaap. management of market risk exposures we use a variety of strategies to manage interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market risk, including the use of derivatives. interest rate risk management to manage interest rate risk, we analyze interest rate risk using various models, including multi-scenario cash flow projection models that forecast cash flows of the liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivatives. these projections involve evaluating the potential gain or loss on most of our in-force business under various increasing and decreasing interest rate environments. the nydfs regulations require that we perform some of these analyses annually as part of our review of the sufficiency of our regulatory reserves. for several of our legal entities, we maintain segmented operating and surplus asset portfolios for the purpose of alm and the allocation of investment income to product lines. in the u.s., for each segment, invested assets greater than or equal to the gaap liabilities net of certain non-invested assets allocated to the segment are maintained, with any excess allocated to corporate &amp; other. the business segments may reflect differences in legal entity, statutory line of business and any product market characteristic which may drive a distinct investment strategy with respect to duration, liquidity or credit quality of the invested assets. certain smaller entities make use of unsegmented general accounts for which the investment strategy reflects the aggregate characteristics of liabilities in those entities. we measure relative sensitivities of the value of our assets and liabilities to changes in key assumptions utilizing internal models. these models reflect specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting rates. in addition, these models include asset cash flow projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage loan prepayments and defaults. we employ product design, pricing and alm strategies to reduce the potential effects of interest rate movements. product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products and the ability to reset crediting rates for certain products. alm strategies include the use of derivatives. we also use reinsurance to mitigate interest rate risk. we also use common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and liability values to changes in interest rates. in computing the duration of liabilities, we consider all policyholder guarantees and how we intend to set indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or dividends. each asset portfolio or portfolio group has a duration target based on the liability duration and the investment objectives of that portfolio. where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity of available assets, we may support such liabilities with equity investments, derivatives or interest rate curve mismatch strategies. 173 table of contents foreign currency exchange rate risk management metlife has a well-established enterprise foreign exchange ( fx ) risk policy to manage foreign currency exchange rate exposures within its risk tolerance. in general, investments backing specific liabilities are currency matched. this is achieved through direct investments in matching currency or through the use of fx derivatives. enterprise fx risk limits are established by the erc. management of each of our segments, with oversight from our fx risk committee and the respective alm committee for the segment, is responsible for managing any foreign currency exchange rate exposure. we use foreign currency swaps, forwards and options to mitigate the liability exposure, risk of loss and financial statement volatility associated with our investments in foreign subsidiaries, foreign currency denominated fixed income investments and the sale of certain insurance products. equity market risk management we manage equity market risk on an integrated basis with other risks through our alm strategies, including the dynamic hedging of certain variable annuity guarantee benefits, as well as reinsurance, in order to limit losses, minimize exposure to large risks, and provide additional capacity for future growth. we also manage equity market risk exposure in our investment portfolio through the use of derivatives. these derivatives include exchange-traded equity futures, equity index options contracts, total rate of return swaps and equity variance swaps. this risk is managed by our alm unit in partnership with the investments department. hedging activities we use derivative contracts primarily to hedge a wide range of risks including interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and equity market risk. derivative hedges are designed to reduce risk on an economic basis while considering their impact on financial results under different accounting regimes, including u.s. gaap and local statutory accounting. our derivative hedge programs vary depending on the type of risk being hedged. some hedge programs are asset or liability specific while others are portfolio hedges that reduce risk related to a group of liabilities or assets. our use of derivatives by major hedge programs is as follows: risks related to guarantee benefits we use a wide range of derivative contracts to mitigate the risk associated with living guarantee benefits. these derivatives include equity and interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, currency futures/forwards, equity indexed options, total rate of return swaps, interest rate option contracts and equity variance swaps. minimum interest rate guarantees for certain liability contracts, we provide the contractholder a guaranteed minimum interest rate. these contracts include certain fixed annuities and other insurance liabilities. we purchase interest rate caps and floors to reduce risk associated with these liability guarantees. reinvestment risk in long-duration liability contracts derivatives are used to hedge interest rate risk related to certain long-duration liability contracts. hedges include interest rate swaps and swaptions. foreign currency exchange rate risk we use currency swaps, forwards and options to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risk. these hedges are generally used to swap foreign currency denominated bonds, investments in foreign subsidiaries or equity market exposures to u.s. dollars. our foreign subsidiaries also use these hedges to swap non-local currency assets to local currency, to match liabilities . general alm hedging strategies in the ordinary course of managing our asset/liability risks, we use interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, and inflation swaps. these hedges are designed to reduce interest rate risk or inflation risk related to the existing assets or liabilities or related to expected future cash flows. 174 table of contents risk measurement: sensitivity analysis we measure market risk related to our market sensitive assets and liabilities based on changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity market prices utilizing a sensitivity analysis. for purposes of this disclosure, a significant portion of the liabilities relating to insurance contracts is excluded, as discussed further below. this analysis estimates the potential changes in estimated fair value based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity market prices. we believe that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the near term. in performing the analysis summarized below, we used market rates at december 31, 2018 . the sensitivity analysis separately calculates each of our market risk exposures (interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market) relating to our assets and liabilities. we modeled the impact of changes in market rates and prices on the estimated fair values of our market sensitive assets and liabilities as follows: the net present values of our interest rate sensitive exposures resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates; the u.s. dollar equivalent estimated fair values of our foreign currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase in the value of the u.s. dollar compared to all foreign currencies or decrease in the value of the u.s. dollar compared to all foreign currencies) in foreign currency exchange rates; and the estimated fair value of our equity positions due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity market prices. the sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as predictive of our future financial performance. we cannot ensure that our actual losses in any particular period will not exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. limitations related to this sensitivity analysis include: interest sensitive and foreign currency exchange sensitive liabilities do not include $203.3 billion , at carrying value, of insurance contracts. management believes that the changes in the economic value of those contracts under changing interest rates and changing foreign currency exchange rates would offset a significant portion of the fair value changes of interest sensitive and foreign currency exchange rate sensitive assets; the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgage loans; sensitivities do not include the impact on asset or liability valuation of changes in market liquidity or changes in market credit spreads; foreign currency risk is not isolated for certain embedded derivatives within host asset and liability contracts, as the risk on these instruments is reflected as equity; for the derivatives that qualify as hedges, and for certain other assets such as mortgage loans, the impact on reported earnings may be materially different from the change in market values; the analysis excludes liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts and real estate holdings; and the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains unchanged throughout the period. accordingly, we use such models as tools and not as substitutes for the experience and judgment of our management. based on our analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and prices, we have determined that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the estimated fair value of certain assets and liabilities from interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market exposures. the table below illustrates the potential loss in estimated fair value for each market risk exposure of our market sensitive assets and liabilities at: december 31, 2018 (in millions) interest rate risk $ 5,656 foreign currency exchange rate risk $ 7,807 equity market risk $ (1 ) __________________ 175 table of contents the risk sensitivities derived used a 10% increase to interest rates, a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies, and a 10% increase in equity prices. the potential losses in estimated fair value presented are for non-trading securities. the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our interest sensitive financial instruments due to a 10% increase in interest rates by type of asset or liability at: december 31, 2018 notional amount estimated fair value (1) assuming a 10% increase in interest rates (in millions) assets fixed maturity securities afs $ 298,265 $ (5,180 ) equity securities $ 1,440 fvo securities $ 871 (8 ) mortgage loans $ 76,379 (816 ) policy loans $ 11,366 (131 ) short-term investments $ 3,937 (5 ) other invested assets $ 1,413 cash and cash equivalents $ 15,821 accrued investment income $ 3,582 premiums, reinsurance and other receivables $ 3,797 (23 ) other assets $ 350 (4 ) embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) $ 71 total assets $ (6,167 ) liabilities (3) policyholder account balances $ 110,313 $ 757 payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions $ 24,794 short-term debt $ 268 long-term debt $ 13,611 342 collateral financing arrangement $ 853 junior subordinated debt securities $ 3,738 104 other liabilities $ 3,518 68 embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) $ 810 161 total liabilities $ 1,432 derivative instruments interest rate swaps $ 60,852 $ 3,958 $ (565 ) interest rate floors $ 12,701 $ 102 (26 ) interest rate caps $ 54,575 $ 153 62 interest rate futures $ 2,353 $ (2 ) 8 interest rate options $ 26,690 $ 416 (91 ) interest rate forwards $ 3,256 $ (230 ) (121 ) interest rate total return swaps $ 1,048 $ 31 (54 ) synthetic gics $ 25,700 $ foreign currency swaps $ 48,552 $ 445 (139 ) foreign currency forwards $ 16,517 $ (28 ) 22 currency futures $ 847 $ 4 currency options $ 7,177 $ (192 ) (1 ) credit default swaps $ 13,294 $ 68 equity futures $ 2,992 $ (64 ) (1 ) equity index options $ 27,707 $ 334 (15 ) equity variance swaps $ 2,269 $ (47 ) equity total return swaps $ 929 $ 91 total derivative instruments $ (921 ) net change $ (5,656 ) __________________ (1) separate account assets and liabilities and unit-linked investments and associated policyholder account balances, which are interest rate sensitive, are not included herein as any interest rate risk is borne by the contractholder, notwithstanding any general account guarantees which are included within embedded derivatives (see footnote (2) below) or included within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances (see footnote (3) below). fvo securities and long-term debt exclude $4 million and $5 million, respectively, related to cses. 176 table of contents (2) embedded derivatives are recognized on the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. (3) excludes $ 203.3 billion of liabilities, at carrying value, pursuant to insurance contracts reported within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances. these liabilities would economically offset a significant portion of the net change in fair value of our financial instruments resulting from a 10% increase in interest rates. sensitivity to rising interest rates decreased $206 million, or 4%, to $5.7 billion at december 31, 2018 from $5.9 billion at december 31, 2017. the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our portfolio due to a 10% increase in the u.s. dollar compared to all foreign currencies at: december 31, 2018 notional amount estimated fair value (1) assuming a 10% increase in the foreign exchange rate (in millions) assets fixed maturity securities afs $ 298,265 $ (9,560 ) equity securities $ 1,440 (47 ) fvo securities $ 871 (88 ) mortgage loans $ 76,379 (856 ) policy loans $ 11,366 (161 ) short-term investments $ 3,937 (329 ) other invested assets $ 1,413 (264 ) cash and cash equivalents $ 15,821 (472 ) accrued investment income $ 3,582 (94 ) premiums, reinsurance and other receivables $ 3,797 (101 ) other assets $ 350 (18 ) embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) $ 71 (7 ) total assets $ (11,997 ) liabilities (3) policyholder account balances $ 110,313 $ 3,453 payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions $ 24,794 136 long-term debt $ 13,611 106 other liabilities $ 3,518 20 embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) $ 810 61 total liabilities $ 3,776 derivative instruments interest rate swaps $ 60,852 $ 3,958 $ (71 ) interest rate floors $ 12,701 $ 102 interest rate caps $ 54,575 $ 153 interest rate futures $ 2,353 $ (2 ) interest rate options $ 26,690 $ 416 (21 ) interest rate forwards $ 3,256 $ (230 ) 1 interest rate total return swaps $ 1,048 $ 31 synthetic gics $ 25,700 $ foreign currency swaps $ 48,552 $ 445 1,037 foreign currency forwards $ 16,517 $ (28 ) (769 ) currency futures $ 847 $ 4 (87 ) currency options $ 7,177 $ (192 ) 319 credit default swaps $ 13,294 $ 68 (4 ) equity futures $ 2,992 $ (64 ) equity index options $ 27,707 $ 334 9 equity variance swaps $ 2,269 $ (47 ) equity total return swaps $ 929 $ 91 total derivative instruments $ 414 net change $ (7,807 ) __________________ 177 table of contents (1) does not necessarily represent those financial instruments solely subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk. separate account assets and liabilities and unit-linked investments and associated policyholder account balances, which are foreign currency exchange rate sensitive, are not included herein as any foreign currency exchange rate risk is borne by the contractholder, notwithstanding any general account guarantees which are included within embedded derivatives (see footnote (2) below) or included within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances (see footnote (3) below). fvo securities and long-term debt exclude $4 million and $5 million, respectively, related to cses. (2) embedded derivatives are recognized on the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. (3) excludes $ 203.3 billion of liabilities, at carrying value, pursuant to insurance contracts reported within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances. these liabilities would economically offset a significant portion of the net change in fair value of our financial instruments resulting from a 10% appreciation in the u.s. dollar relative to all other currencies. sensitivity to foreign currency exchange rates decreased $60 million to $7.8 billion at december 31, 2018 from $7.9 billion at december 31, 2017. these sensitivities exclude those liabilities, at carrying value, pursuant to insurance contracts reported within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances. these liabilities would economically offset a significant portion of the net change in fair value of our financial instruments resulting from a 10% appreciation in the u.s. dollar relative to all other currencies. 178 table of contents the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our portfolio due to a 10% increase in equity prices by type of asset or liability at: december 31, 2018 notional amount estimated fair value (1) assuming a 10% increase in equity prices (in millions) assets equity securities $ 1,440 $ 144 fvo securities $ 871 33 embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) $ 71 total assets $ 177 liabilities (3) policyholder account balances $ 110,313 $ embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) $ 810 329 total liabilities $ 329 derivative instruments interest rate swaps $ 60,852 $ 3,958 $ interest rate floors $ 12,701 $ 102 interest rate caps $ 54,575 $ 153 interest rate futures $ 2,353 $ (2 ) interest rate options $ 26,690 $ 416 interest rate forwards $ 3,256 $ (230 ) interest rate total return swaps $ 1,048 $ 31 synthetic gics $ 25,700 $ foreign currency swaps $ 48,552 $ 445 foreign currency forwards $ 16,517 $ (28 ) currency futures $ 847 $ 4 currency options $ 7,177 $ (192 ) credit default swaps $ 13,294 $ 68 equity futures $ 2,992 $ (64 ) (227 ) equity index options $ 27,707 $ 334 (198 ) equity variance swaps $ 2,269 $ (47 ) 1 equity total return swaps $ 929 $ 91 (81 ) total derivative instruments $ (505 ) net change $ 1 __________________ (1) does not necessarily represent those financial instruments solely subject to equity price risk. additionally, separate account assets and liabilities and unit-linked investments and associated policyholder account balances, which are equity market sensitive, are not included herein as any equity market risk is borne by the contractholder, notwithstanding any general account guarantees which are included within embedded derivatives (see footnote (2) below) or included within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances (see footnote (3) below). (2) embedded derivatives are recognized on the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. (3) excludes $203.3 billion of liabilities, at carrying value, pursuant to insurance contracts reported within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances. as of december 31, 2018, sensitivity to a 10% equity market increase was $1 million. this compares to a $71 million sensitivity to a 10% equity market decrease at december 31, 2017. 179 table of contentsrisk factors 33 risk factors you should carefully consider the following risk factors. any of these risk factors could harm our businesses, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. you should not consider these risk factors to be a complete set of all potential risks that could affect metlife. these risk factors should be considered carefully together with other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, including business, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in financial statements and supplementary data, and the other reports and materials filed by metlife with the sec. many of these risks are interrelated and could occur under similar business and economic conditions, and the occurrence of certain of them may in turn cause the emergence or exacerbate the effect of others. such a combination could materially increase the severity of the impact of these risks on our businesses, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. economic environment and capital markets risks difficult economic conditions may harm our businesses, results of operations or financial condition market factors, including interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, derivative prices and availability, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, consumer and government spending, business investment, volatility, disruptions and strength of the capital markets, deflation and inflation, and government actions could harm our financial condition, business operations, or ability to receive dividends from our insurance subsidiaries and meet our obligations. such factors could also harm our results of operations, liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses, derivative losses, changes in insurance liabilities, impairments, increased valuation allowances, increases in reserves, reduced net investment income and changes in unrealized gain or loss positions. sustained periods of low interest rates and risk asset returns may reduce income from our investment portfolio, increase our liabilities for claims and future benefits, and increase the cost of risk transfer measures, decreasing our profit margins. during certain market events, such as a global credit crisis, a market downturn, or sustained low market returns, we may incur significant losses due to, among other reasons, losses incurred in our general account and the impact of guarantees, including increases in liabilities, capital maintenance obligations and collateral requirements. any of these events could also impair our financial strength ratings. higher unemployment, higher inflation, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment, lower consumer spending, elevated incidence of claims, adverse utilization of benefits relative to our best estimate expectations, lapses or surrenders of policies, reduced demand for our products, and deferred or canceled payments of insurance premiums may negatively affect our earnings and capitalization and harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. declining equity markets may decrease the account value of our products, reducing certain fees generated by these products, which may increase the level of insurance liabilities we carry, accelerate the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs 33 table of contents ( dac ), and increase funding to our captive reinsurers. additionally, lower interest rates may reduce returns in fixed income investments. interest rate risk some of our products expose us to interest rate risks, including reductions in the difference between short-term and long-term interest rates, which may reduce or eliminate our investment spread and net income. during periods of lower interest rates, we may need to reinvest proceeds from certain investments at lower yields, reducing our investment spread. moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the fixed income securities and loans in our investment portfolio with greater frequency. although we may be able to lower interest crediting rates to help offset decreases in spreads, our ability to lower these rates is limited to our products that have adjustable interest crediting rates, which could be limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. as a result, our investment spread may decrease or become negative, harming our results of operations or financial condition. lower spreads may accelerate the amortization of dac, reducing net income and in turn, harming our credit instrument covenants or rating agency assessment of our financial condition. during periods of declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be more attractive investments to consumers, resulting in increased premium payments on certain products, repayment of policy loans and increased persistency, while our new investments carry lower returns. a market interest rate decline could also reduce our return on investments that do not support particular policy obligations. during periods of sustained lower interest rates, our reserves may need to be increased. accordingly, declining and sustained low interest rates may harm our results of operations, financial position, cash flows, profitability, or issuance of dividends. interest rate increases may also harm our profitability. during rapidly increasing interest rates, we may not be able to replace the investments in our general account with higher yielding investments needed to fund the higher crediting rates required to stay competitive. this could result in a lower spread, lower profitability, decreased sales, and greater loss of existing contracts and related assets. in addition, policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals may increase as policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns. this may result in cash outflows requiring the sale of investments on less favorable terms, resulting in investment losses. we may accelerate the amortization of dac and value of business acquired ( voba ), reducing net income, harming our credit instrument covenants and rating agency assessment of our financial condition, and cause us to accelerate the amortization of negative voba, increasing net income. interest rate increases may harm the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the estimated fair values of fixed income securities, and may increase our daily settlement payments on interest rate futures and cleared swaps, resulting in increased cash outflows and liquidity needs. furthermore, if interest rates rise, our unrealized gains on fixed income securities may decrease and our unrealized losses may increase. the accumulated change in estimated fair value of these fixed income securities would be recognized in net income when a gain or loss is realized upon the sale of the security or if the decline in estimated fair value is determined to be other than temporary and an impairment charge to earnings is taken. finally, an increase in interest rates may decrease fee income associated with a decline in the value of variable annuity account balances invested in fixed income funds. actions resulting from the monetary policies of the federal reserve board and of central banks around the world may also impact the pricing levels of risk-bearing investments and may harm our investment income or product sales. the measures we take to mitigate the risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, such as mitigating our fixed income investments relative to our interest rate sensitive liabilities may not be sufficient. for some of our liability portfolios, it is not possible to invest assets at the full liability duration, thereby creating some asset/liability mismatch. in addition, asymmetrical and non-economic accounting may cause material changes to our net income and stockholders' equity because our non-qualified derivatives are recorded at fair value through earnings, while the related hedged items either follow an accrual-based accounting model, or are recorded at fair value through other comprehensive income. 34 table of contents regulators, agencies, or benchmark administrators may take actions resulting in changes to the way libor is determined, the discontinuance of reliance on libor as a benchmark rate or the establishment of alternative reference rates, which could harm our business. the federal reserve bank of new york began publishing a secured overnight financing rate, which is intended to replace u.s. dollar libor. plans for alternative reference rates for other currencies have also been announced. although the full impact of transition remains unclear, any change or discontinuation of libor may adversely impact interest rates, as well as the value of, return on and markets for a broad array of financial products, including certain of our financial instruments whose value is tied to libor or a libor alternative. additionally, the effect on our business and financial instruments will vary depending on existing fallback provisions in individual contracts and whether, how, and when industry participants develop and adopt alternative reference rates and fallbacks for both legacy and new products or instruments. uncertainty regarding the continued use and reliability of libor, and uncertainty or differences in the calculation of the applicable interest rate or payment amount depending on the terms of the governing instruments could harm the value of such instruments. our transition to alternative reference rates and implementation of necessary changes to our systems, processes and models requires significant work and may negatively impact other aspects of our business, including products, pricing, operations, and valuations. any change to or discontinuation of similar benchmark rates other than libor could have similar effects. credit spread risk changes in credit spreads may result in market price volatility and cash flow variability. market price volatility can make valuations of our securities difficult if trading becomes less frequent, which could harm our results of operations or financial condition and may require additional reserves. market volatility may cause changes in credit spreads, defaults and a lack of pricing transparency, which could harm our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. an increase in credit spreads relative to u.s. treasury benchmarks may increase our borrowing costs and decrease certain product fee income. equity risk downturns and volatility in equity markets may harm our savings and investment products' revenues and investment returns, where fee income is earned based upon the estimated fair value of our managed assets. the variable annuity business is highly sensitive to equity markets, and a sustained weakness or stagnation in the equity markets may decrease these products' revenues and earnings. furthermore, certain of our variable annuity products offer guaranteed benefits that increase our potential benefit exposure should equity markets decline or stagnate. sustained declines in long-term equity returns or interest rates may harm the funding of our pension plans and other postretirement benefit obligations. an increase in equity markets could increase settlement payments on equity futures, which may increase our cash outflows and liquidity needs. the timing of distributions from and valuations of our investments in leveraged buy-out funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds depends on the performance of the underlying investments, distribution schedules, and the funds' need for cash. the amount of net investment income from these investments can vary substantially from period to period and significant volatility may harm our returns and net investment income. in addition, downturns or volatility in the equity markets may decrease the estimated fair value of our alternative investments or equity securities. real estate risk changes in the supply and demand of leasable commercial space, creditworthiness of tenants and partners, capital markets volatility, interest rate fluctuations, commodity prices, farm incomes and housing and commercial property market conditions, among others, may adversely impact our investments in commercial, agricultural and residential mortgage loans, and real estate and real estate joint ventures, harming our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. obligor and counterparty risk our general account investments in certain countries could be adversely affected by volatility resulting from local economic and political concerns, as well as volatility in specific sectors. additionally, u.s. states and municipalities may face budget deficits and other financial difficulties, which may harm the value of securities we hold issued by or under the auspices of such u.s. states, municipalities and political subdivisions. the issuers or guarantors of fixed income securities and mortgage loans we own may default on principal and interest payments they owe us. additionally, the change in value of underlying collateral within asset-backed securities ( abs ), including mortgage-backed securities, may result in a default on principal and interest payments, reducing our cash flows. the occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening credit spreads, or other adverse events may cause the estimated fair value of our portfolio of fixed income securities and mortgage loans and our earnings to decline and the default rate of the fixed income securities and mortgage loans in our investment portfolio to increase. 35 table of contents many of our transactions with counterparties such as brokers and dealers, central clearinghouses, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge funds, investment funds, reinsurers and other financial institutions expose us to the risk of counterparty default. such credit risk may be exacerbated if we cannot realize the collateral held by us in secured transactions or cannot liquidate such collateral at prices sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. furthermore, potential action by governments and regulatory bodies, such as investment, nationalization, conservatorship, receivership and other intervention, or lack of action by governments and central banks, as well as deterioration in the banks' credit standing, could negatively impact these instruments, securities, transactions and investments or limit our ability to trade with them. any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these investments or other changes may harm our business and results of operations. currency exchange rate risk fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar may adversely affect our non-u.s. dollar denominated investments, investments in non-u.s. subsidiaries, net income from non-u.s. operations and issuance of non-u.s. dollar denominated instruments. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may also make certain of our products less attractive to customers, which may increase levels of early policy terminations and decrease sales volume and our in force business. such negative effects may be exacerbated if international markets experience severe economic or financial disruptions or significant currency devaluations, if a foreign economy is determined to be highly inflationary, or if a country withdraws from the euro zone. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may harm our operations, earnings or investments in the affected countries. we may be unable to mitigate the risk of such changes in exchange rates due to unhedged positions, asymmetrical and non-economic accounting resulting from derivative gains (losses) on non-qualifying hedges, the failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation, or other factors. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect the translation of results into our u.s. dollar basis consolidated financial statements. derivatives risk if our counterparties, clearing brokers or central clearinghouses fail or refuse to honor their obligations under our derivatives, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. a counterparty's or central clearinghouse's insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of derivatives agreements or to return collateral could harm our financial condition and results of operations, including our liquidity. if the net estimated fair value of a derivative to which we are a party declines, we may need to pledge collateral or make payments. in addition, ratings downgrades or financial difficulties of derivative counterparties may require us to utilize additional capital for the impacted businesses. furthermore, our derivatives valuation may change based on our valuation methodology or errors in such valuation or valuation methodology. terrorism and security risks the continued threat of terrorism, ongoing military and other actions, potential military conflicts, and heightened security measures may cause significant volatility in global financial markets and result in loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. the value of our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the credit and equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by such threats. companies in which we maintain investments may suffer losses as a result of financial, commercial or economic disruptions, and such disruptions might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or principal on their securities or mortgage loans. terrorist or military actions also could disrupt our operations centers and result in higher than anticipated claims under our insurance policies. adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, our access to capital and our cost of capital in cases of volatility, disruptions, or other conditions in global capital markets we may have to seek additional financing, the availability and cost of which could be adversely affected by market conditions, regulatory considerations, availability of credit to our industry generally, our credit ratings and credit capacity, reduced business activity, or investment losses, and the perception of our financial prospects. our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing we need on favorable terms or at all. we may be required to return significant amounts of cash collateral on short notice under securities lending or derivatives agreements or post collateral or make payments related to specified counterparty agreements. 36 table of contents our business and financial results may suffer without sufficient liquidity through impaired ability to pay claims, other operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock, cash or collateral to our subsidiaries, maintain our securities lending, replace certain maturing liabilities, sustain our operations and investments, and repurchase our common stock. capital and credit market volatility may limit our access to capital we need to operate, limiting our ability to raise capital, issue the types of securities we would prefer, timely replace maturing liabilities, satisfy regulatory requirements, and access capital to grow our business, any of which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. such events could harm our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, or statutory capital position. an inability to access our credit facility could result in a reduction in our liquidity and lead to downgrades in our credit and financial strength ratings we may fail to comply with or fulfill all conditions under the unsecured credit facility (the credit facility ) metlife, inc. and metlife funding, inc. ( metlife funding ) maintain. lenders may fail to fund their lending commitments under the credit facility due to insolvency, illiquidity or other reasons. this could harm our ability to meet our obligations, our credit and financial strength ratings, as well as our liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. a downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could result in a loss of business and harm our financial condition or results of operations nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ( nrsros ) and others may, at any time, downgrade our financial strength ratings or credit ratings, lower our ratings outlooks, increase the scope or frequency of their reviews, or increase capital or other requirements to maintain ratings. such changes could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition by reducing product sales, forcing us to change product pricing, increasing financing costs, increasing policy surrenders or withdrawals, increasing collateral requirements, increasing the risk of derivative terminations, increasing the cost of reinsurance, increasing regulatory scrutiny, or various other factors. reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses our reinsurance costs may increase, or reinsurance may not be available, due to market conditions or other factors, which may reduce our earnings. our risk of loss may increase if we decrease the amount of our reinsurance. any of these could harm our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to the policies we issue. we may incur costs as a result of a reinsurer's insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments, or inability or unwillingness to maintain collateral, harming our financial condition or results of operations, including our liquidity. our statutory life insurance reserve financings may be subject to cost increases, and new financings may be subject to limited market capacity if metlife's ratings decline, market capacity is limited, or on other repricing occasions, our costs to finance statutory life insurance reserves may increase, harming our financial results. if regulators disallow assets to back statutory reserves, we would not be able to take some or all related statutory reserve credit, which may harm the statutory capitalization of certain of our insurance subsidiaries. regulatory and legal risks our businesses are highly regulated, and changes in laws, regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability, limit our growth, or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition insurance or other regulators may change licensing, permit, or approval requirements, or take other actions that may harm our business. they may also take actions that harm our customers and independent sales intermediaries or their operations, which may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or distribute our products. regulations such as financial services regulation, insurance regulation, regulation of variable annuities, securities regulation, derivatives regulation, pension regulation, health care regulation, accounting, cybersecurity regulation, privacy and data protection regulation, tort reform legislation and taxation, laws and regulations that affect customers, sales intermediaries, or others, and our or other parties' failure to comply with these requirements, may harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. adverse regulatory examinations or audits may also harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. regulators may interpret rules differently from the way we have, or change interpretations of laws or rules, and legislators may change statutes, which may adversely affect our businesses. changes to laws or to rules regulators propose or adopt may harm our business or ability to continue to offer products we do today or to introduce new products. 37 table of contents we may incur costs to comply with laws and regulations, and changes to these laws and regulations may increase our expenses. our failure to strictly comply with our own policies or with regulatory requirements may harm our reputation or result in sanctions or legal claims. laws, regulations or regulatory actions may limit or change the type, amount or structure of compensation or benefits we offer our employees or others, which may harm our ability to compete in recruiting and retaining key personnel. our failure to comply with fiduciary or other benefit-related obligations may harm our business, reputation, results of operations, or financial condition. we may incur capital requirement, reserve requirement, risk management infrastructure, and reporting costs to comply with solvency standards. we may be subject to enhanced capital standards, supervision and additional requirements, such as group capital standards or insurer capital standards. metlife, inc. could be compelled to undergo fdic liquidation if it becomes insolvent or is in danger of defaulting on its obligations, imposing greater losses on shareholders and unsecured creditors than under the bankruptcy code. this could also apply to financial institutions whose debt we hold and could harm the value of our holdings. we could be assessed charges in connection with a financial company liquidation, which could harm our financial condition. our ability to react to rapidly changing economic conditions and the dynamic, competitive markets may be impaired if our product designs do not allow frequent and contemporaneous revisions of key pricing elements, or if we are unable to work collaboratively with regulators. changes in regulatory approval processes, rules and other dynamics in the regulatory process could harm our ability to react to such changing conditions. rules on defined benefit pension plan funding may reduce the likelihood or delay corporate plan sponsors in terminating their plans or engaging in transactions to partially or fully transfer pension obligations. this could affect the mix of our pension risk transfers and increase non-guaranteed funding products and could harm our results of operations or financial condition. changes in tax laws or interpretations of such laws could reduce our earnings and materially impact our operations by increasing our corporate taxes and making some of our products less attractive to consumers changes in tax laws or interpretations of such laws - including u.s. tax reform - could increase our corporate taxes and reduce our earnings. changes may increase our effective tax rate or have implications that make our products less attractive to consumers. tax authorities may enact laws, change regulations to increase existing taxes, or add new types of taxes and authorities who have not imposed taxes in the past, may impose additional taxes. any such changes may harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. customers shifting away from employee benefits, life insurance and annuity contracts, or other tax-preferred products would reduce our income from these products and our asset base, reducing our earnings and potentially affecting the value of our deferred tax assets. litigation and regulatory investigations are increasingly common in our businesses and may result in significant financial losses and harm to our reputation legal or regulatory actions, inquiries or investigations, whether ongoing or yet to come, could harm our reputation, ability to attract or retain customers or employees, business, financial condition, or results of operations, even if we ultimately prevail. regulators or private parties may bring class actions, individual suits, or investigations seeking large recoveries alleging wrongs relating to sales or underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product design, disclosure, administration, investments, denial or delay of benefits and breaches of fiduciary or other duties. we may be unable to anticipate the outcome of a litigation and the amount or range of loss because we do not know how adversaries, fact finders, courts, regulators, or others will evaluate evidence, the law, or accounting principles, and whether they will do so differently than we have. capital risks legal and regulatory restrictions may prevent us from paying dividends and repurchasing our stock our financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements, future prospects, capital position, liquidity, financial strength and credit ratings, as well as regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by metlife, inc.'s insurance subsidiaries, general market conditions, the market price of our common stock compared to management's assessment of the stock's underlying value, applicable regulatory approvals, other legal and accounting factors, and other factors deemed relevant by our board may preclude us from paying dividends or repurchasing our common stock. 38 table of contents if we do not pay dividends on our preferred stock or pay interest on our junior subordinated debentures or trust securities, terms of those instruments may restrict our ability to pay dividends or repurchase common stock, or pay dividends or interest on our preferred stock and junior subordinated debentures. further, terms applicable to our floating rate non-cumulative preferred stock, series a (the series a preferred stock ), junior subordinated debentures and trust securities may prevent us from paying dividends or interest on those instruments. we may not be able to eliminate these restrictions through the repayment, redemption or purchase of junior subordinated debentures. we may be restricted from repurchasing shares or entering into share repurchase programs when we are aware of material non-public information, harming our ability to repurchase shares. as a holding company, metlife, inc. depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends, a major component of holding company free cash flow if the cash metlife, inc. receives from its subsidiaries through dividends and other payments is insufficient for it to fund its debt service and other holding company obligations, metlife, inc. may have to issue debt or equity, or sell assets. it may also be insufficient to meet our free cash flow goals and our plans to distribute cash to shareholders. insurance regulators may restrict dividends or other payments above certain amounts where their approval is required, or if they determine payments could be adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. business conditions, rating agency considerations, taxation, dividend and repatriation rules, and monetary transfer and foreign currency exchange rules may limit our insurance subsidiaries' dividends and other payments. we may need to transfer capital among our companies to comply with net worth maintenance or other support agreements, limiting capital available for other purposes. investment risks defaults, downgrades, volatility or other events may adversely affect the investments we hold, resulting in a reduction in our net income and profitability our estimated fair value of our fixed income securities portfolio and corresponding earnings may decline, and the default rate of the fixed income securities in our investment portfolio may increase, in case of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening credit risk spreads, ratings downgrades or other events could harm the issuers or guarantors of securities or the underlying collateral of structured securities that we hold. we may have to hold more capital to support our securities to maintain our rbc levels, should securities we hold suffer a ratings downgrade. our intent to sell, or our assessment of the likelihood that we will be required to sell, fixed income securities may increase our writedowns or impairments. our realized losses or impairments on these securities may harm our net income. the default rate, loss severity or other performance of our mortgage loan investments may change, harming our business, results of operations and financial condition. any concentration of our mortgage loans by geography, tenancy or property-type, may have an adverse effect on our investment portfolio, the price we can obtain when we sell assets, and our results of operations or financial condition. legislation or regulations that would allow or require modifications to the terms of, or impact the value of, mortgage loans could harm our investment portfolio, business, results of operations or financial condition. we may have difficulty selling certain holdings in our investment portfolio or in our securities lending program in a timely manner and realizing full value when we sell holdings in our investment portfolio, we may not receive the price we seek and may sell at a price lower than our carrying value, whether due to limited markets in privately-placed fixed income securities, certain derivative instruments, mortgage loans, policy loans, direct financing and leveraged leases, other limited partnership interests, tax credit and renewable energy partnerships and real estate equity, including real estate joint ventures and funds, reduced liquidity for other investments during periods of market volatility or disruption, or other reasons. we may realize losses that harm our results of operations and financial condition and our financial ratios, which could harm our compliance with our credit instruments and rating agency capital adequacy measures. we may face similar risks if we are required under our securities lending program to return significant amounts of cash collateral that we have invested. our securities lending activities may decrease, harming our net investment income. our requirements to pledge collateral or make payments related to declines in estimated fair value of derivatives transactions or specified assets in connection with otc-cleared and otc-bilateral transactions may adversely affect our liquidity, expose us to central clearinghouse and counterparty credit risk, and increase our costs of hedging we may have to increase the collateral we pledge and the payments we make under our derivatives transactions. regulators, clearinghouses, or counterparties may restrict or eliminate eligible collateral or charge us to pledge such collateral, which would increase our costs and harm the liquidity and composition of our investments. 39 table of contents changes to our valuation of securities and investments, the allowances and impairments taken on our investments, and our methodologies, estimations and assumptions could harm our results of operations or financial condition during periods of market disruption or rapidly-changing market conditions, such as significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, or infrequent trading, or when market data is limited, our assets may become less liquid and we may base our asset valuations on less-observable and more subjective judgments, assumptions, or methods that may result in estimated fair values that significantly vary by period, and may exceed the investment's sale price. decreases in the estimated fair value of our securities may harm our results of operations or financial condition. business risks differences between actual claims experience and underwriting and reserving assumptions may adversely affect our financial results to the extent that our actual claims experience is less favorable than the underlying assumptions we used in establishing claim liabilities, we could be required to reduce dac or voba, increase our liabilities or incur higher costs. the amounts that we will ultimately pay to settle our liabilities, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future, may vary from what we expect. we may change our liability assumptions and increase our liabilities based on actual experience and accounting requirements. our operating practices and procedures that support our policyholders and contractholder obligation assumptions, such as obtaining, accumulating, and filtering data, and our use of technology, such as database analysis and electronic communications, may affect our reserve estimates. to the extent that these practices and procedures do not accurately produce the data to support our assumptions or cause us to change our assumptions, or to the extent that enhanced technological tools become available to us, we may change those assumptions and procedures, as well as our reserves. to the extent that any of our operating practices and procedures do not accurately produce, or reproduce, data that we use to conduct any or all aspects of our business, such errors may negatively impact our business, reputation, results of operations, or financial condition. we may change our assumptions, models, or reserves due to increased longevity. increases in the prevalence and accuracy of genetic testing, or restrictions on its use, may exacerbate adverse selection risks. each of these may harm our business, results of operations, or financial condition. the global nature of our operations exposes us to a variety of political, legal, operational, economic and other risks the global nature of our business operations exposes us to a wide range of political, legal, operational, economic and other risks, including but not limited to: nationalization or expropriation of assets; imposition of limits on foreign ownership of local companies; changes in laws, their application or interpretation; political instability; economic or trade sanctions; dividend limitations; price controls; currency exchange controls or other transfer or exchange restrictions; difficulty enforcing contracts; regulatory restrictions; and public or political criticism of our business and operations. such actions or events may directly or indirectly harm our business or reputation in the relevant jurisdictions, as well as other jurisdictions. some of our businesses operate in emerging markets, where many of these risks are heightened. additionally, we face risks that may impact our global operations, including but not limited to international trade agreements, uncertainties in intergovernmental organizations, pension system reforms, and others. if we encounter labor problems with workers' associations or trade unions, or if any of our businesses are not successful, we may lose all or most of our investment in that business, which may harm our results of operations. expanding our operations to new businesses or jurisdictions may require considerable management time and expenses before significant, if any, revenues and earnings are generated, which may reduce management and financial resources available for other uses. our operations in new or existing markets may be unprofitable or achieve low margins, harming our operating margins and results of operations. 40 table of contents competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability competitive pressures, based on a number of factors including service, product features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, e-business capabilities, name recognition, and other factors, may adversely affect the persistency of our products and our ability to sell products in the future. we may be harmed by competition from other insurance companies, as well as non-insurance financial services companies, which may have a broader array of products, more competitive pricing, higher claims paying ability ratings, greater financial resources with which to compete, or pre-existing customer bases for financial services products. additionally, we may lose purchasers of group insurance products that are underwritten annually due to more favorable terms from competitors. furthermore, the investment management and securities brokerage businesses have relatively low barriers to entry and continually attract new entrants. our customers and clients may engage other financial service providers, and the resulting loss of business may harm our results of operations or financial condition. an increase in consolidation activity among banks and broker-dealers may negatively impact the insurance industry's sales and increase competition for access to distributors, resulting in greater distribution expenses and may impair our ability to market insurance products to or expand our current customer base. consolidation and other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will renegotiate agreements on terms less favorable to us. in addition, legislative and other changes affecting the regulatory environment for our business may not impact all activities and companies equally, which could adversely affect our competitive position within the insurance industry and the broader financial services industry. technological changes may present new and intensified challenges to our business technological changes may present us with new or intensified challenges. we may be unable to accurately, timely, or completely process the increased volume and variety of information relating to our businesses, including information related to deaths, that new technological tools for data collection and analysis make available. we may modify our assumptions, models, or reserves as a result of our review of such information. changes in collection and analysis of data could expose us to regulatory or legal actions and may harm our business, reputation, results of operations, and financial condition. technological changes may change how we interact with customers, who may expect increased choices, and we may have to redesign our products as a result. our distribution channels may become more automated to increase flexibility of access to our services and products. we may incur significant costs to implement these changes. if we are unsuccessful, our competitive position and distribution relationships may be harmed. technological advances may also change our investments composition and results. for example, changes in energy technology and increasing consumer preferences for e-commerce may harm the profitability of some businesses. our failure to adequately adjust our investments may harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. catastrophes may adversely impact liabilities for policyholder claims and reinsurance availability claims resulting from catastrophic events could harm our financial results, profitability, and financial condition. catastrophic events could impair assets in or otherwise harm our investment portfolio, and could harm our reinsurers' financial condition, increasing the probability of reinsurance recoveries defaults. catastrophic events may also reduce economic activity in affected areas, which could harm our business, prospects for new business, or value of our investments. the severity of claims from catastrophic events may be higher if property values increase due to inflation or other factors or our insured lives or property are geographically concentrated. major public health issues, such as a pandemic (e.g. the novel coronavirus covid-19) or other event that causes a large number of illnesses or deaths, could harm our insurance operations and have a major impact on the global economy and financial markets. governmental and non-governmental organizations may not effectively combat the spread and severity of such a pandemic, increasing their harm to us. an event that affects the workforce of one or more of our customers could increase our mortality or morbidity claims. any of these events could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. catastrophe losses as a result of hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather, fires and man-made events such as terrorist attacks may harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. climate change may increase the frequency and severity of weather related disasters and pandemics. climate change regulation may harm the value of investments we hold or harm our counterparties, including reinsurers. 41 table of contents consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we establish liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. the liabilities we have established may not be adequate to cover our actual claim liabilities. our efforts to manage risks may be impeded by restrictions on our ability to withdraw from catastrophe-prone areas or on internal reinsurance transactions. we may be unable to obtain catastrophe reinsurance at rates we find acceptable, or at all. we may be called upon to make contributions to guaranty associations or similar organizations as a result of catastrophes, which may harm our financial condition or results of operations. we may need to fund deficiencies in our closed block; assets allocated to the closed block benefit only the holders of closed block policies the closed block assets established in connection with the mlic demutualization, their cash flows, and the revenue from the closed block policies may not be sufficient to provide for the policies' guaranteed benefits. if they are not, we must fund the shortfall. we may choose, for competitive or other reasons, to support policyholder dividend payments with our general account funds. such actions may reduce funds otherwise be available to us for other uses and could harm our results of operations or financial condition. we may be required to recognize an impairment of our goodwill or other long-lived assets or to establish a valuation allowance against our deferred income tax assets we may reduce our estimated fair value of business units, impairing our goodwill and charging net income, if prolonged market declines or other factors negatively impact the performance of our businesses, harming our results of operations or financial position. we may write down long-lived assets if we conclude we will be unable to recover their carrying amount, which could harm our results of operations or financial position. we may charge net income because we determine that it is more likely than not that we will not realize a deferred income tax asset, based on the performance of the business and its ability to generate future taxable income, harming our results of operations or financial position. in addition, we may need to write-off deferred tax assets if tax rates change. we may be required to accelerate the amortization of or impair dac, dsi or voba low investment returns, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest crediting rates, dividends paid to policyholders, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties and certain economic variables, such as inflation, may harm the gross profit or margins that we use to amortize dac, deferred sales inducements ( dsi ) and voba for many of our life and annuity products. we may accelerate that amortization in the period the actual experience is known, or due to significant or sustained equity market declines or significantly lower spreads, causing a charge to net income and harming our results of operations or financial condition. guarantees within certain products may decrease our earnings, increase the volatility of our results, result in higher risk management costs and expose us to increased counterparty risk our liabilities for guaranteed benefits, including guaranteed minimum death benefits ( gmdbs ) (including but not limited to no-lapse guarantee benefits), guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits ( gmwbs ), guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits ( gmabs ), guaranteed minimum income benefits ( gmibs ), and minimum crediting rate features could increase if equity markets decline or become more volatile, or interest rates decrease, harming our net income. our derivatives and other risk management strategies to hedge our economic exposure to these liabilities may harm our results of operations. our use of reinsurance and derivatives, or other risk management techniques may not offset the costs of guarantees or protect us against losses from changes in policyholder behavior or mortality or from market events. any of these may harm our results of operations, including net income, capitalization, financial condition or liquidity, including our ability to receive dividends from our operating insurance companies. 42 table of contents operational risks our risk management policies and procedures or our models may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk our enterprise risk management policies and procedures may not be sufficiently comprehensive and may not identify every risk to which we are exposed. the assumptions, projections and data on which our risk management models are based may be inaccurate, and our models may not be suitable for their purpose, be misused, not operate properly, and contain errors. our decisions, including determination of reserves, based on such model output and reports could harm our results of operations. our model adjustments may also harm our results of operations. we may fail to adequately identify or remediate model errors. our models may not fully predict future exposures or correctly reflect past experience, which may harm our business, reputation, results of operations or financial condition. our evaluation of markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. we may not effectively identify and monitor all risks or appropriately limit our exposures and our associates, vendors or non-employee sales agents may not follow our risk management policies and procedures. past or future misconduct by our associates, vendors or non-employee sales agents could result in investigations, violations of law, regulatory sanctions, litigation, reputational harm, or financial harm. we may have to implement more extensive or different risk management policies and procedures due to legal and regulatory requirements, which could impose costs and harm our results of operations. our policies and procedures may be insufficient to protect us from certain operational risks we may make errors in any of the large number of transactions we process through our complex administrative systems. our controls and procedures to prevent such errors may not be effective. our controls and procedures to comply with and enforce contractual obligations may not always be effective. mistakes can subject us to claims from our customers and may harm our business, reputation, results of operations, or financial condition. if we are unable to obtain necessary and accurate information from our customers or their employees, we may be unable to provide or verify coverage and pay claims, or we may pay claims without sufficient documentation, which may harm our business, reputation, results of operations, or financial condition. the controls of our vendors on whom we rely may not meet our standards or be adequate, our vendors could fail to perform their services accurately or timely, the exchange of information between us and our vendors may be imperfect, or our vendors may suffer financial or reputational distress. each of these may cause errors, misconduct, or discontinuation of services that could harm our business, reputation, results of operations, or financial condition. we may fail to timely and completely escheat property. as a result, we may incur charges, reserve strengthening, and expenses, regulatory examinations, or penalties. each of these may harm our reputation, regulatory relationships, business, financial condition, or results of operations. our practices and procedures may, at times, limit our efforts to contact all of our customers, which may result in delayed, untimely, or missed customer payments that may harm our reputation, regulatory relationships, business, financial condition, or results of operations. our associates, vendors, non-employee sales agents, customers, or others may commit fraud against us. our policies and procedures may be ineffective in preventing, detecting or mitigating fraud and other illegal or improper acts, which could harm our business, reputation, financial condition, or results of operations. our failure to attract, motivate and retain employees, develop talent, and plan for management succession may harm our business, results of operations, or financial condition. we may identify internal control deficiencies, disclosure control deficiencies, or material weaknesses. these may harm our business, reputation, results of operations, or the market price of our common stock. a failure in our cybersecurity or other information security systems or our disaster recovery plans, or those of our suppliers, could result in a loss or disclosure of confidential information, damage to our reputation and impairment of our ability to conduct business effectively we and our suppliers' computer systems may suffer computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized or fraudulent access, human errors, cyberattacks or other penetrations. our efforts to reduce the risk of cyber-incidents and protect our information technology may be insufficient to prevent break-ins, attacks, fraud, security breaches or other unauthorized access to our and our suppliers' systems. we may not timely detect such incidents, and they may harm our business, reputation, financial condition, or results of operations. 43 table of contents we, our suppliers, and our customers may suffer disasters such as a natural catastrophe, epidemic, industrial accident, blackout, computer virus, terrorist attack, cyberattack or war, and disaster recovery systems may be insufficient, particularly if these affect computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data. our ability to effectively conduct business and maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, could be severely compromised if key personnel are unavailable, our suppliers' ability to provide goods and services, and our associates' ability to perform their job responsibilities are impaired by a disaster. any insurance for liability, operational and other risks may be insufficient to protect us against such losses or may become less readily available or more expensive. regulators' or others' scrutiny of cybersecurity, including new laws or regulations, could increase our compliance costs. any of these could harm our business, reputation, results of operations, or financial position. we may not be able to reliably access all of the documents and records in the information storage systems we use, whether electronic or physical. we may fail to obtain or maintain all of the records we need to accurately and timely administer and establish appropriate reserves for benefits and claims with respect to, our products, which may harm our business, reputation, results of operations, or our financial condition. our continuous systems and processes evaluation and enhancement, including changes designed to enhance protective measures, increase our risk of a system or process failure or the creation of a gap in our security measures, which could harm our business, reputation, results of operations, or financial condition. any failure to protect the confidentiality of client information could harm our reputation or result in legal or regulatory penalties we or our suppliers may fail to maintain adequate internal controls, fail to comply with relevant policies and procedures, or policies, procedures and controls may not be sufficient. as a result, we may intentionally or unintentionally disclose or misuse confidential personal information, or others may misappropriate it, harming our reputation or causing civil or criminal penalties, which, in turn, could harm our business, financial condition, or results of operations. we may incur higher costs to comply with laws on, or regulators' scrutiny of, our use, collection, management, or transfer of data and other privacy practices. changes in accounting standards may adversely affect our financial statements we adopt accounting standard changes issued by the financial accounting standards board (the fasb ), the ifrs foundation, or others, and may do so earlier than required. we may not be able to predict or assess the effects of these changes, and they may harm our financial condition or results of operations. our associates may take excessive risks, which could negatively affect our financial condition and business our associates, including executives and others who manage sales, investments, products, wholesaling, underwriting, and others, may take excessive risks. our compensation programs and practices, and our other controls, may not effectively deter excessive risk-taking or misconduct. our associates may take excessive risks which could harm our reputation, financial condition or business operations. we may experience difficulty in or complications from marketing and distributing products our product distributors may suspend, alter, reduce or terminate their distribution relationships with us if we change our strategy, if our business performance declines, as a result of rating agency actions or concerns about market-related risks, or for other reasons. our distributors may merge, change their business models in ways that affect us, or terminate their distribution contracts with us, and new distribution channels could emerge, harming our distribution efforts. distributors may try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements to less favorable terms due to consolidation or other industry changes or for other reasons. disruption or changes to our relationships with our distributors could harm our ability to market our products and could harm our business, results of operations, or financial condition. our employees or unaffiliated firms or agents may distribute our products in an inappropriate manner, or our customers may not understand them or for whom they are unsuitable, harming our reputation or business. changes in our assumptions used for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability we may change our discount rate, rate of return on plan assets, mortality rate, compensation level or medical inflation assumptions, harming our benefit plan estimates, which could increase our expenses and reduce our profitability. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing on or misappropriating our intellectual property. we may incur litigation costs to enforce and protect it or to determine its scope or validity, and we may not be successful, harming our business, reputation and ability to compete. 44 table of contents in addition, we may be subject to claims by third parties for infringement of intellectual property, breach of license usage rights, or misappropriation of trade secrets. we may incur significant expenses for any such claims. if we are found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party intellectual property right, we may be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or from utilizing and benefiting from certain intellectual property. alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties or implement a costly alternative. consequently, such claims may harm our business, reputation, or results of operations. risks related to acquisitions, dispositions or other structural changes we could face difficulties, unforeseen liabilities, asset impairments or rating actions arising from business acquisitions or integrating and managing growth of such businesses, dispositions of businesses, or legal entity reorganizations acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, joint ventures, and other structural changes expose us to a number of risks arising from, among other factors, economic, operational, strategic, financial, tax, legal, regulatory, and compliance risks. as a result, there can be no assurance that any acquisition, disposition or reorganization will be completed as contemplated, or at all. we may not realize the anticipated economic, strategic or other benefits of any transaction. effecting these transactions may result in harm to our business, unforeseen expenditures and liabilities or a performance different than we expected. the areas where we face risks include, among others, rights to indemnification for losses, regulatory, liquidity and capital requirements, loss of customers, distributors, suppliers and key personnel, diversion of management time and resources to acquisition integration challenges or growth strategies from maximizing business value, and inability to realize anticipated efficiencies. our success in conducting business through joint ventures will depend on our ability to manage a variety of issues, including: (i) our exposure to additional operational, financial, legal or compliance risks as a result of entry into certain joint ventures; (ii) our dependence on a joint venture counterparty given limits on our ownership or distribution requirements, as well as for resources, including capital and product distribution, may reduce our control over, financial returns from, or the value of a joint venture; and (iii) our cooperation with joint venture counterparties, failure of a joint venture counterparty to meet its obligations, or an election to alter, modify or terminate the relationship may negatively impact our results of operations, thereby impairing our investment. reorganizing or consolidating the legal entities through which we conduct business may raise similar risks. our success in realizing the benefits from legal entity reorganizations will also depend on our management of various issues, including regulatory approvals, modification of our operations and changes to our investment portfolios or derivatives hedging activities. any of these risks, if realized, could prevent us from achieving the benefits we expect or could otherwise harm our business, results of operations, or financial condition. we are subject to risks related to our separation from and continuing relationship with brighthouse we may not realize any or all of the expected tax or other benefits of the brighthouse separation, which may harm our business, results of operations, or financial condition. brighthouse may not succeed, causing claims against us that may harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. governance risks metlife, inc.'s board of directors may influence the outcome of stockholder votes on many matters due to the voting provisions of the metlife policyholder trust our board of directors may be able to influence stockholder votes by virtue of the provisions of the metlife policyholder trust and the number of shares of metlife, inc. common stock held by it. trust beneficiary vote instructions are likely to have disproportionate weight on votes concerning certain fundamental corporate actions because the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held by the trust in proportion to those instructions actually received. we may incur regulatory, mailing, or other costs related to the termination of the trust, distribution of the common stock held in trust to beneficiaries and the resulting increase in the number of shareholders. the increase to our shareholder base with full voting rights may affect the outcome of matters brought to a stockholder vote and other aspects of our corporate governance. state laws, federal laws, and metlife, inc.'s certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, deter or prevent takeovers and business combinations that stockholders might consider in their best interests state laws, federal laws and metlife, inc.'s certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider favorable. these provisions may adversely affect the price of metlife, inc.'s common stock if they discourage takeover attempts. stockholders' changes to metlife, inc.'s corporate governance may make it more difficult for the board of directors to protect stockholders' interests. 45 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 133 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management we have an integrated process for managing risk, which we conduct through multiple board and senior management committees (financial and non-financial) across the grm, alm, finance, treasury, investments and business segment departments. the risk committee structure is designed to provide a consolidated enterprise-wide assessment and management of risk. the erc is responsible for reviewing all material risks to the enterprise and deciding on actions, if necessary, in the event risks exceed desired tolerances, taking into consideration industry best practices and the current environment to resolve or mitigate those risks. additional committees at the metlife, inc. and subsidiary insurance company level manage capital and risk positions and establish corporate business standards. global risk management independent from the lines of business, the centralized grm, led by the cro, coordinates across all committees to ensure that all material risks are properly identified, measured, aggregated, managed and reported across the company. the cro reports to the chief executive officer ( ceo ) and is primarily responsible for maintaining and communicating the company's enterprise risk policies and for monitoring and analyzing all material risks. grm considers and monitors a full range of risks against the company's solvency, liquidity, earnings, business operations and reputation. grm's primary responsibilities consist of: implementing a corporate risk framework, which outlines our enterprise approach for managing risk; developing policies and procedures for identifying, managing, measuring, monitoring and controlling those risks identified in the corporate risk framework; coordinating own risk and solvency assessments for board, senior management and regulator use; establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels; recommending risk appetite statements and investment general authorizations to the board; measuring capital on an economic basis; recommending capital allocations on an economic capital basis; and reporting to (i) the finance and risk committee of metlife, inc.'s board of directors; (ii) the investment committee of metlife, inc.'s board of directors; (iii) the compensation committee of metlife, inc.'s board of directors; and (iv) the financial and non-financial senior management committees on various aspects of risk. 133 table of contents asset/liability management we actively manage our assets using an approach that is liability driven and balances quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity, concentration and investment return. the goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income tax, risk-adjusted investment income and risk-adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are reasonably aligned on a cash flow and duration basis. the alm process is the shared responsibility of the alm, grm, and investments departments, with the engagement of senior members of the business segments, and is governed by the alm committees. the alm committees' duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios investment guidelines and limits, approving significant portfolio and alm strategies and providing oversight of the alm process. the directives of the alm committees are carried out and monitored through alm working groups which are set up to manage risk by geography, product or portfolio type. the alm steering committee oversees the activities of the underlying alm committees and working groups. the alm steering committee reports to the erc. we establish portfolio guidelines that define ranges and limits related to asset allocation, interest rate risk, liquidity, concentration and other risks for each major business segment, legal entity or insurance product group. these guidelines support implementation of investment strategies used to adequately fund our liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. we also establish hedging programs and associated investment portfolios for different blocks of business. the alm working groups monitor these strategies and programs through regular review of portfolio metrics, such as effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, value at risk, market sensitivities (to interest rates, equity market levels, equity volatility, and foreign exchange rates), stress scenario payoffs, liquidity, foreign exchange, asset sector concentration and credit quality. market risk exposures we regularly analyze our exposure to interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market price risk. as a result of that analysis, we have determined that the estimated fair values of certain assets and liabilities are materially exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets. we have exposure to market risk through our insurance operations and investment activities. for purposes of this disclosure, market risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets. interest rates our exposure to interest rate changes results most significantly from our holdings of fixed maturity securities, as well as our interest rate sensitive liabilities. the fixed maturity securities afs include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities and abs, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium- and long-term interest rates. the interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include debt, policyholder account balances related to certain investment type contracts, and embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits which have the same type of interest rate exposure (medium- and long-term interest rates) as fixed maturity securities afs. the interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure exclude a significant portion of the liabilities relating to insurance contracts. see risk factors economic environment and capital markets risks difficult economic conditions may harm our businesses, results of operations or financial condition. foreign currency exchange rates our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar results from our holdings in non-u.s. dollar denominated fixed maturity and equity securities, mortgage loans, and certain liabilities, as well as through our investments in foreign subsidiaries. the foreign currency exchange rate liabilities for purposes of this disclosure exclude a significant portion of the liabilities relating to insurance contracts. the principal currencies that create foreign currency exchange rate risk in our investment portfolios and liabilities are the euro, the japanese yen and the british pound. selectively, we use u.s. dollar assets to support certain long-duration foreign currency liabilities. through our investments in foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures, we are primarily exposed to the japanese yen, the euro, the australian dollar, the british pound, the mexican peso, the chilean peso and the korean won. in addition to hedging with foreign currency swaps, forwards and options, local surplus in some countries may be held entirely or in part in u.s. dollar assets, which further minimize exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. we have matched much of our foreign currency liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency assets, thereby reducing our risk to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. see risk factors economic environment and capital markets risks difficult economic conditions may harm our businesses, results of operations or financial condition. 134 table of contents equity market along with investments in equity securities, we have exposure to equity market risk through certain liabilities that involve long-term guarantees on equity performance such as embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits and certain policyholder account balances. equity exposures associated with limited partnership interests are excluded from this discussion as they are not considered financial instruments under gaap. management of market risk exposures we use a variety of strategies to manage interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market risk, including the use of derivatives. interest rate risk management to manage interest rate risk, we analyze interest rate risk using various models, including multi-scenario cash flow projection models that forecast cash flows of the liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivatives. these projections involve evaluating the potential gain or loss on most of our in-force business under various increasing and decreasing interest rate environments. the nydfs regulations require that we perform some of these analyses annually as part of our review of the sufficiency of our regulatory reserves. for several of our legal entities, we maintain segmented operating and surplus asset portfolios for the purpose of alm and the allocation of investment income to product lines. in the u.s., for each segment, invested assets greater than or equal to the gaap liabilities net of certain non-invested assets allocated to the segment are maintained, with any excess allocated to corporate &amp; other. the business segments may reflect differences in legal entity, statutory line of business and any product market characteristic which may drive a distinct investment strategy with respect to duration, liquidity or credit quality of the invested assets. certain smaller entities make use of unsegmented general accounts for which the investment strategy reflects the aggregate characteristics of liabilities in those entities. we measure relative sensitivities of the value of our assets and liabilities to changes in key assumptions utilizing internal models. these models reflect specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting rates. in addition, these models include asset cash flow projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage loan prepayments and defaults. we employ product design, pricing and alm strategies to reduce the potential effects of interest rate movements. product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products and the ability to reset crediting rates for certain products. alm strategies include the use of derivatives. we also use reinsurance to mitigate interest rate risk. we also use common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and liability values to changes in interest rates. in computing the duration of liabilities, we consider all policyholder guarantees and how we intend to set indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or dividends. each asset portfolio or portfolio group has a duration target based on the liability duration and the investment objectives of that portfolio. where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity of available assets, we may support such liabilities with equity investments, derivatives or interest rate curve mismatch strategies. foreign currency exchange rate risk management metlife has a well-established enterprise foreign exchange ( fx ) risk policy to manage foreign currency exchange rate exposures within its risk tolerance. in general, investments backing specific liabilities are currency matched. this is achieved through direct investments in matching currency or through the use of fx derivatives. enterprise fx risk limits are established by the erc. management of each of our segments, with oversight from our fx risk committee and the respective alm committee for the segment, is responsible for managing any foreign currency exchange rate exposure. we use foreign currency swaps, forwards and options to mitigate the liability exposure, risk of loss and financial statement volatility associated with our investments in foreign subsidiaries, foreign currency denominated fixed income investments and the sale of certain insurance products. equity market risk management we manage equity market risk on an integrated basis with other risks through our alm strategies, including the dynamic hedging of certain variable annuity guarantee benefits, as well as reinsurance, in order to limit losses, minimize exposure to large risks, and provide additional capacity for future growth. we also manage equity market risk exposure in our investment portfolio through the use of derivatives. these derivatives include exchange-traded equity futures, equity index options contracts, total rate of return swaps and equity variance swaps. this risk is managed by our alm unit in partnership with the investments department. 135 table of contents hedging activities we use derivative contracts primarily to hedge a wide range of risks including interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and equity market risk. derivative hedges are designed to reduce risk on an economic basis while considering their impact on financial results under different accounting regimes, including u.s. gaap and local statutory accounting. our derivative hedge programs vary depending on the type of risk being hedged. some hedge programs are asset or liability specific while others are portfolio hedges that reduce risk related to a group of liabilities or assets. our use of derivatives by major hedge programs is as follows: risks related to guarantee benefits we use a wide range of derivative contracts to mitigate the risk associated with living guarantee benefits. these derivatives include equity and interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, currency futures/forwards, equity indexed options, total rate of return swaps, interest rate option contracts and equity variance swaps. minimum interest rate guarantees for certain liability contracts, we provide the contractholder a guaranteed minimum interest rate. these contracts include certain fixed annuities and other insurance liabilities. we purchase interest rate caps and floors to reduce risk associated with these liability guarantees. reinvestment risk in long-duration liability contracts derivatives are used to hedge interest rate risk related to certain long-duration liability contracts. hedges include interest rate swaps and swaptions. foreign currency exchange rate risk we use currency swaps, forwards and options to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risk. these hedges are generally used to swap foreign currency denominated bonds, investments in foreign subsidiaries or equity market exposures to u.s. dollars. our foreign subsidiaries also use these hedges to swap non-local currency assets to local currency, to match liabilities . general alm hedging strategies in the ordinary course of managing our asset/liability risks, we use interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, and inflation swaps. these hedges are designed to reduce interest rate risk or inflation risk related to the existing assets or liabilities or related to expected future cash flows. macro hedge program we use equity options, interest rate swaptions and interest rate swaps to mitigate the potential loss of legal entity statutory capital under stress scenarios. risk measurement: sensitivity analysis we measure market risk related to our market sensitive assets and liabilities based on changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity market prices utilizing a sensitivity analysis. for purposes of this disclosure, a significant portion of the liabilities relating to insurance contracts is excluded, as discussed further below. this analysis estimates the potential changes in estimated fair value based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity market prices. we believe that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the near term. in performing the analysis summarized below, we used market rates at december 31, 2019 . the sensitivity analysis separately calculates each of our market risk exposures (interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market) relating to our assets and liabilities. we modeled the impact of changes in market rates and prices on the estimated fair values of our market sensitive assets and liabilities as follows: the net present values of our interest rate sensitive exposures resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates; the u.s. dollar equivalent estimated fair values of our foreign currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase in the value of the u.s. dollar compared to all foreign currencies or decrease in the value of the u.s. dollar compared to all foreign currencies) in foreign currency exchange rates; and the estimated fair value of our equity market sensitive exposures due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity market prices. 136 table of contents the sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as predictive of our future financial performance. we cannot ensure that our actual losses in any particular period will not exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. limitations related to this sensitivity analysis include: interest sensitive and foreign currency exchange sensitive liabilities do not include $212.1 billion , at carrying value, of insurance contracts. management believes that the changes in the economic value of those contracts under changing interest rates and changing foreign currency exchange rates would offset a significant portion of the fair value changes of interest sensitive and foreign currency exchange rate sensitive assets; the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgage loans; sensitivities do not include the impact on asset or liability valuation of changes in market liquidity or changes in market credit spreads; foreign currency risk is not isolated for certain embedded derivatives within host asset and liability contracts, as the risk on these instruments is reflected as equity; for the derivatives that qualify as hedges, and for certain other assets such as mortgage loans, the impact on reported earnings may be materially different from the change in market values; the analysis excludes liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts and real estate holdings; and the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains unchanged throughout the period. accordingly, we use such models as tools and not as substitutes for the experience and judgment of our management. based on our analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and prices, we have determined that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the estimated fair value of certain assets and liabilities from interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market exposures. the table below illustrates the potential loss in estimated fair value for each market risk exposure of our market sensitive assets and liabilities at: december 31, 2019 (in millions) interest rate risk $ 5,156 foreign currency exchange rate risk $ 8,332 equity market risk $ 33 __________________ the risk sensitivities derived used a 10% increase to interest rates, a 10% strengthening of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies, and a 10% increase in equity prices. the potential losses in estimated fair value presented are for non-trading securities. 137 table of contents the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our interest sensitive financial instruments due to a 10% increase in interest rates by type of asset or liability at: december 31, 2019 notional amount estimated fair value (1) assuming a 10% increase in interest rates (in millions) assets fixed maturity securities afs $ 327,820 $ (4,558 ) equity securities $ 1,342 (2 ) fvo securities $ 1,248 (6 ) mortgage loans $ 83,079 (577 ) policy loans $ 11,655 (100 ) short-term investments $ 3,850 (3 ) other invested assets $ 1,872 cash and cash equivalents $ 16,598 (1 ) accrued investment income $ 3,523 premiums, reinsurance and other receivables $ 3,884 (14 ) other assets $ 319 (3 ) embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) $ 60 total assets $ (5,264 ) liabilities (3) policyholder account balances $ 118,224 $ 639 payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions $ 26,745 short-term debt $ 235 long-term debt $ 15,830 307 collateral financing arrangement $ 810 junior subordinated debt securities $ 4,405 49 other liabilities $ 2,819 62 embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) $ 802 116 total liabilities $ 1,173 derivative instruments interest rate swaps $ 64,127 $ 5,465 $ (527 ) interest rate floors $ 12,701 $ 155 (29 ) interest rate caps $ 42,622 $ 13 12 interest rate futures $ 2,423 $ (1 ) 1 interest rate options $ 27,344 $ 763 (146 ) interest rate forwards $ 7,493 $ (62 ) (198 ) interest rate total return swaps $ 1,048 $ (44 ) (43 ) synthetic gics $ 30,341 $ foreign currency swaps $ 51,986 $ 379 (138 ) foreign currency forwards $ 16,902 $ (392 ) 11 currency futures $ 880 $ 7 currency options $ 6,001 $ (58 ) (4 ) credit default swaps $ 14,464 $ 173 equity futures $ 4,540 $ (2 ) (1 ) equity index options $ 27,105 $ 17 (3 ) equity variance swaps $ 1,115 $ 4 equity total return swaps $ 761 $ (70 ) total derivative instruments $ (1,065 ) net change $ (5,156 ) __________________ (1) separate account assets and liabilities and unit-linked investments and associated policyholder account balances, which are interest rate sensitive, are not included herein as any interest rate risk is borne by the contractholder, notwithstanding any general account guarantees which are included within embedded derivatives (see footnote (2) below) or included within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances (see footnote (3) below). fvo securities and long-term debt exclude $3 million and $5 million, respectively, related to cses. 138 table of contents (2) embedded derivatives are recognized on the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. (3) excludes $ 212.1 billion of liabilities, at carrying value, pursuant to insurance contracts reported within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances. these liabilities would economically offset a significant portion of the net change in fair value of our financial instruments resulting from a 10% increase in interest rates. sensitivity to rising interest rates decreased $0.5 billion to $5.2 billion at december 31, 2019 from $5.7 billion at december 31, 2018. the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our portfolio due to a 10% increase in the u.s. dollar compared to all foreign currencies at: december 31, 2019 notional amount estimated fair value (1) assuming a 10% increase in the foreign exchange rate (in millions) assets fixed maturity securities afs $ 327,820 $ (10,469 ) equity securities $ 1,342 (76 ) fvo securities $ 1,248 (99 ) mortgage loans $ 83,079 (950 ) policy loans $ 11,655 (159 ) short-term investments $ 3,850 (235 ) other invested assets $ 1,872 (329 ) cash and cash equivalents $ 16,598 (413 ) accrued investment income $ 3,523 (83 ) premiums, reinsurance and other receivables $ 3,884 (62 ) other assets $ 319 (18 ) embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) $ 60 (6 ) total assets $ (12,899 ) liabilities (3) policyholder account balances $ 118,224 $ 3,508 payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions $ 26,745 154 long-term debt $ 15,830 195 other liabilities $ 2,819 14 embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) $ 802 45 total liabilities $ 3,916 derivative instruments interest rate swaps $ 64,127 $ 5,465 $ (113 ) interest rate floors $ 12,701 $ 155 interest rate caps $ 42,622 $ 13 interest rate futures $ 2,423 $ (1 ) interest rate options $ 27,344 $ 763 (31 ) interest rate forwards $ 7,493 $ (62 ) (1 ) interest rate total return swaps $ 1,048 $ (44 ) synthetic gics $ 30,341 $ foreign currency swaps $ 51,986 $ 379 1,524 foreign currency forwards $ 16,902 $ (392 ) (794 ) currency futures $ 880 $ 7 (88 ) currency options $ 6,001 $ (58 ) 139 credit default swaps $ 14,464 $ 173 (8 ) equity futures $ 4,540 $ (2 ) equity index options $ 27,105 $ 17 23 equity variance swaps $ 1,115 $ 4 equity total return swaps $ 761 $ (70 ) total derivative instruments $ 651 net change $ (8,332 ) __________________ 139 table of contents (1) does not necessarily represent those financial instruments solely subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk. separate account assets and liabilities and unit-linked investments and associated policyholder account balances, which are foreign currency exchange rate sensitive, are not included herein as any foreign currency exchange rate risk is borne by the contractholder, notwithstanding any general account guarantees which are included within embedded derivatives (see footnote (2) below) or included within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances (see footnote (3) below). fvo securities and long-term debt exclude $3 million and $5 million, respectively, related to cses. (2) embedded derivatives are recognized on the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. (3) excludes $ 212.1 billion of liabilities, at carrying value, pursuant to insurance contracts reported within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances. these liabilities would economically offset a significant portion of the net change in fair value of our financial instruments resulting from a 10% appreciation in the u.s. dollar relative to all other currencies. sensitivity to foreign currency exchange rates increased $0.5 billion to $8.3 billion at december 31, 2019 from $7.8 billion at december 31, 2018. these sensitivities exclude those liabilities, at carrying value, pursuant to insurance contracts reported within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances. these liabilities would economically offset a significant portion of the net change in fair value of our financial instruments resulting from a 10% appreciation in the u.s. dollar relative to all other currencies. 140 table of contents the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our portfolio due to a 10% increase in equity prices by type of asset or liability at: december 31, 2019 notional amount estimated fair value (1) assuming a 10% increase in equity prices (in millions) assets equity securities $ 1,342 $ 94 fvo securities $ 1,248 40 embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) $ 60 total assets $ 134 liabilities (3) policyholder account balances $ 118,224 $ embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) $ 802 289 total liabilities $ 289 derivative instruments interest rate swaps $ 64,127 $ 5,465 $ interest rate floors $ 12,701 $ 155 interest rate caps $ 42,622 $ 13 interest rate futures $ 2,423 $ (1 ) interest rate options $ 27,344 $ 763 interest rate forwards $ 7,493 $ (62 ) interest rate total return swaps $ 1,048 $ (44 ) synthetic gics $ 30,341 $ foreign currency swaps $ 51,986 $ 379 foreign currency forwards $ 16,902 $ (392 ) currency futures $ 880 $ 7 currency options $ 6,001 $ (58 ) credit default swaps $ 14,464 $ 173 equity futures $ 4,540 $ (2 ) (381 ) equity index options $ 27,105 $ 17 6 equity variance swaps $ 1,115 $ 4 3 equity total return swaps $ 761 $ (70 ) (84 ) total derivative instruments $ (456 ) net change $ (33 ) __________________ (1) does not necessarily represent those financial instruments solely subject to equity price risk. additionally, separate account assets and liabilities and unit-linked investments and associated policyholder account balances, which are equity market sensitive, are not included herein as any equity market risk is borne by the contractholder, notwithstanding any general account guarantees which are included within embedded derivatives (see footnote (2) below) or included within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances (see footnote (3) below). (2) embedded derivatives are recognized on the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. (3) excludes $212.1 billion of liabilities, at carrying value, pursuant to insurance contracts reported within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances. sensitivity to a 10% equity market increase at december 31, 2019 was ($33) million compared to $1 million at december 31, 2018. 141 table of contentsrisk factors 32 risk factors difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations and these conditions may not improve in the near future our business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally. stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in global capital markets, particular markets, or financial asset classes can have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and our insurance liabilities are sensitive to changing market factors. global market factors, including interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, deflation and inflation, all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. disruptions in one market or asset class can also spread to other markets or asset classes. upheavals in the financial markets can also affect our business through their effects on general levels of economic activity, employment and customer behavior. while our diversified business mix and geographically diverse business operations partially mitigate these risks, correlation across regions, countries and global market factors may reduce the benefits of diversification. volatile conditions have continued to characterize financial markets at times, and not all global financial markets are functioning normally. significant market volatility, and government actions taken in response, may exacerbate some of the risks we face. beginning in 2010 and continuing throughout 2011, concerns increased about capital markets and the solvency of certain european union member states, including portugal, ireland, italy, greece and spain ( europe perimeter region ), and of financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by these countries. this, in turn, created market volatility which will continue to affect the performance of various asset classes in 2012, and perhaps longer, until there is an ultimate resolution of these sovereign debt-related concerns. as a result of concerns about the ability of europe perimeter region to service their sovereign debt, these countries have experienced credit ratings downgrades, including the downgrade of greece sovereign debt in july 2011 by moody investors service, inc. ( moody ) and standard &amp; poor ratings services ( s&amp;p ) to ca and cc ratings, respectively rating designations of likely in, or very near, default. on february 27, 2012, s&amp;p downgraded greece credit rating to sd, a rating of selective default. despite support programs for europe perimeter region, concerns about the ability to service sovereign debt subsequently expanded to other european union member states. as a result, in late 2011 and early 2012, several other european union member states have experienced credit ratings downgrades or have had their credit ratings outlook changed to negative. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment. the japanese economy, to which we face substantial exposure given our operations there, was significantly negatively impacted by the march 2011 earthquake and tsunami. although we expect modest growth in the japanese economy during 2012, disruptions to the japanese economy are having, and will continue to have, negative impacts on the overall global economy, not all of which can be foreseen. although the august 2011 downgrade by s&amp;p of u.s. treasury securities initially had an adverse effect on financial markets, the extent of the longer-term impact cannot be predicted. in november 2011, fitch ratings ( fitch ) warned that it may in the future downgrade the u.s. credit rating unless action is taken to reduce the national debt of the u.s. it is possible that the august 2011 s&amp;p downgrade and any future downgrades, as well as continued concerns about u.s. fiscal policy and the trajectory of the national debt of the u.s., could have severe repercussions to the u.s. and global credit and financial markets, further exacerbate concerns over sovereign debt of other countries and could disrupt economic activity in the u.s. and elsewhere. see concerns over u.s. fiscal policy and the trajectory of the national debt of the u.s., as well as rating agency downgrades of u.s. treasury securities, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment. our revenues and net investment income are likely to remain under pressure in uncertain financial market conditions and as a result of low interest rates and our profit margins could erode. also, in the event of extreme 32 table of contents prolonged market events, such as the recent global credit crisis, we could incur significant capital and/or operating losses. even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. we are a significant writer of variable insurance products and certain other products issued through separate accounts. the account values of these products decrease as a result of declining equity markets. decreases in account values reduce fees generated by these products, cause the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs ( dac ) to accelerate and could increase the level of insurance liabilities we must carry to support such products issued with any associated guarantees. factors such as consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, deflation and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. in an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. group insurance, in particular, is affected by the higher unemployment rate. in addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the recent financial crisis has precipitated, and may continue to raise the possibility of, legislative, judicial, regulatory and other governmental actions. we cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur, nor can we predict what ultimate impact, if any, either such actions or any of the legislative, judicial, regulatory and other governmental actions of the last several years could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. see governmental and regulatory actions for the purpose of stabilizing and revitalizing the financial markets and protecting investors and consumers may not achieve the intended effect or could adversely affect our competitive position, our insurance, brokerage and banking businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth, various aspects of dodd-frank could impact our business operations, capital requirements and profitability and limit our growth, and competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability. concerns over u.s. fiscal policy and the trajectory of the national debt of the u.s., as well as rating agency downgrades of u.s. treasury securities, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations concerns over u.s. fiscal policy and the trajectory of the national debt could have severe repercussions to the u.s. and global credit and financial markets, further exacerbate concerns over sovereign debt of other countries and disrupt economic activity in the u.s. and elsewhere. as a result, our access to, or cost of, liquidity may deteriorate. in august 2011, s&amp;p downgraded the aaa rating on u.s. treasury securities to aa+ with a negative outlook, while moody affirmed the aaa rating on u.s. treasury securities, but with a negative outlook. in october 2011, moody affirmed its august 2011 ratings, but revised its negative outlook to stable. in november 2011, fitch affirmed its aaa rating on u.s. treasury securities but changed its u.s. credit rating outlook to negative from stable, citing the failure of a special congressional committee to agree on certain deficit reduction measures and warning that it may in the future downgrade the u.s. credit rating unless action is taken to reduce the national debt of the u.s. as a result of downgrades of u.s. treasury securities, the market value of some of our investments may decrease, and our capital adequacy could be adversely affected, which could require us to raise additional capital during a period of distress in financial markets, potentially at a higher cost. further downgrades, together with the sustained current trajectory of the national debt of the u.s., would significantly exacerbate the risks we face and any resulting adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including those 33 table of contents described under difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations and these conditions may not improve in the near future, adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital, our participation in a securities lending program subjects us to potential liquidity and other risks and the determination of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on our investments is subjective and could materially impact our results of operations or financial position. we cannot predict whether or when these adverse consequences may occur, what other unforeseen consequences may result, or the extent, severity and duration of the impact of such consequences on our business, results of operations and financial condition. governmental and regulatory actions for the purpose of stabilizing and revitalizing the financial markets and protecting investors and consumers may not achieve the intended effect or could adversely affect our competitive position in recent years, congress, the federal reserve, the fdic, the u.s. treasury and other agencies of the u.s. federal government have taken a number of increasingly aggressive actions (including a series of interest rate reductions that began in the second half of 2007) intended to provide liquidity to financial institutions and markets, to avert a loss of investor confidence in particular troubled institutions, to prevent or contain the spread of the financial crisis and to spur economic growth. most of these programs have largely run their course or been discontinued. more likely to be relevant to us are the monetary policy implemented by the federal reserve and the implementation of dodd-frank, which will significantly change financial regulation in the u.s. in a number of areas that could affect us. given the large number of provisions of dodd-frank that must be implemented through regulatory action and the delay with which some aspects of this implementation are taking place, we cannot predict what impact this could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the impact of dodd-frank implementation will also be affected by metlife bank pending actions to exit the depository business, metlife bank decision to exit the forward mortgage origination business, metlife, inc. intention to deregister as a bank holding company, and dodd-frank rulemaking initiatives relating to non-bank systemically important financial institutions. see various aspects of dodd-frank could impact our business operations, capital requirements and profitability and limit our growth and business u.s. regulation dodd-frank and other legislative and regulatory developments. the federal reserve board has taken a number of actions in recent years to spur economic activity by keeping interest rates low and may take further actions to influence interest rates in the future, which may have an impact on the pricing levels of risk-bearing investments, and may adversely impact the level of product sales. there can be no assurance that these actions will have the intended effect or what impact, if any, these actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the u.s. federal government (including the fdic) and private lenders have instituted programs to reduce the monthly payment obligations of mortgagors and/or reduce the principal payable on residential mortgage loans. as a result of such programs or of any legislation requiring loan modifications, we may need to maintain or increase our engagement in similar activities in order to comply with program or statutory requirements and to remain competitive. increased attention is also being paid to the practices of lenders in connection with the mortgage modification process. we cannot predict whether the funds made available by the u.s. federal government and its agencies, or other actions taken by the government, will stabilize or further revive the financial markets or harm them or, if the u.s. federal government decides to distribute additional amounts, either by federal reserve board action or by congressional appropriation, whether those additional actions will have positive or negative effects. the choices made by the u.s. treasury, the federal reserve and the fdic in their distribution of funds under any future asset purchase programs, as well as any decisions made regarding the imposition of additional regulation on large financial institutions may have, over time, the effect of supporting or burdening some aspects of the financial services industry more than others. some of our competitors have received, or may in the future 34 table of contents receive, benefits under one or more of the federal government programs. this could adversely affect our competitive position. see our insurance, brokerage and banking businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth, governmental and regulatory actions for the purpose of stabilizing and revitalizing the financial markets and protecting investors and consumers may not achieve the intended effect or could adversely affect our competitive position, and competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability. adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, access to capital and cost of capital the capital and credit markets are sometimes subject to periods of extreme volatility and disruption. such volatility and disruption could cause liquidity and credit capacity for certain issuers to be limited. we need liquidity to pay our operating expenses, interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock, maintain our securities lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities. without sufficient liquidity, we will be forced to curtail our operations, and our business will suffer. the principal sources of our liquidity are insurance premiums, annuity considerations, deposit funds, and cash flow from our investment portfolio and assets, consisting mainly of cash or assets that are readily convertible into cash. sources of liquidity in normal markets also include short-term instruments such as funding agreements and commercial paper. sources of capital in normal markets include long-term instruments, medium- and long-term debt, junior subordinated debt securities, capital securities and equity securities. in the event market or other conditions have an adverse impact on our capital and liquidity, or any required regulatory stress-testing indicates that such conditions could have such an impact beyond expectations and our current resources do not satisfy our needs or regulatory requirements, we may have to seek additional financing. the availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, regulatory considerations, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to a market downturn. similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient and, in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. our liquidity requirements may change if, among other things, we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral on short notice under securities lending agreements. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital required to operate our business, most significantly our insurance operations. such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy regulatory capital requirements (under both insurance and banking laws); and access the capital necessary to grow our business. see management discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations industry trends regulatory changes. see also business u.s. regulation financial holding company regulation for information relating to the possible impact on us of regulation yy, basel ii and basel iii, business u.s. regulation dodd-frank and other legislative and regulatory developments for a discussion of the possible impact on us of dodd-frank, and business international regulation for information relating to solvency ii. as a result, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue different types of securities than we would have otherwise, less effectively deploy such capital, issue shorter tenor securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. 35 table of contents our insurance, brokerage and banking businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth insurance regulation u.s. our insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of insurance and other laws and regulations. see business u.s. regulation insurance regulation. state insurance laws regulate most aspects of our u.s. insurance businesses, and our u.s insurance subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance regulators of the states in which they are domiciled and the states in which they are licensed. state laws in the u.s. grant insurance regulatory and other state authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things: licensing companies and agents to transact business; calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements; mandating certain insurance benefits; regulating certain premium rates; reviewing and approving policy forms; regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution arrangements and payment of inducements, and identifying and paying to the states benefits and other property that is not claimed by the owners; regulating advertising; protecting privacy; establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency standards; fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity contracts; approving changes in control of insurance companies; restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates; and regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments. state insurance guaranty associations have the right to assess insurance companies doing business in their state for funds to help pay the obligations of insolvent insurance companies to policyholders and claimants. because the amount and timing of an assessment is beyond our control, the liabilities that we have currently established for these potential liabilities may not be adequate. see business u.s. regulation insurance regulation guaranty associations and similar arrangements. state insurance regulators and the naic regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, that are made for the benefit of the consumer sometimes lead to additional expense for the insurer and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. u.s. federal regulation affecting insurance . currently, the u.s. federal government does not directly regulate the business of insurance. however, dodd-frank allows federal regulators to compel state insurance regulators to liquidate an insolvent insurer under some circumstances if the state regulators have not acted within a specific period. it also establishes the federal insurance office within the department of the treasury, which has the authority to participate in the negotiations of international insurance agreements with foreign regulators for the u.s., as well as to collect information about the insurance industry and recommend prudential standards. 36 table of contents while not having a general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance, the director of this office will perform various functions with respect to insurance, including serving as a non-voting member of the fsoc and making recommendations to the fsoc regarding insurers to be designated for more stringent regulation. the director is also required to submit a report to congress regarding how to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the united states, including by increasing national uniformity through either a federal charter or effective action by the states. federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies. these areas include financial services regulation, securities regulation, derivatives regulation, mortgage regulation, pension regulation, health care regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. in addition, various forms of direct and indirect federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time, including proposals for the establishment of an optional federal charter for insurance companies. other aspects of our insurance operations could also be affected by dodd-frank. for example, dodd-frank imposes restrictions on the ability of affiliates of insured depository institutions (such as metlife bank) to engage in proprietary trading or sponsor or invest in hedge funds or private equity funds. see business u.s. regulation dodd-frank and other legislative and regulatory developments volcker rule. banking and bank holding company regulation . as a federally chartered national banking association, metlife bank is subject to a wide variety of banking laws, regulations and guidelines. federal banking and consumer financial protection laws regulate most aspects of the business of metlife bank, but certain state laws may apply as well. metlife bank is principally regulated by the occ and the cfpb, and secondarily by the federal reserve and the fdic. federal banking laws and regulations address various aspects of metlife bank business and operations with respect to, among other things: chartering to carry on business as a bank; the permissibility of certain activities; maintaining minimum capital ratios; capital management in relation to the bank assets; dividend payments and repurchases of securities, including common stock; safety and soundness standards; loan loss and other related liabilities; liquidity; financial reporting and disclosure standards; counterparty credit concentration; restrictions on related party and affiliate transactions; lending limits (and, in addition, dodd-frank includes the credit exposures arising from securities lending by metlife bank within lending limits otherwise applicable to loans); payment of interest; unfair or deceptive acts or practices; mortgage servicing practices; privacy; and relationships with metlife, inc. in its capacity as a bank holding company and potentially with other investors in connection with a change in control of metlife bank. 37 table of contents federal banking regulators regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to banks and their products. changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, are often made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the bank and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of metlife bank. from 2008 until january 2012, metlife bank significantly increased its mortgage servicing activities by acquiring servicing portfolios. currently, metlife bank services approximately 1% of the aggregate principal amount of the mortgage loans serviced in the u.s. in january 2012, metlife, inc. announced that metlife bank was exiting its forward mortgage origination business. the company continues to originate reverse mortgages and will continue to service its current mortgage customers. state and federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities have initiated various inquiries, investigations or examinations of alleged irregularities in the foreclosure practices of the residential mortgage servicing industry. mortgage servicing practices have also been the subject of congressional attention. authorities have publicly stated that the scope of the investigations extends beyond foreclosure documentation practices to include mortgage loan modification and loss mitigation practices. see the resolution of several issues affecting the financial services industry could have a negative impact on our reported results or on our relations with current and potential customers. in addition, dodd-frank established the cfpb that supervises and regulates institutions providing certain financial products and services to consumers. although the consumer financial services to which this legislation applies exclude insurance business of the kind in which we engage, the cfpb has authority to regulate consumer services provided by metlife bank and non-insurance consumer services provided elsewhere throughout metlife. see business u.s. regulation dodd-frank and other legislative and regulatory developments consumer protection laws. we cannot predict how regulation by the cfpb might affect our business. in december 2010, the basel committee published basel iii for bank holding companies, such as metlife, inc. assuming these requirements are endorsed and adopted by the u.s., they are to be phased in beginning january 1, 2013. it is possible that even more stringent capital and liquidity requirements could be imposed on us under basel iii and dodd-frank as long as metlife, inc. remains a bank holding company or if, in the future, it is designated by the fsoc as a non-bank systemically important financial institution. in december 2011, the federal reserve board issued a release proposing the adoption of regulation yy. regulation yy would apply to bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more and non-bank sifis. the ability of metlife bank and metlife, inc. to pay dividends, repurchase common stock or other securities or engage in other transactions that could affect its capital or need for capital would be affected by any additional capital requirements that might be imposed as a result of the enactment of dodd-frank, regulation yy and the endorsement and adoption by the u.s. of basel iii and other regulatory initiatives. we are also subject to the evolving solvency ii insurance regulatory directive for each of our insurance operations throughout the european economic area. as requirements are finalized by the regulators, capital requirements might be impacted in a number of jurisdictions. in addition, our legal entity structure throughout europe may impact our capital requirements, risk management infrastructure and reporting by country. see business u.s. regulation, business international regulation and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends. the basel committee has also published rules requiring a capital surcharge for globally systemically important banks, which are to be phased in beginning in 2016 and will become fully effective in 2019 if they are endorsed and adopted by the u.s. banking regulators. the federal reserve capital plan rule requires all bank holding companies with assets of more than $50 billion, including metlife, inc., to submit annual capital plans which include projections of the company capital levels under baseline and stress scenarios over a nine-quarter period. the federal reserve will approve or object to a company proposed capital actions, such as dividends and stock repurchases, based on the results of those capital plans and the federal reserve assessment of the robustness of the company capital planning processes. in addition, in recent years the federal reserve has conducted its own assessment of large bank holding companies internal capital planning processes, capital adequacy and proposed capital distributions. in 2011, the federal reserve conducted the ccar 2011. in october 2011, we announced that the federal reserve 38 table of contents had concluded that our planned capital actions submitted as part of ccar 2011 should be tested under a revised adverse macroeconomic scenario developed for those firms participating in the ccar 2012. as a result, the federal reserve did not approve metlife, inc. planned dividend increase and other proposed capital actions. in january 2012, we submitted to the federal reserve a comprehensive capital plan, as mandated by the capital plans rule, and additional information required by ccar 2012. the capital plan projects metlife capital levels to the end of 2013 under baseline and stress scenarios, including a stress scenario developed and provided by the federal reserve as part of ccar 2012. the federal reserve has stated that it will consider the results of the capital plan exercise and ccar 2012 in evaluating proposed capital actions by participating bank holding companies, such as common stock dividend increases and stock repurchases, and that it will provide its assessment of participating institutions capital plans in mid-march 2012. there can be no assurance that the federal reserve will approve our capital plans. under dodd-frank, all bank holding companies that have elected to be treated as financial holding companies, such as metlife, inc., are required to be well capitalized and well managed as defined by the federal reserve, on a consolidated basis, and not just at their depository institution(s), a higher standard than was applicable to financial holding companies before dodd-frank. if we are unable to meet these standards, we could be subject to activity restrictions, ultimately be required to divest certain operations and be restricted in our ability to pay dividends, repurchase common stock or other securities, or engage in transactions that could affect our capital or need for capital. see business u.s. regulation dodd-frank and other legislative and regulatory developments. once metlife bank has completely exited its depository business, metlife, inc. plans to terminate metlife bank fdic insurance, putting metlife, inc. in a position to be able to deregister as a bank holding company. upon completion of the foregoing, we will no longer be regulated as a bank holding company or subject to enhanced supervision and prudential standards as a bank holding company with assets of $50 billion or more. however, if, in the future, metlife, inc. is designated by the fsoc as a non-bank systemically important financial institution, it would once again be subject to regulation by the federal reserve and enhanced supervision and prudential standards, such as regulation yy. in october 2011, the fsoc issued a notice of proposed rulemaking outlining the process it will follow and the criteria it will use to assess whether a non-bank financial company should be subject to enhanced supervision by the federal reserve as a non-bank systemically important financial institution. if metlife, inc. meets the quantitative thresholds set forth in the proposal, the fsoc will continue with a further analysis using qualitative and quantitative factors. see business u.s. regulation financial holding company regulation and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends. the fdic has the right to assess fdic-insured banks for funds to help pay the obligations of insolvent banks to depositors. because the amount and timing of an assessment is beyond our control, the liabilities that we have currently established for these potential liabilities may not be adequate. in addition, dodd-frank will result in increased assessments for banks with assets of $10 billion or more, which includes metlife bank. in addition, large bank holding companies and non-bank systemically important financial institutions can be assessed under dodd-frank for any uncovered costs arising in connection with the resolution of a systemically important financial company and, under a proposal of the u.s. treasury published on january 3, 2012, will be assessed to cover the expenses of the office of financial research, an agency established by dodd-frank to improve the quality of financial data available to policymakers and facilitate more robust and sophisticated analysis of the financial system. regulation of brokers and dealers . dodd-frank also authorizes the sec to establish a standard of conduct applicable to brokers and dealers when providing personalized investment advice to retail and other customers. this standard of conduct would be to act in the best interest of the customer without regard to the financial or other interest of the broker or dealer providing the advice. see business u.s. regulation securities, broker-dealer and investment adviser regulation and changes in u.s. federal and state securities laws and regulations, and state insurance regulations regarding suitability of annuity product sales, may affect our operations and our profitability. 39 table of contents international regulation . our international insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. see business international regulation and our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability. a significant portion of our revenues is generated through operations in foreign jurisdictions, including many countries in early stages of economic and political development. our international operations may be materially adversely affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and regulators, such as through nationalization or expropriation of assets, the imposition of limits on foreign ownership of local companies, changes in laws (including tax laws and regulations), their application or interpretation, political instability, dividend limitations, price controls, changes in applicable currency, currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold to u.s. dollars or other currencies. this may also impact many of our customers and independent sales intermediaries. changes in the regulations that affect their operations also may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or distribute our products. accordingly, these changes and actions may negatively affect our business in these jurisdictions. we expect the scope and extent of regulation outside of the u.s., as well as regulatory oversight, generally to continue to increase. the authority of our international operations to conduct business is subject to licensing requirements, permits and approvals, and these authorizations are subject to modification and revocation. the regulatory environment in the countries in which we operate and changes in laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. see our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability and business international regulation. compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. summary . from time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations or audits of metlife, inc. regulated subsidiaries that could, if determined adversely, have a material impact on us. we cannot predict whether or when regulatory actions may be taken that could adversely affect our operations. in addition, the interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements. we are also subject to other regulations and may in the future become subject to additional regulations. see business u.s. regulation and business international regulation. our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability our international operations are exposed to increased political, legal, financial, operational and other risks. our international operations may be materially adversely affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and regulators, such as through nationalization or expropriation of assets, the imposition of limits on foreign ownership of local companies, changes in laws (including tax laws and regulations), their application or interpretation, political instability, dividend limitations, price controls, changes in applicable currency, currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold into u.s. dollars or other currencies, as well as other adverse actions by foreign governmental authorities and regulators, such as the retroactive application of new requirements to sales made prior to their introduction. such actions may negatively affect our business in these jurisdictions and could indirectly affect our business in other jurisdictions as well. some of our foreign insurance operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where these risks are heightened. see business international regulation, our insurance, brokerage and banking businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in 40 table of contents addition, we rely on local sales forces in these countries and may encounter labor problems resulting from workers associations and trade unions in some countries. in several countries, including china and india, we operate with local business partners with the resulting risk of managing partner relationships to the business objectives. if our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training the sales force in that country. we are expanding our international operations in certain markets where we operate and in selected new markets. this may require considerable management time, as well as start-up expenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. operations in new foreign markets may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in existing markets may be affected by local economic and market conditions. therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not achieve expected operating margins and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. in addition, in recent years, the operating environment in argentina has been very challenging. in argentina, we were formerly principally engaged in the pension business. in december 2008, the argentine government nationalized the social security system and moved pension fund assets into the government-run system, effectively eliminating the private pension companies in argentina. as a result, we have experienced and will continue to experience reductions in the operation revenues and cash flows. in february 2011, the argentine superintendent of insurance ( ssn ) enacted a resolution effectively prohibiting cross-border reinsurance operations. in october 2011, the ssn enacted a resolution which affects our ability to invest and diversify abroad as of december 31, 2011, all investments and funds must be located in argentina. further governmental or legal actions related to our operations in argentina could negatively impact our operations in argentina and result in future losses. see note 16 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. we also have operations in the middle east where the legal and political systems and regulatory frameworks are subject to instability and disruptions. lack of legal certainty and stability in the region exposes our operations to increased risk of disruption and to adverse or unpredictable actions by regulators and may make it more difficult for us to enforce our contracts, which may negatively impact our business in this region. we have market presence in over 50 different countries and increased exposure to risks posed by local and regional economic conditions. europe has recently experienced a deep recession and countries such as italy, spain, portugal, greece and ireland have been particularly affected by the recession, resulting in increased national debts and depressed economic activity. we have significant operations and investments in these countries which could be adversely affected by economic developments such as higher taxes, growing inflation, decreasing government spending, rising unemployment and currency instability. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment. we face increased exposure to the japanese markets as a result of our considerable presence there. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment, and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations results of operations japan. the japanese economy was significantly negatively impacted by the march 2011 earthquake and tsunami, and the resulting serious disruption to power supplies and release of radiation from a damaged nuclear power plant in northeastern japan. the impact of these events is uncertain and difficult to predict. deterioration in japan economic environment could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. any weakening of the yen against the u.s. dollar would adversely affect the estimated fair value of our yen-denominated investments, our investments in japan subsidiaries and our net income from operations in japan. see fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our profitability. changes in market interest rates may also have an adverse effect on our investments and operations in japan. see changes in market interest rates may significantly affect our profitability. 41 table of contents various aspects of dodd-frank could impact our business operations, capital requirements and profitability and limit our growth on july 21, 2010, president obama signed dodd-frank. various provisions of dodd-frank could affect our business operations, capital requirements and profitability and limit our growth. see business u.s. regulation dodd-frank and other legislative and regulatory developments. the addition of a new regulatory regime over us, the likelihood of additional regulations, and the other changes discussed in business u.s. regulation dodd-frank and other legislative and regulatory developments could require changes to our operations. whether such changes would affect our competitiveness in comparison to other institutions is uncertain, since the federal reserve has stated that at least some of our competitors, in particular insurance holding companies that control thrifts, rather than banks, will be similarly affected. competitive effects are possible, however, if metlife, inc. were required to pay any new or increased assessments and/or satisfy additional capital requirements but its competitors were not, and to the extent any new prudential supervisory standards are imposed on metlife, inc. but not on its competitors. the impact could be different if metlife, inc. is no longer subject to regulation as a bank holding company, although it could still be subject to enhanced supervision as a non-bank systemically important financial institution. see business u.s. regulation financial holding company regulation. we cannot predict whether other proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, the adoption of dodd-frank or other proposals and the resulting regulations could have on our business, financial condition or results of operations or on our dealings with other financial companies. see also our insurance, brokerage and banking businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. moreover, dodd-frank potentially affects such a wide range of the activities and markets in which we engage and participate that it may not be possible to anticipate all of the ways in which it could affect us. for example, many of our methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. historical market behavior may be altered by the enactment of dodd-frank. as a result of this enactment and otherwise, these methods may not fully predict future exposures, which could be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate. the resolution of several issues affecting the financial services industry could have a negative impact on our reported results or on our relations with current and potential customers we will continue to be subject to legal and regulatory actions in the ordinary course of our business, both in the u.s. and internationally. this could result in a challenge of business sold in the past under previously acceptable market practices at the time. regulators are increasingly interested in the approach that product providers use to select third-party distributors and to monitor the appropriateness of sales made by them. in some cases, product providers can be held responsible for the deficiencies of third-party distributors. in addition, regulators are auditing compliance by life insurers with state unclaimed property laws. see litigation and regulatory investigations are increasingly common in our businesses and may result in significant financial losses and/or harm to our reputation. as a result of publicity relating to widespread perceptions of industry abuses, there have been numerous regulatory inquiries and proposals for legislative and regulatory reforms. metlife bank mortgage servicing has been the subject of recent inquiries and requests by state and federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities. metlife bank is cooperating with the authorities review of this business. on april 13, 2011, the occ entered into consent decrees with several banks, including metlife bank. the consent decrees require an independent review of foreclosure practices and set forth new residential mortgage servicing standards, including a requirement for a designated point of contact for a borrower during the loss mitigation process. in addition, the federal reserve board entered into consent decrees with the affiliated bank holding companies of these banks, including metlife, inc., to enhance the supervision of the mortgage servicing activities of their banking subsidiaries. in a february 9, 2012 press release, the federal reserve board announced that it had issued monetary sanctions against five banking organizations for deficiencies in the 42 table of contents organizations servicing of residential mortgage loans and processing of foreclosures. the federal reserve board also stated that it plans to announce monetary penalties against six other institutions under its supervision against whom it had issued enforcement actions in 2011 for deficiencies in servicing of residential mortgage loans and processing foreclosures. the federal reserve board did not identify these six institutions, but metlife, inc. is among the institutions that entered into consent decrees with the federal reserve board in 2011. metlife bank has also had a meeting with the department of justice regarding mortgage servicing and foreclosure practices. it is possible that various state or federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities may seek monetary penalties from metlife bank relating to foreclosure practices. metlife bank is responding to a subpoena issued by the new york state department of financial services regarding hazard insurance and flood insurance that metlife bank obtains to protect the lienholder interest when the borrower insurance has lapsed. these consent decrees, as well as the inquiries or investigations referred to above, could adversely affect our reputation or result in material fines, penalties, equitable remedies or other enforcement actions, and result in significant legal costs in responding to governmental investigations or other litigation. we cannot predict the outcome of any such actions or reviews. in addition, the changes to the mortgage servicing business required by the consent decrees and the resolution of any other inquiries or investigations may affect the profitability of such business. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends. the metlife bank events may not relieve metlife from complying with the consent decrees, or protect it from the inquiries and investigations relating to residential mortgage servicing and foreclosure activities, or any fines, penalties, equitable remedies or enforcement actions that may result, the costs of responding to any such governmental investigations, or other litigation. we are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and may cause our net investment income to vary from period to period we are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, market volatility, the performance of the global economy in general, the performance of the specific obligors, including governments, included in our portfolio and other factors outside our control. our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates. changes in interest rates will impact the net unrealized gain or loss position of our fixed income investment portfolio. if long-term interest rates rise dramatically within a six to 12 month time period, certain of our life insurance businesses and fixed annuity business may be exposed to disintermediation risk. disintermediation risk refers to the risk that our policyholders may surrender their contracts in a rising interest rate environment, requiring us to liquidate fixed income investments in an unrealized loss position. due to the long-term nature of the liabilities associated with certain of our life insurance businesses, guaranteed benefits on variable annuities, and structured settlements, sustained declines in long-term interest rates may subject us to reinvestment risks and increased hedging costs. in other situations, declines in interest rates may result in increasing the duration of certain life insurance liabilities, creating asset-liability duration mismatches. our investment portfolio also contains interest rate sensitive instruments, such as fixed income securities, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates from governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. changes in interest rates will impact both the net unrealized gain or loss position of our fixed income portfolio and the rates of return we receive on funds invested. our mitigation efforts with respect to interest rate risk are primarily focused towards maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration that is approximately equal to the duration of our estimated liability cash flow profile. for certain of our liability portfolios, it is not possible to invest assets to the full liability duration, thereby creating some amount of alm mismatch. for this and other reasons, we also use derivative instruments to mitigate interest rate risk. however, our estimate of the liability cash flow profile may be inaccurate and we may be forced to liquidate fixed income 43 table of contents investments prior to maturity at a loss in order to cover the cash flow profile of the liability. although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our fixed income investments relative to our liabilities. see also changes in market interest rates may significantly affect our profitability. our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price volatility and cash flow variability associated with changes in credit spreads. a widening of credit spreads will adversely impact both the net unrealized gain or loss position of the fixed-income investment portfolio, will increase losses associated with credit-based non-qualifying derivatives where we assume credit exposure, and, if issuer credit spreads increase significantly or for an extended period of time, will likely result in higher other-than-temporary impairments ( otti ). credit spread tightening will reduce net investment income associated with new purchases of fixed maturity securities. in addition, market volatility can make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent. as such, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period-to-period changes which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if there is a resumption of significant volatility in the markets, it could cause changes in credit spreads and defaults and a lack of pricing transparency which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses, impairments, and changes in unrealized loss positions. our primary exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with certain of our insurance businesses where fee income is earned based upon the estimated fair value of the assets under management. downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a material adverse effect on the revenues and investment returns from our savings and investment products and services. because these products and services generate fees related primarily to the value of assets under management, a decline in the equity markets could reduce our revenues from the reduction in the value of the investments we manage. the retail variable annuity business in particular is highly sensitive to equity markets, and a sustained weakness in the equity markets could decrease revenues and earnings in variable annuity products. furthermore, certain of our variable annuity products offer guaranteed benefits which increase our potential benefit exposure should equity markets decline. we use derivatives and reinsurance to mitigate the impact of such increased potential benefit exposures. we are also exposed to interest rate and equity risk based upon the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return assumptions associated with our pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. sustained declines in long-term interest rates or equity returns likely would have a negative effect on the funded status of these plans. lastly, we invest a portion of our investments in public and private equity securities, leveraged buy-out funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds and the estimated fair value of such investments may be impacted by downturns or volatility in equity markets. our primary exposure to real estate risk relates to commercial and agricultural real estate. our exposure to commercial and agricultural real estate risk stems from various factors. these factors include, but are not limited to, market conditions including the demand and supply of leasable commercial space, creditworthiness of tenants and partners, capital markets volatility and the inherent interest rate movement. in addition, our real estate joint venture development program is subject to risks, including, but not limited to, reduced property sales and decreased availability of financing which could adversely impact the joint venture developments and/or operations. the state of the economy and speed of recovery in fundamental and capital market conditions in the commercial and agricultural real estate sectors will continue to influence the performance of our investments in these sectors. these factors and others beyond our control could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows through net investment income, realized investment losses and levels of valuation allowances. our investment portfolio contains investments in government bonds issued by certain european union member states, including portugal, ireland, italy, greece and spain, commonly referred to as europe perimeter region, as well as cyprus, and in financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by those nations. recently, the european union member states have experienced above average public debt, inflation and unemployment as the global economic downturn has developed. a number of member states are significantly impacted by the economies of their more influential neighbors, such as germany. 44 table of contents in addition, financial troubles of one nation can lead to troubles in others. in particular, a number of large european banks hold significant amounts of sovereign and/or financial institution debt of other european nations and could experience difficulties as a result of defaults or declines in the value of such debt. these difficulties or concern that they may occur could disrupt the functioning of the financial markets. our investment portfolio also contains investments in revenue bonds issued under the auspices of u.s. states and municipalities and a limited amount of general obligation bonds of u.s. states and municipalities (collectively, municipal bonds ). recently, certain u.s. states and municipalities have faced budget deficits and financial difficulties. there can be no assurance that the financial difficulties of such u.s. states and municipalities would not have an adverse impact on our municipal bond portfolio. a possible result of the disruption in europe is the withdrawal of one or more countries from the euro zone. the extent to which our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net investment income would be affected by any such withdrawal will depend on a number of factors, including the identity of the withdrawing country and the likelihood that other counties will follow suit. risks related to any such withdrawal could include overall economic disruption; capital flight, with attendant risks to the integrity of the european union banking system; conversion to a national currency, which may be subject to devaluation as discussed further below; inflation risks; increased costs and diminished effectiveness in hedging against declines in the value of the euro; declines in the value of our investments; credit losses; and an increase in foreign currency exchange rate risks, among others. our primary foreign currency exchange risks are described under fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our profitability. changes in these factors, which are significant risks to us, can affect our net investment income in any period, and such changes can be substantial. foreign currency exchange risk will increase if a country withdraws from the euro zone. the national currency to which such a country may revert will likely be devalued and contracts using the euro will need to be renegotiated. it is possible that any such devaluation could be significant. we cannot predict the extent of such a devaluation, or the effect of it on our contracts, on our investments in bonds governed by the law of any such country, or on our investments in financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by any such country. any operations we may have in any such withdrawing country could also be materially adversely affected by legal or governmental actions related to conversion from the euro to a national currency. a portion of our investments is made in leveraged buy-out funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds, many of which make private equity investments. the amount and timing of net investment income from such investment funds tends to be uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying investments, including private equity investments. the timing of distributions from the funds, which depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds schedules for making distributions and their needs for cash, can be difficult to predict. as a result, the amount of net investment income that we record from these investments can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. significant volatility could adversely impact returns and net investment income on these alternative investment classes. in addition, the extent to which metlife, inc. can continue to invest in such funds is uncertain under dodd-frank. continuing challenges include continued weakness in the u.s. real estate market, investor anxiety over the u.s. and european economies, defaults or declines in the value of sovereign or financial institution debt, rating agency downgrades of various structured products and financial issuers, unresolved issues with structured investment vehicles and monoline financial guarantee insurers, deleveraging of financial institutions and hedge funds, sustained high levels of unemployment and the continuing recovery in the inter-bank market. significant volatility in the markets could cause changes in interest rates, declines in equity prices, and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses, impairments, increased valuation allowances and changes in unrealized gain or loss positions. changes in market interest rates may significantly affect our profitability some of our products, principally traditional whole life insurance, fixed annuities and guaranteed interest contracts, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our investment margin or spread, or 45 table of contents the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts in our general account and the rate of return we are able to earn on general account investments intended to support obligations under the contracts. our spread is a key component of our net income. as interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, reducing our investment margin. moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the fixed income securities, commercial or agricultural mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities in our investment portfolio with greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates, which exacerbates this risk. lowering interest crediting rates can help offset decreases in investment margins on some products. however, our ability to lower these rates could be limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. as a result, our spread could decrease or potentially become negative. our expectation for future spreads is an important component in the amortization of dac and value of business acquired ( voba ), and significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period. in addition, during periods of declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be relatively more attractive investments to consumers, resulting in increased premium payments on products with flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans and increased persistency, or a higher percentage of insurance policies remaining in force from year to year, during a period when our new investments carry lower returns. a decline in market interest rates could also reduce our return on investments that do not support particular policy obligations. accordingly, declining interest rates may materially affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows and significantly reduce our profitability. in january 2012, the federal reserve board announced its plans to keep interest rates low until at least through late 2014, 18 months longer than previously planned. increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect our profitability. in periods of rapidly increasing interest rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, the investments in our general account with higher yielding investments needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep interest sensitive products competitive. we, therefore, may have to accept a lower spread and, thus, lower profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of existing contracts and related assets. in addition, policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals may tend to increase as policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns as interest rates rise. this process may result in cash outflows requiring that we sell investments at a time when the prices of those investments are adversely affected by the increase in market interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses. unanticipated withdrawals and terminations may cause us to accelerate the amortization of dac and voba, which reduces net income and may also cause us to accelerate negative voba, which increases net income. an increase in market interest rates could also have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the estimated fair values of the fixed income securities that comprise a substantial portion of our investment portfolio. finally, an increase in interest rates could result in decreased fee income associated with a decline in the value of variable annuity account balances invested in fixed income funds. some of our investments are relatively illiquid and are in asset classes that have been experiencing significant market valuation fluctuations we hold certain investments that may lack liquidity, such as privately-placed fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, policy loans and leveraged leases, equity real estate, including real estate joint ventures and funds, and other limited partnership interests. these asset classes represented 28.3% of the carrying value of our total cash and investments at december 31, 2011. in recent years, even some of our very high quality investments experienced reduced liquidity during periods of market volatility or disruption. if we require significant amounts of cash on short notice in excess of normal cash requirements or are required to post or return cash collateral in connection with our investment portfolio, derivatives transactions or securities lending program, we may have difficulty selling these investments in a timely manner, be forced to sell them for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize, or both. the reported value of our relatively illiquid types of investments, our investments in the asset classes described above and, at times, our high quality, generally liquid asset classes, do not necessarily reflect the lowest current market price for the asset. if we were forced to sell certain of our 46 table of contents investments in the global market, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sell them for the prices at which we have recorded them and we could be forced to sell them at significantly lower prices. some provisions of dodd-frank may lower the prices for certain fund investments by forcing them to be sold over a relatively short period of time. our participation in a securities lending program subjects us to potential liquidity and other risks we participate in a securities lending program whereby blocks of securities, which are included in fixed maturity securities and short-term investments, are loaned to third parties, primarily brokerage firms and commercial banks. we obtain collateral, usually cash, in an amount generally equal to 102% of the estimated fair value of the securities loaned, which is obtained at the inception of a loan and maintained at a level greater than or equal to 100% for the duration of the loan. returns of loaned securities by the third parties would require us to return the collateral associated with such loaned securities. in addition, in some cases, the maturity of the securities held as invested collateral (i.e., securities that we have purchased with cash collateral received from the third parties) may exceed the term of the related securities on loan and the estimated fair value may fall below the amount of cash received as collateral and invested. if we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral on short notice and we are forced to sell securities to meet the return obligation, we may have difficulty selling such collateral that is invested in securities in a timely manner, be forced to sell securities in a volatile or illiquid market for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize under normal market conditions, or both. in addition, under stressful capital market and economic conditions, liquidity broadly deteriorates, which may further restrict our ability to sell securities. if we decrease the amount of our securities lending activities over time, the amount of net investment income generated by these activities will also likely decline. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments securities lending and note 3 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. our requirements to pledge collateral or make payments related to declines in estimated fair value of specified assets may adversely affect our liquidity and expose us to counterparty credit risk some of our transactions with financial and other institutions specify the circumstances under which the parties are required to pledge collateral related to any decline in the estimated fair value of the specified assets. in addition, under the terms of some of our transactions, we may be required to make payments to our counterparties related to any decline in the estimated fair value of the specified assets. the amount of collateral we may be required to pledge and the payments we may be required to make under these agreements may increase under certain circumstances and will likely increase under dodd-frank, which could adversely affect our liquidity. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital sources collateral financing arrangements, business u.s. regulation dodd-frank and other legislative and regulatory developments and note 12 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities and defaults, downgrades or other events may result in future impairments to the carrying value of such securities, resulting in a reduction in our net income fixed maturity securities represent a significant portion of our investment portfolio. fixed maturity and equity securities classified as available-for-sale are reported at their estimated fair value. unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale securities are recognized as a component of other comprehensive income (loss) and are, therefore, excluded from net income. our gross unrealized gains and gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities available for sale at december 31, 2011 were $26.1 billion and $5.8 billion, respectively. the portion of the $5.8 billion of gross unrealized losses for fixed maturity and equity securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below amortized cost or cost by 20% or more for six months or greater was $1.4 billion at december 31, 2011. the accumulated change in estimated fair value of these available-for-sale securities is recognized in net income when the gain or loss is realized upon the sale of the security or in the event that the decline in estimated fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary and an impairment charge to earnings is taken. 47 table of contents the occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening risk spreads, or other events that adversely affect the issuers, guarantors or underlying collateral of structured securities could cause the estimated fair value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio and our earnings to decline and the default rate of the fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio to increase. a ratings downgrade affecting issuers or guarantors of particular securities, or similar trends that could worsen the credit quality of issuers, such as the corporate issuers of securities in our investment portfolio, could also have a similar effect. with economic uncertainty, credit quality of issuers or guarantors could be adversely affected. similarly, a ratings downgrade affecting a security we hold could indicate the credit quality of that security has deteriorated and could increase the capital we must hold to support that security to maintain our rbc levels. levels of writedowns or impairments are impacted by our assessment of intent to sell, or whether it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell, fixed maturity securities and the intent and ability to hold equity securities which have declined in value until recovery. if we determine to reposition or realign portions of the portfolio so as not to hold certain equity securities, or intend to sell or determine that it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell, certain fixed maturity securities in an unrealized loss position prior to recovery, then we will incur an otti charge in the period that the decision was made not to hold the equity security to recovery, or to sell, or the determination was made it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the fixed maturity security. realized losses or impairments may have a material adverse effect on our net income in a particular quarterly or annual period. the determination of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on our investments is subjective and could materially impact our results of operations or financial position the determination of the amount of allowances and impairments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. we update our evaluations regularly and reflect changes in allowances and impairments in net investment losses as such evaluations are revised. additional impairments may need to be taken or allowances provided for in the future. furthermore, historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances. for example, the cost of our fixed maturity and equity securities is adjusted for impairments deemed to be other-than-temporary. the assessment of whether impairments have occurred is based on our case-by-case evaluation of the underlying reasons for the decline in estimated fair value. the review of our fixed maturity and equity securities for impairment includes an analysis of gross unrealized losses by three categories of securities: (i) securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by less than 20%; (ii) securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for less than six months; and (iii) securities where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below cost or amortized cost by 20% or more for six months or greater. additionally, we consider a wide range of factors about the security issuer and use our best judgment in evaluating the cause of the decline in the estimated fair value of the security and in assessing the prospects for near-term recovery. inherent in our evaluation of the security are assumptions and estimates about the operations of the issuer and its future earnings potential. considerations in the impairment evaluation process include, but are not limited to: (i) the length of time and the extent to which the estimated fair value has been below cost or amortized cost; (ii) the potential for impairments of securities when the issuer is experiencing significant financial difficulties; (iii) the potential for impairments in an entire industry sector or sub-sector; (iv) the potential for impairments in certain economically depressed geographic locations; (v) the potential for impairments of securities where the issuer, series of issuers or industry has suffered a catastrophic type of loss or has exhausted natural resources; (vi) with respect to fixed maturity securities, whether we have the intent to sell or will more likely than not be required to sell a particular security before recovery of the decline in estimated fair value below cost or amortized cost; (vii) with respect to equity securities, whether we have the ability and intent to hold a particular security for a period of time sufficient to allow for the recovery of its estimated fair value to an amount at least equal to its cost; (viii) with respect to structured securities, changes in forecasted cash flows after considering the quality of the underlying collateral; timing of expected prepayment; current and 48 table of contents forecasted loss severity; consideration of the payment terms of the underlying assets backing a particular security; and the payment priority within the tranche structure of the security; and (ix) other subjective factors, including concentrations and information obtained from regulators and rating agencies. defaults on our mortgage loans and volatility in performance may adversely affect our profitability our mortgage loans face default risk and are principally collateralized by commercial, agricultural and residential properties. we establish valuation allowances for estimated impairments at the balance sheet date. such valuation allowances are based on the excess carrying value of the loan over the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan original effective interest rate, the estimated fair value of the loan collateral if the loan is in the process of foreclosure or otherwise collateral dependent, or the loan observable market price. we also establish valuation allowances for loan losses for pools of loans with similar risk characteristics, such as property types, loan-to-value ratios and debt service coverage ratios when, based on past experience, it is probable that a credit event has occurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. these valuation allowances are based on loan risk characteristics, historical default rates and loss severities, real estate market fundamentals and outlook, as well as other relevant factors. at december 31, 2011, mortgage loans that were either delinquent or in the process of foreclosure totaled less than 0.4% of our mortgage loan investments. the performance of our mortgage loan investments, however, may fluctuate in the future. in addition, substantially all of our mortgage loans held-for-investment have balloon payment maturities. an increase in the default rate of our mortgage loan investments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition through realized investment losses or increases in our valuation allowances. further, any geographic or sector concentration of our mortgage loans may have adverse effects on our investment portfolios and consequently on our results of operations or financial condition. while we seek to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated. moreover, our ability to sell assets relating to such particular groups of related assets may be limited if other market participants are seeking to sell at the same time. in addition, legislative proposals that would allow or require modifications to the terms of mortgage loans could be enacted. we cannot predict whether these proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business or investments. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments mortgage loans. the defaults or deteriorating credit of other financial institutions could adversely affect us we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge funds and other investment funds and other institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. in addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. we also have exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments, non-redeemable and redeemable preferred securities, derivative transactions, joint venture, hedge fund and equity investments. further, potential action by governments and regulatory bodies in response to the financial crisis affecting the global banking system and financial markets, such as investment, nationalization, conservatorship, receivership and other intervention, whether under existing legal authority or any new authority that may be created, or lack of action by european union member governments and central banks, as well as deterioration in the banks credit standing, could negatively impact these instruments, securities, transactions and investments or limit the company ability to trade with them. there can be no assurance that any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these investments or other changes would not materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 49 table of contents we face unforeseen liabilities, asset impairments or rating actions arising from acquisitions, including alico, and dispositions of businesses or difficulties integrating and managing growth of such businesses we have engaged in dispositions and acquisitions of businesses in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future. acquisition and disposition activity exposes us to a number of risks. there could be unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments, including goodwill impairments, that arise in connection with the businesses that we may sell or the businesses that we may acquire in the future. in addition, there may be liabilities or asset impairments that we fail, or are unable, to discover in the course of performing due diligence investigations on each business that we have acquired or may acquire. furthermore, even for obligations and liabilities that we do discover during the due diligence process, neither the valuation adjustment nor the contractual protections we negotiate may be sufficient to fully protect us from losses. for example, in connection with the acquisition of alico, we may be exposed to obligations and liabilities of alico that are not adequately covered, in amount, scope or duration, by the indemnification provisions in the stock purchase agreement, dated as of march 7, 2010 (as amended, the stock purchase agreement ), entered into in connection with the acquisition, by and among metlife, inc., aig and am holdings, or reflected or reserved for in alico historical financial statements. although we have rights to indemnification from am holdings under the stock purchase agreement for certain losses, our rights are limited by survival periods for bringing claims and monetary limitations on the amount we may recover, and we cannot be certain that indemnification will be, among other things, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any loss we may suffer. we are indemnified under the stock purchase agreement for various tax matters, including u.s. federal income taxes attributable to periods during which the alico business was included in aig consolidated federal income tax return. we cannot be certain that any such indemnification will ultimately be fully collectible. furthermore, the use of our own funds as consideration in any acquisition would consume capital resources, which could affect our capital plan and render those funds unavailable for other corporate purposes. we also may not be able to raise sufficient funds to consummate an acquisition if, for example, we are unable to sell our securities or close related bridge credit facilities. moreover, as a result of uncertainty and risks associated with potential acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, rating agencies may take certain actions with respect to the ratings assigned to metlife, inc. and/or its subsidiaries. our ability to achieve certain benefits we anticipate from any acquisitions of businesses will depend in large part upon our ability to successfully integrate such businesses in an efficient and effective manner. we may not be able to integrate such businesses smoothly or successfully, and the process may take longer than expected. the integration of operations and differences in operational culture may require the dedication of significant management resources, which may distract management attention from day-to-day business. if we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of such acquired businesses, we may be unable to realize the benefits we expect to achieve as a result of such acquisitions and our business and results of operations may be less than expected. the success with which we are able to integrate acquired operations will depend on our ability to manage a variety of issues, including the following: loss of key personnel or higher than expected employee attrition rates could adversely affect the performance of the acquired business and our ability to integrate it successfully. customers of the acquired business may reduce, delay or defer decisions concerning their use of its products and services as a result of the acquisition or uncertainty related to the consummation of the acquisition, including, for example, potential unfamiliarity with the metlife brand in regions where we did not have a market presence prior to the acquisition. 50 table of contents if the acquired business relies upon independent distributors to distribute its products, these distributors may not continue to generate the same volume of business for us after the acquisition. independent distributors may reexamine the scope of their relationship with the acquired business or us as a result of the acquisition and decide to curtail or eliminate distribution of our products. integrating acquired operations with our existing operations may require us to coordinate geographically separated organizations, address possible differences in corporate culture and management philosophies, merge financial processes and risk and compliance procedures, combine separate information technology platforms and integrate operations that were previously closely tied to the former parent of the acquired business or other service providers. in cases where we or an acquired business operates in certain markets through joint ventures, the acquisition may affect the continued success and prospects of the joint venture. our ability to exercise management control or influence over these joint venture operations and our investment in them will depend on the continued cooperation between the joint venture participants and on the terms of the joint venture agreements, which allocate control among the joint venture participants. we may face financial or other exposure in the event that any of these joint venture partners fail to meet their obligations under the joint venture, encounter financial difficulty or elect to alter, modify or terminate the relationship. we may incur significant costs in connection with any acquisition and the related integration. the costs and liabilities actually incurred in connection with an acquisition and subsequent integration process may exceed those anticipated. all of these challenges are present in our integration of alico, which we expect to extend over a substantial period. the prospects of our business also may be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to manage the growth of any acquired business successfully. for example, the life insurance markets in many of the international markets we entered through the acquisition have experienced significant growth in recent years. management of growth in these markets to date has required significant management and operational resources and is likely to continue to do so. future growth of our combined business will require, among other things, the continued development of adequate underwriting and claim handling capabilities and skills, sufficient capital base, increased marketing and sales activities, and the hiring and training of new personnel. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in managing future growth of any acquired business. in particular, there may be difficulties in hiring and training sufficient numbers of customer service personnel and agents to keep pace with any future growth in the number of customers in our developing or developed markets. in addition, we may experience difficulties in upgrading, developing and expanding information technology systems quickly enough to accommodate any future growth. if we are unable to manage future growth, our prospects may be materially and adversely affected. there can be no assurance that the closing agreement american life entered into with the irs will achieve its intended effect, or that american life will be able to comply with the related agreed upon plan on march 4, 2010, american life entered into a closing agreement with the commissioner of the irs with respect to a u.s. withholding tax issue arising from payments by foreign branches of a life insurance company incorporated under u.s. law. irs revenue ruling 2004-75, effective january 1, 2005, requires foreign branches of u.s. life insurance companies in certain circumstances to withhold u.s. income taxes on payments of taxable income made with respect to certain insurance and annuity products paid to customers resident in a foreign country. the closing agreement provides transitional relief under section 7805(b) of the code to american life, such that american life foreign branches will not be required to withhold u.s. income tax on the income portion of payments made pursuant to american life life insurance and annuity contracts ( covered payments ) under irs revenue ruling 2004-75 for any tax periods beginning on january 1, 2005 and ending on december 31, 2013 (the deferral period ). in accordance with the closing agreement, american life submitted 51 table of contents a plan to the irs indicating the steps american life will take (on a country by country basis) to ensure that no substantial amount of u.s. withholding tax will arise from covered payments made by american life foreign branches to foreign customers after the deferral period. in addition, the closing agreement requires that such plan be updated in quarterly filings with the irs. the closing agreement is final and binding upon american life and the irs; provided, however, that the agreement can be reopened in the event of malfeasance, fraud or a misrepresentation of a material fact, and is subject to change of law risk that occurs after the effective date of the closing agreement (with certain exceptions). in addition, the closing agreement provides that no legislative amendment to section 861(a)(1)(a) of the code shall shorten the deferral period, regardless of when such amendment is enacted. the plan american life delivered to the irs involves the transfer of businesses from certain of the foreign branches of american life to one or more existing or newly-formed foreign affiliates of american life; however, the plan is subject to change pursuant to the quarterly updates that american life will provide to the irs. an estimate of the costs to comply with the plan has been recorded in the financial statements. also the achievement of the plan presented to the irs within the required time frame of december 31, 2013 is contingent upon regulatory approvals and other requirements. failure to achieve the plan in a timely manner could cause american life to be required to withhold u.s. income taxes on the taxable portion of payments made by american life foreign branches after december 31, 2013 to customers resident in a foreign country, which could put american life at a competitive disadvantage with its competitors that sell similar products through foreign entities and could have a material adverse effect on american life future revenues or expenses or both. the settlement of common equity units issued in connection with the acquisition will have a dilutive impact on metlife, inc. stockholders as part of the consideration paid to am holdings pursuant to the terms of the stock purchase agreement, metlife, inc. issued $3.0 billion aggregate stated amount of common equity units, which initially consist of (x) purchase contracts obligating the holder to purchase a variable number of shares of metlife, inc. common stock on each of three specified future settlement dates (expected to occur on october 10, 2012, september 11, 2013 and october 8, 2014, subject to deferral under certain circumstances) for a fixed amount per purchase contract (an aggregate of $1.0 billion on each settlement date) (the stock purchase contracts ) and (y) an interest in each of three series of debt securities of metlife, inc. am holdings subsequently sold all of the common equity units in a public offering. the aggregate amount of metlife, inc. common stock issuable upon settlement of the stock purchase contracts is expected to be approximately 67.8 million to 84.7 million shares. as a result, more shares of common stock will be outstanding and each existing stockholder will own a smaller percentage of our common stock then outstanding. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our profitability we are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar resulting from our holdings of non-u.s. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries and net income from foreign operations and issuance of non-u.s. dollar denominated instruments, including guaranteed interest contracts and funding agreements. these risks relate to potential decreases in estimated fair value and income resulting from a strengthening or weakening in foreign exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar. in general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the u.s. dollar will adversely affect the estimated fair value of our non-u.s. dollar denominated investments, our investments in foreign subsidiaries, and our net income from foreign operations. although we use foreign currency derivatives to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk, we cannot provide assurance that these methods will be effective or that our counterparties will perform their obligations. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. from time to time, various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies. our exposure to foreign exchange rate risk is exacerbated by our investments in certain emerging markets. historically, we have matched substantially all of our foreign currency liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with investments denominated in their respective foreign currency, which limits the effect of currency exchange 52 table of contents rate fluctuation on local operating results; however, fluctuations in such rates affect the translation of these results into our u.s. dollar basis consolidated financial statements. although we take certain actions to address this risk, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation could materially adversely affect our reported results due to unhedged positions or the failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we face substantial exposure to risks associated with fluctuations in the yen/ u.s. dollar exchange rate because we now have substantial operations in japan and a significant portion of our premiums and investment income in japan are received in yen. most claims and expenses associated with our operations in japan are also paid in yen and we primarily purchase yen-denominated assets to support yen-denominated policy liabilities. these and other yen-denominated financial statement items are, however, translated into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. accordingly, fluctuations in the yen/u.s. dollar exchange rate can have a significant effect on our reported financial position and results of operations. our japan operation does assume some currency exposure by backing a portion of surplus and yen denominated liabilities with u.s. dollar assets. although this represents risk to our japan operation, this activity reduces yen exposure at the enterprise level. due to our significant international operations, during periods when any foreign currency in which we derive our revenues (such as the japanese yen) weakens, translating amounts expressed in that currency into u.s. dollars causes fewer u.s. dollars to be reported. when the relevant foreign currency strengthens, translating such currency into u.s. dollars causes more u.s. dollars to be reported. any unrealized foreign currency translation adjustments are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). the weakening of a foreign currency relative to the u.s. dollar will generally adversely affect the value of investments in u.s. dollar terms and reduce the level of reserves denominated in that currency. as a holding company, metlife, inc. depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to transfer funds to it to meet its obligations and pay dividends metlife, inc. is a holding company for its insurance and financial subsidiaries and does not have any significant operations of its own. dividends from its subsidiaries and permitted payments to it under its tax sharing arrangements with its subsidiaries are its principal sources of cash to meet its obligations and to pay preferred and common stock dividends. if the cash metlife, inc. receives from its subsidiaries is insufficient for it to fund its debt service and other holding company obligations, metlife, inc. may be required to raise cash through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of additional equity or the sale of assets. the payment of dividends and other distributions to metlife, inc. by its u.s. insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. in general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits require insurance regulatory approval. in addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of dividends or other payments by its insurance subsidiaries to metlife, inc. if they determine that the payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. the payment of dividends and other distributions by insurance companies is also influenced by business conditions and rating agency considerations. see business u.s. regulation insurance regulation and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources metlife, inc. liquidity and capital sources dividends from subsidiaries. the ability of metlife bank to pay dividends is also subject to regulation by the occ. see also our insurance, brokerage and banking businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or advances by our foreign subsidiaries and branches to metlife, inc. could be subject to taxation or other restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdiction in which such foreign subsidiaries operate. see business international regulation and our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability. 53 table of contents a downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could result in a loss of business and materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations financial strength ratings, which various nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ( nrsro ) publish as indicators of an insurance company ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations, are important to maintaining public confidence in our products, our ability to market our products and our competitive position. downgrades in our financial strength ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including: reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other investment products; adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and independent sales intermediaries; materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders; requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and services to remain competitive; and adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices or at all. in addition to the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries, various nrsros also publish credit ratings for metlife, inc. and several of its subsidiaries. credit ratings are indicators of a debt issuer ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner and are important factors in our overall funding profile and ability to access certain types of liquidity. downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including adversely limiting our access to capital markets, potentially increasing the cost of debt, and requiring us to post collateral. see note 4 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding the impact of a one-notch downgrade with respect to derivative transactions with credit rating downgrade triggers. also, at december 31, 2011, $188 million of liabilities associated with funding agreements and other capital market products were subject to credit ratings downgrade triggers that permit early termination subject to a notice period of 90 days. in view of the difficulties experienced by many financial institutions as a result of the global recession, including our competitors in the insurance industry, we believe it is possible that the nrsros will continue to heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to such institutions, will continue to increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, will continue to request additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the nrsro models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. rating agencies use an outlook statement of positive, stable, negative or developing to indicate a medium- or long-term trend in credit fundamentals which, if continued, may lead to a ratings change. a rating may have a stable outlook to indicate that the rating is not expected to change; however, a stable rating does not preclude a rating agency from changing a rating at any time, without notice. certain rating agencies assign rating modifiers such as creditwatch or under review to indicate their opinion regarding the potential direction of a rating. these ratings modifiers are generally assigned in connection with certain events such as potential mergers and acquisitions, or material changes in a company results, in order for the rating agencies to perform their analyses to fully determine the rating implications of the event. we cannot predict what actions rating agencies may take, or what actions we may take in response to the actions of rating agencies, which could adversely affect our business. as with other companies in the financial services industry, our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without any notice by any nrsro. an inability to access our credit facilities could result in a reduction in our liquidity and lead to downgrades in our credit and financial strength ratings in august 2011, we entered into a $3 billion unsecured five-year credit agreement by amending and restating our october 2010 unsecured 364-day credit agreement, and reduced the outstanding commitment under our 54 table of contents october 2010 unsecured three-year credit facility to $1 billion. we also have other facilities which we enter into in the ordinary course of business. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital sources credit and committed facilities and note 11 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. we rely on our credit facilities as a potential source of liquidity. the availability of these facilities could be critical to our credit and financial strength ratings and our ability to meet our obligations as they come due in a market when alternative sources of credit are tight. the credit facilities contain certain administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants. we must comply with covenants under our credit facilities, including a requirement to maintain a specified minimum consolidated net worth. our right to borrow funds under these facilities is subject to the fulfillment of certain important conditions, including our compliance with all covenants, and our ability to borrow under these facilities is also subject to the continued willingness and ability of the lenders that are parties to the facilities to provide funds. our failure to comply with the covenants in the credit facilities or fulfill the conditions to borrowings, or the failure of lenders to fund their lending commitments (whether due to insolvency, illiquidity or other reasons) in the amounts provided for under the terms of the facilities, would restrict our ability to access these credit facilities when needed and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business management of risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events. we have devoted significant resources to develop and periodically update our risk management policies and procedures to reflect ongoing review of our risks and expect to continue to do so in the future. nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not be comprehensive. many of our methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. as a result, these methods may not fully predict future exposures, which can be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate. other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. this information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. in addition, more extensive and perhaps different risk management policies and procedures might have to be implemented under regulation yy. see business u.s. regulation financial holding company regulation and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses as part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various business segments. see business reinsurance activity. while reinsurance agreements generally bind the reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured at generally fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new business. in certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for business already reinsured may also increase. any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to those policies we issue. if the counterparties to our reinsurance or indemnification arrangements or to the derivative instruments we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations we use reinsurance, indemnification and derivative instruments to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. in general, reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is 55 table of contents liable to us. accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers and indemnitors. we cannot provide assurance that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverables owed to us or that indemnitors will honor their obligations now or in the future or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. a reinsurer or indemnitor insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of reinsurance agreements or indemnity agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various business risks. we enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit default and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments. if our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivative instruments, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. this is a more pronounced risk to us in view of the stresses suffered by financial institutions over the past few years. such failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. differences between actual claims experience and underwriting and reserving assumptions may adversely affect our financial results our earnings significantly depend upon the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in setting prices for our products and establishing liabilities for future policy benefits and claims. our liabilities for future policy benefits and claims are established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims. for life insurance and annuity products, we calculate these liabilities based on many assumptions and estimates, including estimated premiums to be received over the assumed life of the policy, the timing of the event covered by the insurance policy, the amount of benefits or claims to be paid and the investment returns on the investments we make with the premiums we receive. we establish liabilities for property and casualty claims and benefits based on assumptions and estimates of damages and liabilities incurred. to the extent that actual claims experience is less favorable than the underlying assumptions we used in establishing such liabilities, we could be required to increase our liabilities. due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of liabilities for future policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely the amounts which we will ultimately pay to settle our liabilities. such amounts may vary from the estimated amounts, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future. we evaluate our liabilities periodically based on accounting requirements, which change from time to time, the assumptions used to establish the liabilities, as well as our actual experience. we charge or credit changes in our liabilities to expenses in the period the liabilities are established or re-estimated. if the liabilities originally established for future benefit payments prove inadequate, we must increase them. such increases could affect earnings negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. catastrophes may adversely impact liabilities for policyholder claims and reinsurance availability our insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic events. the extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however, hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis and man-made catastrophes may produce significant damage or loss of life in larger areas, especially those that are heavily populated. claims resulting from natural or man-made catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition. also, catastrophic events could harm the financial condition of issuers of obligations we hold in our investment portfolio, resulting in impairments to these obligations, and the financial condition of our reinsurers and thereby increase the probability of default on reinsurance recoveries. large-scale catastrophes may also reduce the overall level of economic activity in affected countries which could hurt our business and the value of our investments. our ability to write new business could also be affected. it is possible that increases in the value, caused by the effects of inflation or other factors, and geographic concentration of insured property, could increase the severity of claims from catastrophic events in the future. 56 table of contents our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that causes a large number of deaths. significant influenza pandemics have occurred three times in the last century; however the likelihood, timing, and severity of a future pandemic cannot be predicted. a significant pandemic could have a major impact on the global economy or the economies of particular countries or regions, including travel, trade, tourism, the health system, food supply, consumption, overall economic output and, eventually, on the financial markets. in addition, a pandemic that affected our employees or the employees of our distributors or of other companies with which we do business could disrupt our business operations. the effectiveness of external parties, including governmental and non-governmental organizations, in combating the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have a material impact on the losses experienced by us. in our group insurance operations, a localized event that affects the workplace of one or more of our group insurance customers could cause a significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims. these events could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any period and, depending on their severity, could also materially and adversely affect our financial condition. our auto &amp; home business has experienced, and will likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses that may have a material adverse impact on the business, results of operations and financial condition of the auto &amp; home segment. although auto &amp; home makes every effort to manage our exposure to catastrophic risks through volatility management and reinsurance programs, these efforts do not eliminate all risk. catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards), fires and man-made events such as terrorist attacks. historically, substantially all of our catastrophe-related claims have related to homeowners coverages. however, catastrophes may also affect other auto &amp; home coverages. due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence, timing and severity of catastrophes. in addition, changing climate conditions, primarily rising global temperatures, may be increasing, or may in the future increase, the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes such as hurricanes. hurricanes and earthquakes are of particular note for our homeowners coverages. areas of major hurricane exposure include coastal sections of the northeastern u.s. (including lower new york, connecticut, rhode island and massachusetts), the gulf coast (including alabama, mississippi, louisiana and texas) and florida. we also have some earthquake exposure, primarily along the new madrid fault line in the central u.s. and in the pacific northwest. most of the jurisdictions in which our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business require life and property and casualty insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations, which are organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers. these associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is engaged. in addition, certain states have government owned or controlled organizations providing life and property and casualty insurance to their citizens. the activities of such organizations could also place additional stress on the adequacy of guaranty fund assessments. many of these organizations also have the power to levy assessments similar to those of the guaranty associations described above. some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. see business u.s. regulation insurance regulation guaranty associations and similar arrangements and business international regulation. while in the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied against metlife, inc. insurance subsidiaries have not been material, it is possible that a large catastrophic event could render such guaranty funds inadequate and we may be called upon to contribute additional amounts, which may have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations in a particular period. we have established liabilities for guaranty fund assessments that we consider adequate, but additional liabilities may be necessary. see note 16 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we establish liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. we cannot be certain that the 57 table of contents liabilities we have established will be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities. from time to time, states have passed legislation that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage risk, such as legislation restricting an insurer ability to withdraw from catastrophe-prone areas. while we attempt to limit our exposure to acceptable levels, subject to restrictions imposed by insurance regulatory authorities, a catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our ability to manage this risk and the profitability of our property and casualty and life insurance businesses depends in part on our ability to obtain catastrophe reinsurance, which may not be available at commercially acceptable rates in the future. see reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses. our statutory reserve financings may be subject to cost increases and new financings may be subject to limited market capacity to support statutory reserves for several products, including, but not limited to, our level premium term life and universal life with secondary guarantees and mlic closed block, we currently utilize capital markets solutions for financing a portion of our statutory reserve requirements. while we have financing facilities in place for our previously written business and have remaining capacity in existing facilities to support writings through the end of 2011 or later, certain of these facilities are subject to cost increases upon the occurrence of specified ratings downgrades of metlife or are subject to periodic repricing. any resulting cost increases could negatively impact our financial results. future capacity for these statutory reserve funding structures in the marketplace is not guaranteed. if capacity becomes unavailable for a prolonged period of time, hindering our ability to obtain funding for these new structures, our ability to write additional business in a cost effective manner may be impacted. competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability our segments are subject to intense competition. we believe that this competition is based on a number of factors, including service, product features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, e-business capabilities and name recognition. we compete in the u.s. and internationally, with a large number of other insurance companies, as well as non-insurance financial services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset managers, for individual consumers, employers and other group customers and agents and other distributors of insurance and investment products. some of these companies offer a broader array of products, have more competitive pricing or, with respect to other insurance companies, have higher claims paying ability ratings. some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete. national banks, which may sell annuity products of life insurers in some circumstances, also have pre-existing customer bases for financial services products. many of our group insurance products are underwritten annually, and, accordingly, there is a risk that group purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors rather than renewing coverage with us. the effect of competition may, as a result, adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell products in the future. in addition, the investment management and securities brokerage businesses have relatively few barriers to entry and continually attract new entrants. see business competition. finally, numerous aspects of our business are subject to regulation. legislative and other changes affecting the regulatory environment can affect our competitive position within the life insurance industry and within the broader financial services industry. see business u.s. regulation, business international regulation, our insurance, brokerage and banking businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth, governmental and regulatory actions for the purpose of stabilizing and revitalizing the financial markets and protecting investors and consumers may not achieve the intended effect or could adversely affect our competitive position and changes in u.s. federal and state securities laws and regulations, and state insurance regulations regarding suitability of annuity product sales, may affect our operations and our profitability. 58 table of contents industry trends, including the consolidation of distributors of insurance products, could adversely affect the profitability of our businesses our segments continue to be influenced by a variety of trends that affect the insurance industry, including competition with respect to product features, price, distribution capability, customer service and information technology. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends. the insurance industry distributes many of its individual products through other financial institutions such as banks and broker-dealers. an increase in bank and broker-dealer consolidation activity may negatively impact the industry sales, and such consolidation could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market insurance products to our current customer base or to expand our customer base. consolidation of distributors and/or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us. the impact on our business and on the life insurance industry generally of the volatility and instability of the financial markets is difficult to predict, and our business plans, financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted or affected in other unexpected ways. the federal reserve board has taken a number of actions in recent years to spur economic activity by keeping interest rates low and may take further actions to influence interest rates in the future, which may have an impact on the pricing levels of risk-bearing investments, and may adversely impact the level of product sales. see governmental and regulatory actions for the purpose of stabilizing and revitalizing the financial markets and protecting investors and consumers may not achieve the intended effect or could adversely affect our competitive position. in addition, the life insurance industry is subject to state regulation and, as complex products are introduced, regulators may refine capital requirements and introduce new reserving standards. dodd-frank, regulation yy, basel iii, solvency ii and other regulatory initiatives may also lead to changes in regulation that may benefit or disadvantage us relative to some of our competitors. see business competition, our insurance, brokerage and banking businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth and competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability. our valuation of fixed maturity, equity and trading and other securities and short-term investments may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition fixed maturity, equity, and trading and other securities and short-term investments which are reported at estimated fair value on the consolidated balance sheets represent the majority of our total cash and investments. we have categorized these securities into a three-level hierarchy, based on the priority of the inputs to the respective valuation technique. the fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (level 3). an asset or liability classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level significant input to its valuation. see note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding the three input levels. at december 31, 2011, 9.4%, 85.3% and 5.3% of these securities represented level 1, level 2 and level 3, respectively. the level 1 securities primarily consist of certain u.s. treasury and agency securities, foreign government securities, rmbs principally to-be-announced securities, exchange traded common stock, exchange traded registered mutual fund interests and short-term money market securities, including u.s. treasury bills. the level 2 assets include fixed maturity and equity securities priced principally through independent pricing services using observable inputs. these fixed maturity securities include most u.s. treasury and agency securities, as well as the majority of u.s. and foreign corporate securities, rmbs, foreign government securities, cmbs, state and political subdivision securities, foreign government securities, and abs. equity securities classified as level 2 primarily consist of non-redeemable preferred securities and certain equity securities where market quotes are available but are not considered actively traded and are priced by independent pricing services. we review the valuation methodologies used by the independent pricing services on an ongoing basis and ensure 59 table of contents that any changes to valuation methodologies are justified. level 3 assets include fixed maturity securities priced principally through independent non-binding broker quotations or market standard valuation methodologies using inputs that are not market observable or cannot be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. level 3 consists of less liquid fixed maturity securities with very limited trading activity or where less price transparency exists around the inputs to the valuation methodologies including: u.s. and foreign corporate securities including below investment grade private placements; rmbs; cmbs; abs and foreign government securities. equity securities classified as level 3 securities consist principally of nonredeemable preferred stock and common stock of companies that are privately held or companies for which there has been very limited trading activity or where less price transparency exists around the inputs to the valuation. prices provided by independent pricing services and independent non-binding broker quotations can vary widely even for the same security. the determination of estimated fair values by management in the absence of quoted market prices is based on: (i) valuation methodologies; (ii) securities we deem to be comparable; and (iii) assumptions deemed appropriate given the circumstances. the fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based on available market information and judgments about financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amounts of expected future cash flows and the credit standing of the issuer or counterparty. factors considered in estimating fair value include: coupon rate, maturity, estimated duration, call provisions, sinking fund requirements, credit rating, industry sector of the issuer, and quoted market prices of comparable securities. the use of different methodologies and assumptions may have a material effect on the estimated fair value amounts. during periods of market disruption including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities, for example sub-prime mortgage-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities where the underlying loans are alt-a and cmbs, if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. in times of financial market disruption, certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data may become illiquid. in such cases, more securities may fall to level 3 and thus require more subjectivity and management judgment. as such, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation, as well as valuation methods which are more sophisticated or require greater estimation thereby resulting in estimated fair values which may be greater or less than the amount at which the investments may be ultimately sold. further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in estimated fair value could vary significantly. decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if our business does not perform well, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our goodwill or other long-lived assets or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition goodwill is the excess of cost over the estimated fair value of net assets acquired which represents the future economic benefits arising from such net assets acquired that could not be individually identified. as of december 31, 2011, our goodwill was $11.9 billion. goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate, indicate that the implied fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of that reporting unit. we perform our annual goodwill impairment testing during the third quarter of each year based upon data as of the close of the second quarter. goodwill associated with a business acquisition is not tested for impairment during the year the business is acquired unless there is a significant identified impairment event. impairment testing is performed using the fair value approach, which requires the use of estimates and judgment, at the reporting unit level. a reporting unit is the operating segment or a business one level below the operating segment, if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at that level. the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the business. the performance of our businesses may be adversely impacted by prolonged market declines. if it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, we must write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. such writedowns could have an adverse effect on our results of operation or financial 60 table of contents position. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates goodwill and note 7 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate, also require impairment testing to determine whether changes in circumstances indicate that we will be unable to recover the carrying amount of the asset group through future operations of that asset group or market conditions that will impact the estimated fair value of those assets. such writedowns could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. factors in management determination include the performance of the business including the ability to generate future taxable income. if based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. if our business does not perform well or if actual experience versus estimates used in valuing and amortizing dac, deferred sales inducements ( dsi ) and voba vary significantly, we may be required to accelerate the amortization and/or impair the dac, dsi and voba which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition we incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal insurance business. costs that vary with and relate to the production of new and renewal insurance business are deferred as dac. bonus amounts credited to certain policyholders, either immediately upon receiving a deposit or as excess interest credits for a period of time, are referred to as dsi. the recovery of dac and dsi is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. the amount of future profit or margin is dependent principally on investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest crediting rates, dividends paid to policyholders, expenses to administer the business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties and certain economic variables, such as inflation. of these factors, we anticipate that investment returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of such costs. the aforementioned factors enter into management estimates of gross profits or margins, which generally are used to amortize such costs. if the estimates of gross profits or margins were overstated, then the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to income. significant or sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of dac and dsi related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. voba represents the excess of book value over the estimated fair value of acquired insurance, annuity, and investment-type contracts in-force at the acquisition date. the estimated fair value of the acquired liabilities is based on actuarially determined projections, by each block of business, of future policy and contract charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account performance, surrenders, operating expenses, investment returns, nonperformance risk adjustment and other factors. actual experience on the purchased business may vary from these projections. revisions to estimates result in changes to the amounts expensed in the reporting period in which the revisions are made and could result in a charge to income. also, as voba is amortized similarly to dac and dsi, an acceleration of the amortization of voba would occur if the estimates of gross profits or margins were overstated. accordingly, the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period in which the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to net income. significant or sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of the voba related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see changes in accounting standards issued by the financial accounting standards board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results 61 table of contents of operations summary of critical accounting estimates deferred policy acquisition costs and value of business acquired and note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further consideration of dac and voba. changes in accounting standards issued by the financial accounting standards board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements our financial statements are subject to the application of gaap, which is periodically revised and/or expanded. accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the financial accounting standards board. market conditions have prompted accounting standard setters to expose new guidance which further interprets or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements related to financial instruments, structures or transactions, as well as to issue new standards expanding disclosures. the impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in our reports filed with the sec. we will adopt new guidance regarding accounting for dac in the first quarter of 2012. under the new guidance, only incremental direct costs associated with the successful acquisition of new or renewal contracts may be capitalized, and direct-response advertising costs may be capitalized under certain conditions. we plan to apply this guidance retrospectively to all prior periods presented in our consolidated financial statements for all insurance contracts; this will result in a reduction of dac and total equity. see note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. an assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and, therefore, the effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. it is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that we apply to our consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. changes in our discount rate, expected rate of return and expected compensation increase assumptions for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability we determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on our best estimates of future plan experience. these assumptions are reviewed regularly and include discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets and expected increases in compensation levels and expected medical inflation. changes in these assumptions may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. see note 17 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for details on how changes in these assumptions would affect plan costs. guarantees within certain of our products that protect policyholders against significant downturns in equity markets may decrease our earnings, increase the volatility of our results if hedging or risk management strategies prove ineffective, result in higher risk management costs and expose us to increased counterparty risk certain of our variable annuity products include guaranteed minimum benefits. these include guaranteed minimum death benefits, guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits, guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits, and guaranteed minimum income benefits. periods of significant and sustained downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, or reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of the future policy benefit or policyholder account balance liabilities associated with such products, resulting in a reduction to net income. we use reinsurance in combination with derivative instruments to mitigate the liability exposure and the volatility of net income associated with these liabilities, and while we believe that these and other actions have mitigated the risks related to these benefits, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefits in the event that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay. in addition, we are subject to the risk that hedging and other management procedures prove ineffective or that unanticipated policyholder behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events, produces economic losses beyond the scope of the risk management techniques employed. these, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on net income, financial condition or liquidity. we are also subject to the risk that the cost of hedging these guaranteed minimum benefits increases as implied volatilities increase and/or interest rates decrease, resulting in a reduction to net income. 62 table of contents the valuation of certain of the foregoing liabilities (carried at fair value) includes an adjustment for nonperformance risk that reflects the credit standing of the issuing entity. this adjustment, which is not hedged, is based in part on publicly available information regarding credit spreads related to metlife, inc. debt, including credit default swaps. in periods of extreme market volatility, movements in these credit spreads can have a significant impact on net income. contractual features within certain of our life and annuity products may increase our exposure to foreign exchange risk, and decrease our earnings certain of our life and annuity products are exposed to foreign exchange risk. payments under these contracts, depending on the circumstances, may be required to be made in different currencies and may not be the legal tender in the country whose law governs the particular product. changes in exchange rate movements and the imposition of capital controls may also directly impact the liability valuation that may not be entirely hedged. if the currency upon which expected future payments are made strengthens, the liability valuation may increase, which may result in a reduction of net income. we may need to fund deficiencies in our closed block; assets allocated to the closed block benefit only the holders of closed block policies mlic plan of reorganization, as amended (the plan ), required that we establish and operate an accounting mechanism, known as a closed block, to ensure that the reasonable dividend expectations of policyholders who own certain individual insurance policies of mlic are met. see note 10 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. we allocated assets to the closed block in an amount that will produce cash flows which, together with anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block, are reasonably expected to be sufficient to support obligations and liabilities relating to these policies, including, but not limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain expenses and tax, and to provide for the continuation of the policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999, if the experience underlying such scales continues, and for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience changes. we cannot provide assurance that the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block will be sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies. if they are not sufficient, we must fund the shortfall. even if they are sufficient, we may choose, for competitive reasons, to support policyholder dividend payments with our general account funds. the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenues from the policies in the closed block will benefit only the holders of the policies in the closed block. in addition, to the extent that these amounts are greater than the amounts estimated at the time the closed block was funded, dividends payable in respect of the policies included in the closed block may be greater than they would be in the absence of a closed block. any excess earnings will be available for distribution over time only to closed block policyholders. litigation and regulatory investigations are increasingly common in our businesses and may result in significant financial losses and/or harm to our reputation we face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. our pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings specific to us and others generally applicable to business practices in the industries in which we operate. in connection with our insurance operations, plaintiffs lawyers may bring or are bringing class actions and individual suits alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product design, disclosure, administration, denial or delay of benefits and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers. plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages. modern pleading practice in the u.s. permits considerable variation in the assertion of money damages or other relief. this variability in pleadings, together 63 table of contents with our actual experience in litigating or resolving through settlement numerous claims over an extended period of time, demonstrates to management that the monetary relief which may be specified in a lawsuit or claim bears little relevance to its merits or disposition value. see note 16 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular points in time may normally be difficult to ascertain. uncertainties can include how fact finders will evaluate documentary evidence and the credibility and effectiveness of witness testimony, and how trial and appellate courts will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal. disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the relevant evidence and applicable law. the company establishes liabilities for litigation and regulatory loss contingencies when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. liabilities have been established for a number of matters noted in note 16 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. it is possible that some of the matters could require us to pay damages or make other expenditures or establish accruals in amounts that could not be estimated at december 31, 2011. over the past several years, we have faced numerous claims, including class action lawsuits, alleging improper marketing or sales of individual life insurance policies, annuities, mutual funds or other products. in addition, mlic is and has been a defendant in a large number of lawsuits seeking compensatory and punitive damages for personal injuries allegedly caused by exposure to asbestos. these lawsuits principally have focused on allegations with respect to certain research, publication and other activities of one or more of mlic employees during the period from the 1920 through approximately the 1950 and have alleged that mlic learned or should have learned of certain health risks posed by asbestos and, among other things, improperly publicized or failed to disclose those health risks. additional litigation relating to these matters may be commenced in the future. the ability of mlic to estimate its ultimate asbestos exposure is subject to considerable uncertainty, and the conditions impacting its liability can be dynamic and subject to change. the availability of reliable data is limited and it is difficult to predict the numerous variables that can affect liability estimates, including the number of future claims, the cost to resolve claims, the disease mix and severity of disease in pending and future claims, the impact of the number of new claims filed in a particular jurisdiction and variations in the law in the jurisdictions in which claims are filed, the possible impact of tort reform efforts, the willingness of courts to allow plaintiffs to pursue claims against mlic when exposure to asbestos took place after the dangers of asbestos exposure were well known, and the impact of any possible future adverse verdicts and their amounts. the number of asbestos cases that may be brought, the aggregate amount of any liability that mlic may incur, and the total amount paid in settlements in any given year are uncertain and may vary significantly from year to year. the ability to make estimates regarding ultimate asbestos exposure declines significantly as the estimates relate to years further in the future. in our judgment, there is a future point after which losses cease to be probable and reasonably estimable. it is reasonably possible that our total exposure to asbestos claims may be materially greater than the asbestos liability currently accrued and that future charges to income may be necessary. the potential future charges could be material in the particular quarterly or annual periods in which they are recorded. we are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as information requests, subpoenas and books and record examinations, from state and federal regulators and other authorities. a substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. moreover, even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation, regulatory action or investigation, we could suffer significant reputational harm, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including our ability to attract new customers, retain our current customers and recruit and retain employees. regulatory inquiries and litigation may cause volatility in the price of stocks of companies in our industry. 64 table of contents more than 30 u.s. jurisdictions are auditing metlife, inc. and certain of its affiliates for compliance with unclaimed property laws. additionally, mlic and certain of its affiliates have received subpoenas and other regulatory inquiries from certain regulators and other officials relating to claims-payment practices and compliance with unclaimed property laws. an examination of these practices by the illinois department of insurance has been converted into a multistate targeted market conduct exam. on july 5, 2011, the new york insurance department issued a letter requiring life insurers doing business in new york to use data available on the u.s. social security administration death master file or a similar database to identify instances where death benefits under life insurance policies, annuities, and retained asset accounts are payable, to locate and pay beneficiaries under such contracts, and to report the results of the use of the data. it is possible that other jurisdictions may pursue similar investigations or inquiries, may join the multistate market conduct exam, or issue directives similar to the new york insurance department letter. in the third quarter of 2011, we incurred a $117 million after tax charge to increase reserves in connection with our use of the u.s. social security administration death master file and similar databases to identify potential life insurance claims that have not yet been presented to us. it is possible that the audits, market conduct exam, and related activity may result in additional payments to beneficiaries, additional escheatment of funds deemed abandoned under state laws, administrative penalties, interest, and changes to our procedures for the identification and escheatment of abandoned property. we believe that payments for life insurance claims not yet presented and interest thereon will not be materially different from the reserve charge noted above. to the extent we can estimate the reasonably possible amount of potential additional payments, it has been included in the aggregate estimate of reasonably possible loss provided in note 16 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. it is possible that there will be additional payments or other expenses incurred with respect to changes in procedures and we are not currently able to estimate these additional possible amounts, but such costs may be substantial. we cannot give assurance that current claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and other proceedings against us will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. it is also possible that related or unrelated claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and proceedings may be commenced in the future, and we could become subject to further investigations and have lawsuits filed or enforcement actions initiated against us. the number of countries in which we currently operate has greatly expanded as a result of the acquisition and, consequently, we may be subject to additional investigations and lawsuits in such jurisdictions. increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings in any of the countries where we operate could result in new legal actions and precedents and industry-wide regulations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims we rely on a combination of contractual rights with third parties and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. although we endeavor to protect our rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. we may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. this would represent a diversion of resources that may be significant and our efforts may not prove successful. the inability to secure or protect our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete. we may be subject to claims by third parties for (i) patent, trademark or copyright infringement, (ii) breach of copyright, trademark or license usage rights, or (iii) misappropriation of trade secrets. any such claims and any resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability for damages. if we were found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party patent or other intellectual property right, we could in some circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or from utilizing and benefiting from certain methods, processes, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties or implement a costly work around. any of these scenarios could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 65 table of contents legislative and regulatory activity in health care and other employee benefits could increase the costs or administrative burdens of providing benefits to our employees or hinder or prevent us from attracting and retaining employees, or affect our profitability as a provider of life insurance, annuities, and non-medical health insurance benefit products the patient protection and affordable care act, signed into law on march 23, 2010, and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010, signed into law on march 30, 2010 (together, the health care act ), may lead to fundamental changes in the way that employers, including us, provide health care benefits, other benefits, and other forms of compensation to their employees and former employees. among other changes, and subject to various effective dates, the health care act generally restricts certain limits on benefits, mandates coverage for certain kinds of care, extends the required coverage of dependent children through age 26, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions or limitations, requires cost reporting and, in some cases, requires premium rebates to participants under certain circumstances, limits coverage waiting periods, establishes several penalties on employers who fail to offer sufficient coverage to their full-time employees, and requires employers under certain circumstances to provide employees with vouchers to purchase their own health care coverage. the health care act also provides for increased taxation of high cost coverage, restricts the tax deductibility of certain compensation paid by health insurers, reduces the tax deductibility of retiree health care costs to the extent of any retiree prescription drug benefit subsidy provided to the employer by the federal government, increases medicare taxes on certain high earners, and establishes health insurance exchanges for individual purchases of health insurance. the impact of the health care act on us as an employer and on the benefit plans we sponsor for employees or retirees and their dependents, whether those benefits remain competitive or effective in meeting their business objectives, and our costs to provide such benefits and our tax liabilities in connection with benefits or compensation, cannot be predicted. furthermore, we cannot predict the impact of choices that will be made by various regulators, including the u.s. treasury, the irs, the u.s. department of health and human services, and state regulators, to promulgate regulations or guidance, or to make determinations under or related to the health care act. either the health care act or any of these regulatory actions could adversely affect our ability to attract, retain, and motivate talented associates. they could also result in increased or unpredictable costs to provide employee benefits, and could harm our competitive position if we are subject to fees, penalties, tax provisions or other limitations in the health care act and our competitors are not. the health care act also imposes requirements on us as a provider of non-medical health insurance benefit products, subject to various effective dates. it also imposes requirements on the purchasers of certain of these products and has implications for certain other mlic products, such as annuities. we cannot predict the impact of the act or of regulations, guidance or determinations made by various regulators, on the various products that we offer. either the health care act or any of these regulatory actions could adversely affect our ability to offer certain of these products in the same manner as we do today. they could also result in increased or unpredictable costs to provide certain products, and could harm our competitive position if the health care act has a disparate impact on our products compared to products offered by our competitors. litigation in u.s. federal courts has challenged whether the health care act, or parts of it, are valid and consistent with the u.s. constitution. some of the recent court decisions on these issues have held that the health care act is unconstitutional, in whole or in part, and it is expected that the u.s. supreme court will decide these issues in 2012. if the health care act is ruled unconstitutional, the resulting disruption to the system of regulation of health care benefits, other benefits, and other forms of compensation in the u.s., and uncertainty regarding the future course of that system of regulation, may have impacts, some of them potentially negative, on the way that we provide health care benefits, other benefits and other forms of compensation to employees, and on our ability to do so in an efficient manner, which could adversely affect our ability to attract, retain, and motivate talented associates and could also result in increased or unpredictable costs. such a ruling, and the uncertainty it creates, could also result in negative effects on us as a provider of non-medical health insurance benefit products, affecting our ability to offer certain products in the same manner as we do today or resulting in increased or unpredictable costs to provide certain products. 66 table of contents the preservation of access to care for medicare beneficiaries and pension relief act of 2010 also includes certain provisions for defined benefit pension plan funding relief. these provisions may impact the likelihood and/or timing of corporate plan sponsors terminating their plans and/or engaging in transactions to partially or fully transfer pension obligations to an insurance company. as part of our corporate benefit funding segment, we offer general account and separate account group annuity products that enable a plan sponsor to transfer these risks, often in connection with the termination of defined benefit pension plans. consequently, this legislation could indirectly affect the mix of our business, with fewer closeouts and more non-guaranteed funding products, and adversely impact our results of operations. changes in u.s. federal and state securities laws and regulations, and state insurance regulations regarding suitability of annuity product sales, may affect our operations and our profitability federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to insurance products that are also securities, including variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies. as a result, some of metlife, inc. subsidiaries and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance contracts and policies are subject to extensive regulation under these securities laws. these subsidiaries issue variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies through separate accounts that are registered with the sec as investment companies under the investment company act. each registered separate account is generally divided into sub-accounts, each of which invests in an underlying mutual fund which is itself a registered investment company under the investment company act. in addition, the variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies issued by the separate accounts are registered with the sec under the securities act. other subsidiaries are registered with the sec as broker-dealers under the exchange act, and are members of and subject to regulation by finra. further, some of our subsidiaries are registered as investment advisers with the sec under the investment advisers act of 1940, and are also registered as investment advisers in various states, as applicable. federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily intended to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect investors in the securities markets, as well as protect investment advisory or brokerage clients. these laws and regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with the securities laws and regulations. a number of changes have recently been suggested to the laws and regulations that govern the conduct of our variable insurance products business and our distributors that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. for example, dodd-frank authorizes the sec to establish a standard of conduct applicable to brokers and dealers when providing personalized investment advice to retail and other customers. this standard of conduct would be to act in the best interest of the customer without regard to the financial or other interest of the broker or dealer providing the advice. further, proposals have been made that the sec establish a self-regulatory organization with respect to registered investment advisers, which could increase the level of regulatory oversight over such investment advisers. in addition, state insurance regulators are becoming more active in adopting and enforcing suitability standards with respect to sales of annuities, both fixed and variable. in particular, the naic has adopted a revised suitability in annuity transactions model regulation ( sat ) that will, if enacted by the states, place new responsibilities upon issuing insurance companies with respect to the suitability of annuity sales, including responsibilities for training agents. several states have already enacted laws based on the sat. we also may be subject to similar laws and regulations in the foreign countries in which we offer products or conduct other activities similar to those described above. see business international regulation. changes in tax laws, tax regulations, or interpretations of such laws or regulations could increase our corporate taxes; changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to consumers changes in tax laws, treasury and other regulations promulgated thereunder, or interpretations of such laws or regulations could increase our corporate taxes. the obama administration has proposed corporate tax changes. changes in corporate tax rates could affect the value of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. furthermore, the value of deferred tax assets could be impacted by future earnings levels. 67 table of contents changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to consumers. a shift away from life insurance and annuity contracts and other tax-deferred products would reduce our income from sales of these products, as well as the assets upon which we earn investment income. the obama administration has proposed certain changes to individual income tax rates and rules applicable to certain policies. we cannot predict whether any tax legislation impacting corporate taxes or insurance products will be enacted, what the specific terms of any such legislation will be or whether, if at all, any legislation would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. changes to regulations under the employee retirement income security act of 1974 could adversely affect our distribution model by restricting our ability to provide customers with advice the prohibited transaction rules of erisa and the internal revenue code generally restrict the provision of investment advice to erisa plans and participants and individual retirement accounts ( iras ) if the investment recommendation results in fees paid to the individual advisor, his or her firm or their affiliates that vary according to the investment recommendation chosen. in october 2011, the dol issued final regulations which provide limited relief from these investment advice restrictions. if no additional relief is provided regarding these investment advice restrictions, the ability of our affiliated broker-dealers and their registered representatives to provide investment advice to erisa plans and participants, and with respect to iras, would likely be significantly restricted. also, the fee and revenue arrangements of certain advisory programs may be required to be revenue neutral, resulting in potential lost revenues for these broker-dealers and their affiliates. other proposed investment advice regulatory initiatives under erisa also may negatively impact the current business model of our broker-dealers. in particular, the dol issued a proposed regulation in october 2010 that would, if adopted as proposed, significantly broaden the circumstances under which a person or entity providing investment advice with respect to erisa plans or iras would be deemed a fiduciary under erisa or the internal revenue code. if adopted, the proposed regulations may make it easier for the dol in enforcement actions, and for plaintiffs attorneys in erisa litigation, to attempt to extend fiduciary status to advisors who would not be deemed fiduciaries under current regulations. in september 2011, the dol announced it will re-propose these fiduciary definition regulations, and a new proposal is expected in 2012. in addition, the dol has issued a number of regulations recently that increase the level of disclosure that must be provided to plan sponsors and participants. the participant disclosure regulations were issued in final form in october 2010 and become effective in 2012, and the regulations which require service providers to disclose fee and other information to plan sponsors take effect in 2012. these erisa disclosure requirements will likely increase the regulatory and compliance burden upon us, resulting in increased costs. we may be unable to attract and retain sales representatives for our products we must attract and retain productive sales representatives to sell our insurance, annuities and investment products. strong competition exists among insurers for sales representatives with demonstrated ability. in addition, there is competition for representatives with other types of financial services firms, such as independent broker-dealers. we compete with other insurers for sales representatives primarily on the basis of our financial position, support services and compensation and product features. we continue to undertake several initiatives to grow our career agency force while continuing to enhance the efficiency and production of our existing sales force. we cannot provide assurance that these initiatives will succeed in attracting and retaining new agents. sales of individual insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining agents. see business competition. 68 table of contents metlife, inc. board of directors may control the outcome of stockholder votes on many matters due to the voting provisions of the metlife policyholder trust under the plan, we established the metlife policyholder trust (the trust ) to hold the shares of metlife, inc. common stock allocated to eligible policyholders not receiving cash or policy credits under the plan. as of february 21, 2012, the trust held 211,500,239 shares, or 19.9%, of the outstanding shares of metlife, inc. common stock. because of the number of shares held in the trust and the voting provisions of the trust, the trust may affect the outcome of matters brought to a stockholder vote. except on votes regarding certain fundamental corporate actions described below, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held in the trust in accordance with the recommendations given by metlife, inc. board of directors to its stockholders or, if the board gives no such recommendations, as directed by the board. as a result of the voting provisions of the trust, the board of directors may be able to control votes on matters submitted to a vote of stockholders, excluding those fundamental corporate actions, so long as the trust holds a substantial number of shares of common stock. if the vote relates to fundamental corporate actions specified in the trust, the trustee will solicit instructions from the trust beneficiaries and vote all shares held in the trust in proportion to the instructions it receives. these actions include: an election or removal of directors in which a stockholder has properly nominated one or more candidates in opposition to a nominee or nominees of metlife, inc. board of directors or a vote on a stockholder proposal to oppose a board nominee for director, remove a director for cause or fill a vacancy caused by the removal of a director by stockholders, subject to certain conditions; a merger or consolidation, a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the assets, or a recapitalization or dissolution, of metlife, inc., in each case requiring a vote of stockholders under applicable delaware law; any transaction that would result in an exchange or conversion of shares of common stock held by the trust for cash, securities or other property; and any proposal requiring metlife, inc. board of directors to amend or redeem the rights under metlife, inc. stockholder rights plan, other than a proposal with respect to which we have received advice of nationally-recognized legal counsel to the effect that the proposal is not a proper subject for stockholder action under delaware law. metlife, inc. does not currently have a stockholder rights plan. if a vote concerns any of these fundamental corporate actions, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held by the trust in proportion to the instructions it received, which will give disproportionate weight to the instructions actually given by trust beneficiaries. the metlife policyholder trust agreement provides that we may terminate the trust once the percentage of outstanding shares held in the trust falls to 25%. we must terminate the trust 90 days after we provide the trustee with notice that the percentage of outstanding shares held in the trust is 10% or less. in connection with any termination of the trust, all of the shares of common stock then held in the trust will need to be distributed to the respective trust beneficiaries, unless we offer to purchase all or a portion of such trust shares. in connection with such a distribution, we may incur costs related to an increase in the number of shareholders, which may include increased mailing and proxy solicitation expenses. state laws, federal laws, our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws may delay, deter or prevent takeovers and business combinations that stockholders might consider in their best interests state laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. for instance, they may prevent stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of metlife, inc. common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of metlife, inc. common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. 69 table of contents any person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would face various regulatory obstacles which may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders of metlife, inc. might consider in their best interests. first, the insurance laws and regulations of the various states in which metlife, inc. u.s. insurance subsidiaries are organized may delay or impede a business combination involving us. state insurance laws prohibit an entity from acquiring control of an insurance company without the prior approval of the domestic insurance regulator. under most states statutes, an entity is presumed to have control of an insurance company if it owns, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting stock of that insurance company or its parent company. we are also subject to banking regulations, and may in the future become subject to additional regulations. dodd-frank contains provisions that could restrict or impede consolidation, mergers and acquisitions by systemically significant firms and/or large bank holding companies. see business u.s. regulation financial holding company regulation change of control and restrictions on mergers and acquisitions. in addition, the investment company act of 1940, as amended, would require approval by the contract owners of our variable contracts in order to effectuate a change of control of any affiliated investment adviser to a mutual fund underlying our variable contracts. finally, finra approval would be necessary for a change of control of any finra registered broker-dealer that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of metlife, inc. in addition, section 203 of the delaware general corporation law may affect the ability of an interested stockholder to engage in certain business combinations, including mergers, consolidations or acquisitions of additional shares, for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. an interested stockholder is defined to include persons owning, directly or indirectly, 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation. metlife, inc. certificate of incorporation and by-laws also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. these provisions may adversely affect prevailing market prices for metlife, inc. common stock and include: a prohibition on the calling of special meetings by stockholders; advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates to the board of directors and stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; and supermajority voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation and by-laws. the continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may adversely affect the level of claim losses we incur and the value of our investment portfolio the continued threat of terrorism, both within the u.s. and abroad, ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility in global financial markets and result in loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the credit and equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. we cannot predict whether, and the extent to which, companies in which we maintain investments may suffer losses as a result of financial, commercial or economic disruptions, or how any such disruptions might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or principal on their securities or, to the extent not covered by the terrorism insurance maintained by our commercial and agricultural mortgagees, mortgage loans. the continued threat of terrorism also could result in increased reinsurance prices and reduced insurance coverage and potentially cause us to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. terrorist actions also could disrupt our operations centers in the u.s. or abroad. in addition, the occurrence of terrorist actions could result in higher claims under our insurance policies than anticipated. see difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations and these conditions may not improve in the near future. the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning, as well as a failure in cyber- or other information security systems, could result in a loss or disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and could impair our ability to conduct business effectively in the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, an epidemic, an industrial accident, a blackout, a computer virus, a terrorist attack, a cyberattack or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery 70 table of contents systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial position, particularly if those problems affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data. in addition, in the event that a significant number of our managers were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. these interruptions also may interfere with our suppliers ability to provide goods and services and our employees ability to perform their job responsibilities. we depend heavily upon computer systems to provide reliable service. despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our computer systems could be subject to physical and electronic break-ins, cyberattacks and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering, including threats that may come from external factors, such as governments, organized crime, hackers and third parties to whom we outsource certain functions, or may originate internally from within the company. if one or more of these events occurs, it could potentially jeopardize the confidential, proprietary and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, as well as our customers or other third parties , operations, which could result in damage to our reputation, financial losses, litigation, increased costs, regulatory penalties and/or customer dissatisfaction or loss. although we take steps to prevent and detect such attacks, it is possible that we may not become aware of a cyber incident for some time after it occurs, which could increase our exposure to these consequences. our associates may take excessive risks which could negatively affect our financial condition and business as an insurance enterprise, we are in the business of being paid to accept certain risks. the associates who conduct our business, including executive officers and other members of management, sales managers, investment professionals, product managers, sales agents, and other associates, do so in part by making decisions and choices that involve exposing us to risk. these include decisions such as setting underwriting guidelines and standards, product design and pricing, determining what assets to purchase for investment and when to sell them, which business opportunities to pursue, and other decisions. although we endeavor, in the design and implementation of our compensation programs and practices, to avoid giving our associates incentives to take excessive risks, associates may take such risks regardless of the structure of our compensation programs and practices. similarly, although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor associates business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks, there can be no assurance that these controls and procedures are or may be effective. if our associates take excessive risks, the impact of those risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or business operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 192 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management the company must effectively manage, measure and monitor the market risk associated with its assets and liabilities. it has developed an integrated process for managing risk, which it conducts through its enterprise risk management department, asset/liability management unit, treasury department and investment department along with the management of the business segments. the company has established and implemented comprehensive policies and procedures at both the corporate and business segment level to minimize the effects of potential market volatility. the company regularly analyzes its exposure to interest rate, equity market price and foreign currency exchange rate risks. as a result of that analysis, the company has determined that the estimated fair values of certain assets and liabilities are materially exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and changes in the equity markets. enterprise risk management. metlife has established several financial and non-financial senior management committees as part of its risk management process. these committees manage capital and risk positions, approve alm strategies and establish appropriate corporate business standards. further enhancing its committee structure, during the second quarter of 2010, metlife created an enterprise risk committee including the following voting members: the chief financial officer, the chief investment officer and the chief risk officer. this committee is responsible for reviewing all material risks to the enterprise and deciding on actions if necessary, in the event risks exceed desirable targets, taking into consideration best practices to resolve or mitigate those risks. metlife also has a separate enterprise risk management department, which is responsible for risk management throughout metlife and reports to metlife chief risk officer. the enterprise risk management department primary responsibilities consist of: implementing a corporate risk framework, which outlines the company approach for managing risk on an enterprise-wide basis; 192 table of contents developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring, monitoring and controlling those risks identified in the corporate risk framework; establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels; deploying capital on an economic capital basis; and reporting on a periodic basis to the finance and risk committee of the company board of directors; with respect to credit risk, reporting to the investment committee of the company board of directors; and reporting on various aspects of risk to financial and non-financial senior management committees. asset/liability management. the company actively manages its assets using an approach that balances quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity, concentration and investment return. the goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income tax, risk-adjusted investment income and risk-adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are reasonably managed on a cash flow and duration basis. the alm process is the shared responsibility of the financial risk management and asset/liability management unit, enterprise risk management, the portfolio management unit, and the senior members of the business segments and is governed by the alm committees. the alm committees duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios, establishing investment guidelines and limits and providing oversight of the alm process on a periodic basis. the directives of the alm committees are carried out and monitored through alm working groups which are set up to manage by product type. in addition, an alm steering committee oversees the activities of the underlying alm committees. metlife establishes target asset portfolios for each major insurance product, which represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund its liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. these strategies are monitored through regular review of portfolio metrics, such as effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality by the alm working groups. market risk exposures the company has exposure to market risk through its insurance operations and investment activities. for purposes of this disclosure, market risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity market. interest rates. the company exposure to interest rate changes results most significantly from its holdings of fixed maturity securities, as well as its interest rate sensitive liabilities. the fixed maturity securities include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds and mortgage-backed securities, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium- and long-term interest rates. the interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include debt, pabs related to certain investment type contracts, and net embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits which have the same type of interest rate exposure (medium- and long-term interest rates) as fixed maturity securities. the company employs product design, pricing and alm strategies to reduce the adverse effects of interest rate movements. product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products and the ability to reset credited rates for certain products. alm strategies include the use of derivatives and duration mismatch limits. see risk factors changes in market interest rates may significantly affect our profitability. foreign currency exchange rates. the company exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar results from its holdings in non-u.s. dollar denominated fixed maturity and equity securities, mortgage loans, and certain liabilities, as well as through its investments in foreign subsidiaries. the principal currencies that create foreign currency exchange rate risk in the company investment portfolios and liabilities are the euro, the japanese yen, the british pound, the mexican peso and the canadian dollar. selectively, the company uses u.s. dollar assets to support certain long duration foreign currency liabilities. 193 table of contents through its investments in foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures, the company is primarily exposed to the japanese yen, the polish zloty, the mexican peso, the british pound, the australian dollar, the euro, the korean won and the canadian dollar. in addition to hedging with foreign currency swaps, forwards and options, local surplus in some countries is held entirely or in part in u.s. dollar assets which further minimizes exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. the company has matched much of its foreign currency liabilities in its foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency assets, thereby reducing its risk to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. see risk factors fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our profitability. equity market. the company has exposure to equity market risk through certain liabilities that involve long-term guarantees on equity performance such as net embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits, certain pabs along with investments in equity securities. we manage this risk on an integrated basis with other risks through our alm strategies including the dynamic hedging of certain variable annuity guarantee benefits. the company also manages equity market risk exposure in its investment portfolio through the use of derivatives. equity exposures associated with other limited partnership interests are excluded from this section as they are not considered financial instruments under gaap. management of market risk exposures the company uses a variety of strategies to manage interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market risk, including the use of derivative instruments. interest rate risk management. to manage interest rate risk, the company analyzes interest rate risk using various models, including multi-scenario cash flow projection models that forecast cash flows of the liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivative instruments. these projections involve evaluating the potential gain or loss on most of the company in-force business under various increasing and decreasing interest rate environments. the department of financial services regulations require that metlife perform some of these analyses annually as part of metlife review of the sufficiency of its regulatory reserves. for several of its legal entities, the company maintains segmented operating and surplus asset portfolios for the purpose of alm and the allocation of investment income to product lines. for each segment, invested assets greater than or equal to the gaap liabilities less the dac asset and any non-invested assets allocated to the segment are maintained, with any excess swept to the surplus segment. the business segments may reflect differences in legal entity, statutory line of business and any product market characteristic which may drive a distinct investment strategy with respect to duration, liquidity or credit quality of the invested assets. certain smaller entities make use of unsegmented general accounts for which the investment strategy reflects the aggregate characteristics of liabilities in those entities. the company measures relative sensitivities of the value of its assets and liabilities to changes in key assumptions utilizing company models. these models reflect specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting rates. in addition, these models include asset cash flow projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage prepayments and defaults. common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, are also used to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and liability values to changes in interest rates. in computing the duration of liabilities, consideration is given to all policyholder guarantees and to how the company intends to set indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or dividends. each asset portfolio has a duration target based on the liability duration and the investment objectives of that portfolio. where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity of available assets, as is the case with certain retirement and non-medical health products, the company may support such liabilities with equity investments, derivatives or curve mismatch strategies. 194 table of contents foreign currency exchange rate risk management. foreign currency exchange rate risk is assumed primarily in three ways: investments in foreign subsidiaries, purchases of foreign currency denominated investments in the investment portfolio and the sale of certain insurance products. the company treasury department is responsible for managing the exposure to investments in foreign subsidiaries. limits to exposures are established and monitored by the treasury department and managed by the investment department. the investment department is responsible for managing the exposure to foreign currency investments. exposure limits to unhedged foreign currency investments are incorporated into the standing authorizations granted to management by the board of directors and are reported to the board of directors on a periodic basis. the lines of business are responsible for establishing limits and managing any foreign exchange rate exposure caused by the sale or issuance of insurance products. metlife uses foreign currency swaps and forwards to mitigate the liability exposure, risk of loss and the volatility of net income associated with its investments in foreign subsidiaries, foreign currency denominated fixed income investments and the sale of certain insurance products. equity market risk management. equity market risk exposure through the issuance of variable annuities is managed by the company asset/liability management unit in partnership with the investment department. equity market risk is realized through its investment in equity securities and is managed by its investment department. metlife uses derivatives to mitigate its equity exposure both in certain liability guarantees such as variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefit and equity securities. these derivatives include exchange-traded equity futures, equity index options contracts and equity variance swaps. the company also employs reinsurance to manage these exposures. hedging activities. metlife uses derivative contracts primarily to hedge a wide range of risks including interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, and equity risk. derivative hedges are designed to reduce risk on an economic basis while considering their impact on accounting results and gaap and statutory capital. the construction of the company derivative hedge programs vary depending on the type of risk being hedged. some hedge programs are asset or liability specific while others are portfolio hedges that reduce risk related to a group of liabilities or assets. the company use of derivatives by major hedge programs is as follows: risks related to living guarantee benefits the company uses a wide range of derivative contracts to hedge the risk associated with variable annuity living guarantee benefits. these hedges include equity and interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, currency futures/forwards, equity indexed options and interest rate option contracts and equity variance swaps. minimum interest rate guarantees for certain company liability contracts, the company provides the contractholder a guaranteed minimum interest rate. these contracts include certain fixed annuities and other insurance liabilities. the company purchases interest rate floors to reduce risk associated with these liability guarantees. reinvestment risk in long duration liability contracts derivatives are used to hedge interest rate risk related to certain long duration liability contracts, such as deferred annuities. hedges include zero coupon interest rate swaps and swaptions. foreign currency risk the company uses currency swaps and forwards to hedge foreign currency risk. these hedges primarily swap foreign currency denominated bonds, investments in foreign subsidiaries or equity exposures to u.s. dollars. 195 table of contents general alm hedging strategies in the ordinary course of managing the company asset/liability risks, the company uses interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, interest rate floors and inflation swaps. these hedges are designed to reduce interest rate risk or inflation risk related to the existing assets or liabilities or related to expected future cash flows. risk measurement: sensitivity analysis the company measures market risk related to its market sensitive assets and liabilities based on changes in interest rates, equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates utilizing a sensitivity analysis. this analysis estimates the potential changes in estimated fair value based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, equity market prices and foreign currency exchange rates. the company believes that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the near-term. in performing the analysis summarized below, the company used market rates at december 31, 2011. the sensitivity analysis separately calculates each of the company market risk exposures (interest rate, equity market and foreign currency exchange rate) relating to its trading and non trading assets and liabilities. the company modeled the impact of changes in market rates and prices on the estimated fair values of its market sensitive assets and liabilities as follows: the net present values of its interest rate sensitive exposures resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates; the u.s. dollar equivalent estimated fair values of the company foreign currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in foreign currency exchange rates; and the estimated fair value of its equity positions due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity market prices. the sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as predictive of the company future financial performance. the company cannot ensure that its actual losses in any particular period will not exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. limitations related to this sensitivity analysis include: the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgages; for the derivatives that qualify as hedges, the impact on reported earnings may be materially different from the change in market values; the analysis excludes other significant real estate holdings and liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts; and the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains unchanged throughout the period. accordingly, the company uses such models as tools and not as substitutes for the experience and judgment of its management. based on its analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and prices, metlife has determined that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the estimated fair value of certain assets and liabilities from interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity exposures. 196 table of contents the table below illustrates the potential loss in estimated fair value for each market risk exposure of the company market sensitive assets and liabilities at december 31, 2011: december 31, 2011 (in millions) non-trading: interest rate risk $ 4,319 foreign currency exchange rate risk $ 4,547 equity market risk $ 37 trading: interest rate risk $ 5 foreign currency exchange rate risk $ 486 197 table of contents sensitivity analysis: interest rates. the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in fair value of the company trading and non-trading interest sensitive financial instruments at december 31, 2011 by type of asset or liability: december 31, 2011 notional amount estimated fair value (3) assuming a 10% increase in the yield curve (in millions) assets: fixed maturity securities $ 350,271 $ (4,941 ) equity securities 3,023 trading and other securities 18,268 (5 ) mortgage loans: held-for-investment 59,560 (220 ) held-for-sale 7,526 (35 ) mortgage loans, net 67,086 (255 ) policy loans 14,213 (125 ) real estate joint ventures (1) 183 other limited partnership interests (1) 1,656 short-term investments 17,310 (1 ) other invested assets: mortgage servicing rights 666 54 other 1,434 cash and cash equivalents 10,461 (1 ) accrued investment income 4,344 premiums, reinsurance and other receivables 5,232 (227 ) other assets 308 (10 ) net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) 363 (17 ) mortgage loan commitments $ 4,129 3 (2 ) commitments to fund bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments $ 1,432 51 total assets $ (5,530 ) liabilities: policyholder account balances $ 153,304 $ 740 payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions 33,716 bank deposits 10,507 short-term debt 686 long-term debt 22,514 186 collateral financing arrangements 4,136 junior subordinated debt securities 3,491 105 other liabilities: trading liabilities 127 2 other 4,087 25 net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) 4,584 1,677 total liabilities $ 2,735 derivative instruments: interest rate swaps $ 79,733 $ 6,042 $ (1,049 ) interest rate floors $ 23,866 1,081 (89 ) interest rate caps $ 49,665 102 25 interest rate futures $ 14,965 6 (103 ) interest rate options $ 16,988 890 (200 ) interest rate forwards $ 14,033 195 (31 ) synthetic gics $ 4,454 foreign currency swaps $ 16,461 112 14 foreign currency forwards $ 10,149 140 1 currency futures $ 633 currency options $ 1,321 6 credit default swaps $ 13,136 213 credit forwards $ 20 4 equity futures $ 7,053 16 equity options $ 17,099 3,084 (90 ) variance swaps $ 18,801 322 (7 ) total rate of return swaps $ 1,644 (24 ) total derivative instruments $ (1,529 ) net change $ (4,324 ) 198 table of contents (1) represents only those investments accounted for using the cost method. (2) embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. (3) separate account assets and liabilities which are interest rate sensitive are not included herein as any interest rate risk is borne by the holder of the separate account. interest rate risk has decreased by $1.1 billion, or 20%, to $4.3 billion at december 31, 2011 from $5.4 billion at december 31, 2010. the decrease in risk is primarily due to a large decline in interest rates across the long end of the swaps and u.s. treasury curves which decreased risk by $1.8 billion. this decrease in risk was partially offset by a change in the net asset and liability bases of $590 million and the yield impact to long term debt of $230 million. the remainder of the fluctuation is attributable to numerous immaterial items. 199 table of contents sensitivity analysis: foreign currency exchange rates . the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of the company portfolio due to a 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates at december 31, 2011 by type of asset or liability: december 31, 2011 notional amount estimated fair value (1) assuming a 10% increase in the foreign exchange rate (in millions) assets: fixed maturity securities $ 350,271 $ (7,945 ) equity securities 3,023 (106 ) trading and other securities 18,268 (486 ) mortgage loans: held-for-investment 59,560 (450 ) held-for-sale 7,526 mortgage loans, net 67,086 (450 ) policy loans 14,213 (187 ) other limited partnership interests 1,656 (10 ) short-term investments 17,310 (204 ) other invested assets: mortgage servicing rights 666 other 1,434 (62 ) cash and cash equivalents 10,461 (135 ) accrued investment income 4,344 (7 ) premiums, reinsurance and other receivables 5,232 (162 ) other assets 308 (7 ) total assets $ (9,761 ) liabilities: policyholder account balances $ 153,304 $ 3,375 bank deposits 10,507 long-term debt 22,514 126 payable for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions 33,716 3 other liabilities 4,087 163 net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) 4,584 476 total liabilities $ 4,143 derivative instruments: interest rate swaps $ 79,733 $ 6,042 $ (41 ) interest rate floors $ 23,866 1,081 interest rate caps $ 49,665 102 interest rate futures $ 14,965 6 (3 ) interest rate options $ 16,988 890 (17 ) interest rate forwards $ 14,033 195 synthetic gics $ 4,454 foreign currency swaps $ 16,461 112 736 foreign currency forwards $ 10,149 140 46 currency futures $ 633 (53 ) currency options $ 1,321 6 29 credit default swaps $ 13,136 213 credit forwards $ 20 4 equity futures $ 7,053 16 (3 ) equity options $ 17,099 3,084 (109 ) variance swaps $ 18,801 322 total rate of return swaps $ 1,644 (24 ) total derivative instruments $ 585 net change $ (5,033 ) 200 table of contents (1) estimated fair value presented in the table above represents the estimated fair value of all financial instruments within this financial statement caption not necessarily those solely subject to foreign exchange risk. (2) embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. foreign currency exchange rate risk increased by $1.0 billion, to $5.0 billion at december 31, 2011 from $4.0 billion at december 31, 2010. this change was due to an increase in exchange rate risk relating to fixed maturity securities (including trading and other securities) of $1.6 billion due to higher net exposures primarily to the british pound, the australian dollar and the japanese yen. this was partially offset by an increase in the foreign exposure related to pabs and other liabilities and the use of derivatives employed by the company of $274 million and $280 million, respectively. the remainder of the fluctuation is attributable to numerous immaterial items. 201 table of contents sensitivity analysis: equity market prices. the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of the company portfolio due to a 10% change in equity at december 31, 2011 by type of asset or liability: december 31, 2011 notional amount estimated fair value (1) assuming a 10% increase in equity prices (in millions) assets: equity securities $ 3,023 $ 346 other invested assets: net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) 363 (17 ) total assets $ 329 liabilities: policyholder account balances $ 153,304 $ bank deposits 10,507 other liabilities: net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) 4,584 739 total liabilities $ 739 derivative instruments: interest rate swaps $ 79,733 $ 6,042 $ interest rate floors $ 23,866 1,081 interest rate caps $ 49,665 102 interest rate futures $ 14,965 6 interest rate options $ 16,988 890 interest rate forwards $ 14,033 195 synthetic gics $ 4,454 foreign currency swaps $ 16,461 112 foreign currency forwards $ 10,149 140 currency futures $ 633 currency options $ 1,321 6 credit default swaps $ 13,136 213 credit forwards $ 20 4 equity futures $ 7,053 16 (680 ) equity options $ 17,099 3,084 (286 ) variance swaps $ 18,801 322 13 total rate of return swaps $ 1,644 (24 ) (152 ) total derivative instruments $ (1,105 ) net change $ (37 ) (1) estimated fair value presented in the table above represents the estimated fair value of all financial instruments within this financial statement caption not necessarily those solely subject to equity price risk. (2) embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. (3) during the fourth quarter of 2011, the analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity prices determined that due to a change in the portfolio composition of derivatives employed by the company, an increase of 10% had the most adverse effect on our equity risk while the prior year end analysis of equity prices shows a decrease of 10% had the most adverse effect. equity price risk increased by $23 million to $37 million at december 31, 2011 from $14 million at december 31, 2010. this increase is primarily due to a change in the portfolio composition of derivatives employed by the company. 202 table of contentsrisk factors 33 risk factors economic environment and capital markets-related risks if difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally persist, they may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations our business and results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally. stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in financial asset classes or various markets, including global capital markets, can have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have a large investment portfolio and our insurance liabilities are sensitive to changing market factors. global market factors, including interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, consumer spending, business investment, government spending, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, deflation and inflation can all affect our financial condition, as well as the volume, profitability and results of our business operations, either directly or by virtue of their impact on the business and economic environment generally and on general levels of economic activity, employment and customer behavior specifically. disruptions in one market or asset class can also spread to other markets or asset classes. upheavals in the financial markets can also affect our financial condition (including our liquidity and capital levels) as a result of mismatched impacts on the value of our assets and our liabilities. while our diversified business mix and geographically diverse business operations partially mitigate these risks, correlation across regions, countries and global market factors may reduce the benefits of diversification. at times, throughout the past few years, volatile conditions have characterized financial markets, and not all global financial markets are functioning normally. significant market volatility, and government actions taken in response, may exacerbate some of the risks we face. concerns about economic conditions, capital markets and the solvency of certain european union member states, including portugal, ireland, italy, greece and spain ( europe perimeter region ), as well as cyprus, and of the financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by these countries, have been a cause of elevated levels of market volatility. this market volatility affected the performance of various asset classes during 2012, and it could continue until there is an ultimate resolution of these sovereign debt-related concerns. despite public and private support programs for europe perimeter region, concerns about sovereign debt sustainability subsequently expanded to other european union member states. as a result, in late 2011 and early 2012, several other european union member states experienced credit ratings downgrades or had their credit ratings outlook changed to negative. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment. the financial markets have also been affected by concerns that one or more countries may exit the euro zone. any of these concerns could have significant adverse effects on the european and global economic and financial markets generally. to the extent these uncertain financial market conditions persist, our revenues and net investment income are likely to remain under pressure. similarly, sustained periods of low interest rates could cause our profit margins to erode. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends impact of a sustained low interest rate environment. also, in the event of extreme prolonged market events, such as the recent global credit crisis, we could incur significant capital and/or operating losses. even in the absence of a market downturn, we are exposed to substantial risk of loss due to market volatility. we are a significant writer of variable insurance products and certain other products issued through separate accounts. the account values of these products decrease as a result of declining equity markets. decreases in account values reduce fees generated by these products, cause the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs ( dac ) to accelerate and could increase the level of insurance liabilities we must carry to support such products issued with any associated guarantees. 33 table of contents in an economic downturn characterized by higher unemployment, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment and lower consumer spending, the demand for our financial and insurance products could be adversely affected. group insurance, in particular, is affected by higher unemployment rates. in addition, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies. furthermore, our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. such adverse changes in the economy could negatively affect our earnings and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the recent financial crisis has precipitated, and may continue to raise the possibility of, legislative, judicial, regulatory and other governmental actions. see regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth and risks related to our business competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability. adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, our access to capital and our cost of capital the capital and credit markets may be subject to periods of extreme volatility and disruption, which could cause our liquidity and credit capacity to be limited. we need liquidity to pay our operating expenses and interest on our debt and dividends on our capital stock, provide our subsidiaries with cash or collateral, maintain our securities lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities. without sufficient liquidity, we could be forced to curtail our operations, and our business and financial results may suffer. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources. in the event market or other conditions have an adverse impact on our capital and liquidity, or any required regulatory stress-testing indicates that such conditions could have such an impact beyond expectations and our current resources do not satisfy our needs or regulatory requirements, we may have to seek additional financing. the availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as the then current market conditions, regulatory considerations, availability of credit to us and the financial services industry generally, our credit ratings and credit capacity, and the perception of our customers and lenders regarding our long- or short-term financial prospects if we incur large operating or investment losses or if the level of our business activity decreases due to a market downturn. similarly, our access to funds may be impaired if regulatory authorities or rating agencies take negative actions against us. our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient and, in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. our liquidity requirements may change if, among other things, we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral on short notice under securities lending agreements. see investments-related risks should the need arise, we may have difficulty selling certain holdings in our investment portfolio or in our securities lending program in a timely manner and realizing full value given their illiquid nature and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments securities lending. disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may also limit our access to capital needed to operate our business, most significantly in our insurance operations. such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy regulatory capital requirements; and access the capital necessary to grow our business. as a result, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue different types of securities than we would have otherwise, less effectively deploy such capital, issue shorter tenor securities than we prefer, or bear an unattractive cost of capital, which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and statutory capital position could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the financial markets. 34 table of contents we are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and may cause our net investment income to vary from period to period we are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk, including changes in interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, real estate markets, foreign currency exchange rates, market volatility, global economic performance in general, the performance of specific obligors, including governments, included in our investment portfolio and other factors outside our control. interest rate risk. some of our products, principally traditional whole life insurance, fixed annuities and guaranteed interest contracts, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will reduce our investment margin or spread, or the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay under the contracts in our general account and the rate of return we earn on general account investments intended to support obligations under such contracts. our spread is a key component of our net income. as interest rates decrease or remain at low levels, we may be forced to reinvest proceeds from investments that have matured or have been prepaid or sold at lower yields, which will reduce our investment margin. moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the fixed income securities and commercial or agricultural mortgage loans in our investment portfolio with greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates, thereby exacerbating this risk. although lowering interest crediting rates can help offset decreases in spreads on some products, our ability to lower these rates could be limited by competition or contractually guaranteed minimum rates and may not match the timing or magnitude of changes in asset yields. as a result, our spread could decrease or potentially become negative. our expectation for future spreads is an important component in the amortization of dac and value of business acquired ( voba ). significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period. in addition, during periods of declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products may be relatively more attractive investments to consumers. this could result in increased premium payments on products with flexible premium features, repayment of policy loans and increased persistency, or a higher percentage of insurance policies remaining in-force from year to year, during a period when our new investments carry lower returns. a decline in market interest rates could also reduce our return on investments that do not support particular policy obligations. during periods of sustained lower interest rates, policy liabilities may not be sufficient to meet future policy obligations and may need to be strengthened. accordingly, declining and sustained lower interest rates may materially affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows and significantly reduce our profitability. as a global insurance company, we are also affected by the monetary policies of the federal reserve board and of central banks around the world. the federal reserve board has taken a number of actions in recent years to spur economic activity by keeping interest rates low and may take further action to influence rates in the future. such actions may have an impact on the pricing levels of risk-bearing investments, and may adversely impact the level of product sales. central banks in other parts of the world have also taken action to lower interest rates. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment. for a discussion of the impact of the low interest environment on us, see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends impact of a sustained low interest rate environment. increases in market interest rates could also negatively affect our profitability. in periods of rapidly increasing interest rates, we may not be able to replace, in a timely manner, the investments in our general account with higher yielding investments needed to fund the higher crediting rates necessary to keep interest sensitive products competitive. we, therefore, may have to accept a lower spread and, thus, lower profitability or face a decline in sales and greater loss of existing contracts and related assets. in addition, policy loans, surrenders and withdrawals may tend to increase as policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns as interest 35 table of contents rates rise. this process may result in cash outflows requiring that we sell investments at a time when the prices of those investments are adversely affected by the increase in market interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses. unanticipated withdrawals and terminations may cause us to accelerate the amortization of dac and voba, which reduces net income and may also cause us to accelerate negative voba, which increases net income. an increase in market interest rates could also have a material adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio, for example, by decreasing the estimated fair values of the fixed income securities that comprise a substantial portion of our investment portfolio. finally, an increase in interest rates could result in decreased fee income associated with a decline in the value of variable annuity account balances invested in fixed income funds. we manage interest rate risk as part of our asset and liability management strategies, which include maintaining an investment portfolio with diversified maturities that has a weighted average duration that is approximately equal to the duration of our estimated liability cash flow profile. we also use derivatives to mitigate interest rate risk. although we take measures to manage the economic risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate the interest rate risk of our fixed income investments relative to our liabilities. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. credit spreads. our exposure to credit spreads primarily relates to market price volatility and cash flow variability associated with changes in such spreads. market volatility can make it difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent. in such case, valuations may include assumptions or estimates that may have significant period-to-period changes, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if there is a resumption of significant volatility in the markets, it could cause changes in credit spreads and defaults and a lack of pricing transparency which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. see also management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments investment risks. equity risk. our primary exposure to equity risk relates to the potential for lower earnings associated with certain of our businesses where fee income is earned based upon the estimated fair value of the assets under management. downturns and volatility in equity markets can have a material adverse effect on the revenues and investment returns from our savings and investment products and services. the retail variable annuity business in particular is highly sensitive to equity markets, and a sustained weakness in the equity markets could decrease revenues and earnings with respect to those products. furthermore, certain of our variable annuity products offer guaranteed benefits which increase our potential benefit exposure should equity markets decline. we use derivatives and reinsurance to mitigate the impact of such increased potential benefit exposures. we are also exposed to interest rate and equity risk based upon the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return assumptions associated with our pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. sustained declines in long-term interest rates or equity returns likely would have a negative effect on the funded status of these plans. in addition, we invest a portion of our investments in leveraged buy-out funds, hedge funds and other private equity funds. the amount and timing of net investment income from such funds tends to be uneven as a result of the performance of the underlying investments. the timing of distributions from such funds, which depends on particular events relating to the underlying investments, as well as the funds schedules for making distributions and their needs for cash, can be difficult to predict. as a result, the amount of net investment income from these investments can vary substantially from quarter to quarter. significant volatility could adversely impact returns and net investment income on these alternative investment classes. in addition, the estimated fair value of such investments may be impacted by downturns or volatility in equity markets. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. real estate risk. our primary exposure to real estate risk relates to commercial and agricultural real estate. our exposure to these risks stems from various factors, including the supply and demand of leasable commercial space, creditworthiness of tenants and partners, capital markets volatility and interest rate fluctuations. in addition, our real estate joint venture development program is subject to risks, including reduced property sales 36 table of contents and decreased availability of financing, which could adversely impact these investments. although we manage credit risk and market valuation risk for our commercial and agricultural real estate assets through geographic, property type and product type diversification, and asset allocation, general economic conditions and the recovery rate in the commercial and agricultural real estate sectors will continue to influence the performance of these investments. these factors, which are beyond our control, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows. obligor-related risks. our investment portfolio contains investments in government bonds issued by certain european union member states, europe perimeter region, as well as cyprus, and in financial institutions that have significant direct or indirect exposure to debt issued by those nations. recently, the european union member states have experienced above average public debt, inflation and unemployment as the global economic downturn has developed. a number of member states are significantly impacted by the economies of their more influential neighbors, such as germany, and financial troubles of one nation can lead to troubles in others. in particular, a number of large european banks hold significant amounts of sovereign and/or financial institution debt of other european nations and could experience difficulties as a result of defaults or declines in the value of such debt. concerns regarding these difficulties could disrupt the functioning of the financial markets. for example, this disruption could lead to the withdrawal of one or more countries from the euro zone. the extent to which our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and net investment income would be affected by any such withdrawal will depend on a number of factors, including the identity of the withdrawing country and the likelihood that other counties will follow suit. risks related to any such withdrawal could include overall economic disruption; capital flight and attendant risks to the integrity of the european union banking system; conversion to a national currency, which may be subject to devaluation as discussed further below; inflation risks; increased costs and diminished effectiveness in hedging against declines in the value of the euro; declines in the value of our investments; credit losses; and an increase in foreign currency exchange rate risks, among others. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments investment risks and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment. our investment portfolio also contains investments, primarily in revenue bonds issued under the auspices of u.s. states and municipalities, and a limited amount of general obligation bonds of u.s. states and municipalities (collectively, state and political subdivision securities ). recently, certain u.s. states and municipalities have faced budget deficits and financial difficulties. the financial difficulties of such u.s. states and municipalities could have an adverse impact on our state and political subdivision securities. foreign currency exchange rate risks. our primary foreign currency exchange rate risks are described under risks related to our business fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our profitability. changes in foreign currency exchange rates can significantly affect our net investment income in any period, and such changes can be substantial. this risk will increase if a country withdraws from the euro zone. in such case, the national currency to which such a country may revert will likely be devalued and contracts using the euro will need to be renegotiated. it is possible that any such devaluation and its related consequences for our contracts and investments in any such country could be significant and materially adversely affect our operations and earnings in that country. any operations we may have in any such withdrawing country could also be materially adversely affected by legal or governmental actions related to conversion from the euro to a national currency. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. summary . significant volatility in the markets could cause changes in interest rates, declines in equity prices, and the strengthening or weakening of foreign currencies against the u.s. dollar which, individually or in tandem, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or cash flows through realized investment losses, impairments, increased valuation allowances and changes in unrealized gain or loss positions. 37 table of contents regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth insurance regulation u.s . our insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of insurance and other laws and regulations. see business u.s. regulation insurance regulation. we anticipate that we will discuss regulatory developments from time to time in future quarterly reports on form 10-q under the caption management discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations industry trends regulatory developments. state insurance regulators and the national association of insurance commissioners ( naic ) regularly re-examine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, that are made for the benefit of the consumer sometimes lead to additional expense for the insurer and, thus, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. recently, the naic and the department of financial services have been scrutinizing insurance companies use of affiliated captive reinsurers or off-shore entities to hedge and reinsure insurance risks. like many life insurance companies, we utilize captive reinsurers to satisfy certain reserve requirements. if the department of financial services or other state insurance regulators restrict the use of such captive reinsurers, our ability to write certain products, or to hedge the associated risks efficiently, could be impaired or lead us to increase prices on those products, which could adversely impact our competitive position and our results of operations. see business u.s. regulation holding company regulation insurance regulatory examinations and note 11 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. the naic is also reviewing life insurers use of non-variable separate accounts that are insulated from general account claims, which might lead to a recommendation against the allowance of insulation for certain of our separate account products, particularly in the institutional markets. if the department of financial services or other state insurance regulators change applicable laws or regulations in accordance with such recommendation, our use of insulation for certain products could be impaired and our ability to compete effectively or do business in certain markets may be adversely affected. in addition, our financial results may also be adversely affected. see business u.s. regulation holding company regulation insurance regulatory examinations. u.s. federal regulation affecting insurance . currently, the u.s. federal government does not directly regulate the business of insurance. however, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act ( dodd-frank ) establishes the federal insurance office within the department of the treasury, which has the authority to participate in the negotiations of international insurance agreements with foreign regulators for the u.s., as well as to collect information about the insurance industry and recommend prudential standards. federal legislation and administrative policies can significantly and adversely affect insurance companies, including policies regarding financial services regulation, securities regulation, derivatives regulation, pension regulation, health care regulation, privacy, tort reform legislation and taxation. in addition, various forms of direct and indirect federal regulation of insurance have been proposed from time to time, including proposals for the establishment of an optional federal charter for insurance companies. other aspects of our insurance operations could also be affected by dodd-frank. under the so-called volker rule, dodd-frank imposes additional capital requirements and quantitative limits on certain trading and activities by a non-bank sifi. metlife, inc. could be subject to such requirements and limits were it to be designated as a non-bank sifi. see business u.s. regulation potential regulation as a non-bank sifi. non-bank sifis can be assessed under dodd-frank for any uncovered costs arising in connection with the resolution of a systemically important financial company and to cover the expenses of the office of financial research, an agency established by dodd-frank to improve the quality of financial data available to policymakers and facilitate more robust and sophisticated analysis of the financial system. 38 table of contents regulatory agencies . dodd-frank established the cfpb, which supervises and regulates institutions providing certain financial products and services to consumers. although the consumer financial services to which this legislation applies exclude insurance business of the kind in which we engage, the cfpb has authority to regulate non-insurance consumer services provided by metlife. see business u.s. regulation potential regulation as a non-bank sifi consumer protection laws. in addition, metlife, inc. subsidiary, metlife bank, national association ( metlife bank ), a federally chartered, non-deposit taking, uninsured bank, is principally regulated by the occ and the cfpb, and secondarily by the federal reserve. see business u.s. regulation banking regulation. while metlife, inc. has de-registered as a bank holding company, it may, in the future, be designated by the fsoc as a non-bank sifi, and could once again be subject to regulation by the federal reserve and subject to enhanced supervision and prudential standards. see business u.s. regulation potential regulation as a non-bank sifi enhanced prudential standards. in the wake of the recent financial crisis, national and international authorities have also proposed various measures intended to increase the intensity of regulation of large financial institutions. these measures have included enhanced risk-based capital requirements, leverage limits, liquidity requirements, single counterparty exposure limits, governance requirements for risk management, stress test requirements, special debt-to-equity limits for certain companies, and early remediation procedures, resolution and recovery planning, as well as greater coordination among regulators and efforts to harmonize regulatory regimes. the imposition of such measures could adversely affect our ability to conduct business, our results of operations and our ability to pay dividends, repurchase common stock or other securities or engage in other transactions that could affect our capital. see business u.s. regulation and business international regulation. mortgage and foreclosure-related exposures. state and federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities have initiated various inquiries, investigations and examinations of alleged irregularities in the foreclosure practices of the residential mortgage servicing industry. mortgage servicing practices have also been the subject of congressional attention. authorities have publicly stated that the scope of the investigations extends beyond foreclosure documentation practices to include mortgage loan origination, modification and loss mitigation practices. while we have reached settlements with some regulators relating to our mortgage servicing activities, it is possible that pending or additional inquiries, investigations or examinations may result in further monetary payments or other measures against us. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends mortgage and foreclosure-related exposures. regulation of brokers and dealers . dodd-frank also authorizes the sec to establish a standard of conduct applicable to brokers and dealers when providing personalized investment advice to retail and other customers. this standard of conduct would be to act in the best interest of the customer without regard to the financial or other interest of the broker or dealer providing the advice. see business u.s. regulation securities, broker-dealer and investment adviser regulation. erisa considerations. we provide products and services to certain employee benefit plans that are subject to erisa or the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ). consequently, our activities are likewise subject to the restrictions imposed by erisa and the code, including the requirement that fiduciaries must perform their duties solely in the interests of erisa plan participants and beneficiaries, and not cause a plan to engage in prohibited transactions with persons who have certain relationships with respect to those plans. the prohibited transaction rules generally restrict the provision of investment advice to erisa plans and participants and individual retirement accounts ( iras ) if the investment recommendation results in fees paid to the individual advisor, the firm or affiliate that vary according to the recommendation chosen. recently adopted regulations in this area provide some relief from these investment advice restrictions. if additional relief is not provided, the ability of our affiliated broker-dealers and their registered representatives to provide investment advice to erisa plans and participants and iras would likely be significantly restricted. other proposed regulations in this area may negatively impact the current business model of our broker-dealers, 39 table of contents including proposed changes to broaden the definition of fiduciary under erisa, thereby increasing the regulation of persons providing investment advice to erisa plans. in addition, recently effective regulations increasing the level of disclosure provided to plan sponsors and participants will likely increase the regulatory and compliance burden upon us, resulting in increased expenses for us. see business u.s. regulation employee retirement income security act of 1974 ( erisa ) considerations. international regulation . our international insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are located or operate. see business international regulation. a significant portion of our revenue is generated through operations in foreign jurisdictions, including many countries in early stages of economic and political development. our international operations may be materially adversely affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and regulators, such as any nationalization or expropriation of assets, the imposition of limits on foreign ownership of local companies, changes in laws (including tax laws and regulations), their application or interpretation, political instability, dividend limitations, price controls, changes in applicable currency, currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold to u.s. dollars or other currencies. this may also impact many of our customers and independent sales intermediaries. changes in the laws and regulations that affect these customers and independent sales intermediaries also may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or distribute our products. accordingly, these changes and actions may negatively affect our business in these jurisdictions. we expect the scope and extent of regulation outside of the u.s., as well as general regulatory oversight, to continue to increase. the authority of our international operations to conduct business is subject to licensing requirements, permits and approvals, and these authorizations are subject to modification and revocation. the regulatory environment in the countries in which we operate and changes in laws could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. see risks related to our business our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability. we are also subject to the evolving solvency ii insurance regulatory directive for our insurance business throughout the european economic area. as requirements are finalized by the regulators, capital requirements might be impacted in a number of jurisdictions. in addition, our legal entity structure throughout europe may impact our capital requirements, risk management infrastructure and reporting by country. see business international regulation. general . from time to time, regulators raise issues during examinations or audits of metlife, inc. regulated subsidiaries that could, if determined adversely, have a material impact on us. we cannot predict whether or when regulatory actions may be taken that could adversely affect our operations. in addition, the interpretations of regulations by regulators may change and statutes may be enacted with retroactive impact, particularly in areas such as accounting or statutory reserve requirements. we are also subject to other regulations and may in the future become subject to additional regulations. see business u.s. regulation and business international regulation. compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may materially increase our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. see management discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations industry trends regulatory developments for additional information on the laws and regulations affecting our business. 40 table of contents the dodd-frank provisions compelling the liquidation of certain types of financial institutions could materially and adversely affect metlife, inc., as a potential non-bank sifi and an investor in other financial institutions, and our investors under provisions of dodd-frank, if metlife, inc. is designated a non-bank sifi and it it were to become insolvent or were in danger of defaulting on its obligations, it could be compelled to undergo liquidation with the fdic as receiver. for this new regime to be applicable, a number of determinations would have to be made, including that a default by metlife, inc. would have serious adverse effects on financial stability in the united states. if the fdic were appointed as the receiver for metlife, inc., liquidation would occur under the provisions of the new liquidation authority, and not under the bankruptcy code, which ordinarily governs liquidations. in an fdic managed liquidation, holders of a company debt could be treated differently than under the bankruptcy code and similarly-situated creditors could be treated differently. in particular, unsecured creditors and shareholders are intended to bear the losses of the company being liquidated. these provisions could also apply to financial institutions whose debt securities we hold in our investment portfolio and could adversely affect our position as a creditor and the value of our holdings. dodd-frank also provides for the assessment of charges against certain financial institutions, including non-bank sifis and bank holding companies of a certain size, to cover the costs of liquidating any financial company subject to the new liquidation authority. if metlife, inc. is designated as a non-bank sifi, we could be assessed for a portion of the costs of the liquidation of a financial company that is liquidated under this authority. the liquidation authority could increase the funding costs of large bank holding companies or financial companies that might be viewed as systemically significant, such as metlife, inc. see business u.s. regulation potential regulation as a non-bank sifi orderly liquidation authority. legislative and regulatory activity in health care and other employee benefits could affect our profitability as a provider of life insurance, annuities, and non-medical health insurance benefit products the patient protection and affordable care act, signed into law on march 23, 2010, and the health care and education reconciliation act of 2010, signed into law on march 30, 2010 (together, the health care act ), may lead to fundamental changes in the way that employers, including us, provide health care benefits, other benefits, and other forms of compensation to their employees and former employees. the health care act also imposes requirements on us as a provider of non-medical health insurance benefit and other products and on the purchasers of certain of these products. the health care act or any other related regulations or regulatory actions could adversely affect our ability to offer certain of these products in the same manner as we do today. they could also result in increased or unpredictable costs to provide certain products, and could harm our competitive position if the health care act has a disparate impact on our products compared to products offered by our competitors. in addition, we employ a substantial number of employees, including sales agents, in the united states to whom we offer employment-related benefits. we also currently provide benefits to certain of our retirees. these benefits are provided under complex plans that are subject to a variety of regulatory requirements. either the health care act or related regulations or regulatory actions could adversely affect our ability to attract, retain and motivate our associates. they could also result in increased or unpredictable costs to provide employee benefits, and could harm our competitive position if we are subject to fees, penalties, tax provisions or other limitations in the health care act and our competitors are not. the preservation of access to care for medicare beneficiaries and pension relief act of 2010 also includes certain provisions for defined benefit pension plan funding relief. these provisions may impact the likelihood and/or timing of corporate plan sponsors terminating their plans and/or engaging in transactions to partially or fully transfer pension obligations to an insurance company. as part of our corporate benefit funding segment, we offer general account and separate account group annuity products that enable a plan sponsor to transfer these risks, often in connection with the termination of defined benefit pension plans. consequently, this legislation could indirectly affect the mix of our business, with fewer closeouts and more non-guaranteed funding products, and adversely impact our results of operations. 41 table of contents changes in u.s. federal and state securities laws and regulations, and state insurance regulations regarding suitability of annuity product sales, may affect our operations and our profitability federal and state securities laws and regulations apply to insurance products that are also securities, including variable annuity contracts and variable life insurance policies. as a result, some of metlife, inc. subsidiaries and their activities in offering and selling variable insurance contracts and policies are subject to extensive regulation under these securities laws. federal and state securities laws and regulations are primarily intended to ensure the integrity of the financial markets and to protect investors in the securities markets, and to protect investment advisory or brokerage clients. these laws and regulations generally grant regulatory agencies broad rulemaking and enforcement powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with the securities laws and regulations. a number of changes have recently been suggested to the laws and regulations that govern the conduct of our variable insurance products business and our distributors that could change the way we conduct our business and the products we sell. this may adversely affect our operations and profitability, including increasing the regulatory and compliance burden upon us, resulting in increased costs. see business u.s. regulation securities, broker-dealer and investment advisor regulation. we also may be subject to similar laws and regulations in the foreign countries in which we offer products or conduct other activities similar to those described above. see business international regulation. changes in tax laws, tax regulations, or interpretations of such laws or regulations could reduce our earnings and materially impact our operations by increasing our corporate taxes and making some of our products less attractive to consumers changes in tax laws, treasury and other regulations promulgated thereunder, or interpretations of such laws or regulations could increase our corporate taxes and reduce our earnings. the obama administration has proposed corporate tax changes. changes in corporate tax rates could affect the value of our deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. furthermore, the value of deferred tax assets could be impacted by future earnings levels. currently, u.s. tax laws afford certain benefits to life insurance and annuity products. the obama administration has also proposed certain changes to individual income tax rates and rules applicable to certain of these products. changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to consumers. a shift away from life insurance and annuity contracts and other tax-deferred products by our customers would reduce our income from sales of these products, as well as the asset base upon which we earn investment income and fees, thereby reducing our earnings. litigation and regulatory investigations are increasingly common in our businesses and may result in significant financial losses and/or harm to our reputation we face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. our pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings specific to us and others generally applicable to business practices in the industries in which we operate. in connection with our insurance operations, plaintiffs lawyers may bring or are bringing class actions and individual suits alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or underwriting practices, claims payments and procedures, product design, disclosure, administration, denial or delay of benefits and breaches of fiduciary or other duties to customers. plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages. due to the vagaries of litigation, the outcome of a litigation matter and the amount or range of potential loss at particular points in time may normally be difficult to ascertain. uncertainties can include how fact finders will evaluate documentary evidence and the credibility and effectiveness of witness testimony, and how trial and appellate courts will apply the law in the context of the pleadings or evidence presented, whether by motion practice, or at trial or on appeal. disposition valuations are also subject to the uncertainty of how opposing parties and their counsel will themselves view the 42 table of contents relevant evidence and applicable law. material pending litigation and regulatory matters affecting us and risks to our business presented by these proceedings are discussed in note 21 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. updates are provided in the notes to our interim condensed consolidated financial statements included in our quarterly reports on form 10-q, as well as in part ii, item 1 ( legal proceedings ) of those quarterly reports. we are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as information requests, subpoenas and books and record examinations, from state and federal regulators and other authorities. a substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against us, as well as regulatory inquiries or investigations could harm our reputation, result in material fines or penalties, result in significant legal costs and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation, regulatory action or investigation, our ability to attract new customers, retain our current customers and recruit and retain employees could be materially and adversely impacted. regulatory inquiries and litigation may also cause volatility in the price of stocks of companies in our industry. current claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and other proceedings against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. it is also possible that related or unrelated claims, litigation, unasserted claims probable of assertion, investigations and proceedings may be commenced in the future, and we could become subject to further investigations and have lawsuits filed or enforcement actions initiated against us. we currently have a market presence in over 45 countries and may be subject to additional investigations and lawsuits in these jurisdictions. increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings in any of the countries where we operate could result in new legal actions and precedents and industry-wide regulations that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. investments-related risks should the need arise, we may have difficulty selling certain holdings in our investment portfolio or our securities lending program in a timely manner and realizing full value given their illiquid nature there may be a limited market for certain investments we hold in our investment portfolio, making them relatively illiquid. these include privately-placed fixed maturity securities, mortgage loans, policy loans, leveraged leases, equity real estate, such as real estate joint ventures and funds, and other limited partnership interests. in recent years, even some of our very high quality investments experienced reduced liquidity during periods of market volatility or disruption. if we were forced to sell certain of our investments during periods of market volatility or disruption, market prices may be lower than our carrying value in such investments. this could result in realized losses which could have a material adverse effect on our net income and financial position. similarly, we loan blocks of our securities to third parties (primarily brokerage firms and commercial banks) through our securities lending program, including fixed maturity and equity securities, short-term investments and cash equivalents. under this program, we obtain collateral, usually cash, at the inception of a loan and typically purchase securities with the cash collateral. upon the return to us of these loaned securities, we must return to the third party the cash collateral we received. if the cash collateral has been invested in securities, we need to sell the securities. however, in some cases, the maturity of those securities may exceed the term of the related securities on loan and the estimated fair value of the securities we need to sell may fall below the amount of cash received. if we are required to return significant amounts of cash collateral under our securities lending program or otherwise need significant amounts of cash on short notice and we are forced to sell securities, we may have difficulty selling such collateral that is invested in securities in a timely manner, be forced to sell securities in a 43 table of contents volatile or illiquid market for less than we otherwise would have been able to realize under normal market conditions, or both. in the event of a forced sale, accounting guidance requires the recognition of a loss for securities in an unrealized loss position and may require the impairment of other securities based on our ability to hold those securities, which would negatively impact our financial condition. in addition, under stressful capital market and economic conditions, liquidity broadly deteriorates, which may further restrict our ability to sell securities. furthermore, if we decrease the amount of our securities lending activities over time, the amount of net investment income generated by these activities will also likely decline. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital uses securities lending. our requirements to pledge collateral or make payments related to declines in estimated fair value of specified assets may adversely affect our liquidity and expose us to counterparty credit risk some of our financing transactions require us to pledge collateral related to any decline in the estimated fair value of the specified assets under certain circumstances. similarly, the terms of some of our financing transactions require us to make payments to our counterparties related to any decline in the estimated fair value of certain specified assets. the amount of collateral we may be required to pledge and the payments we may be required to make under these agreements may increase under certain circumstances and will likely increase under dodd-frank, which could adversely affect our liquidity. see business u.s. regulation holding company regulation regulation of over-the-counter derivatives, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital uses pledged collateral and note 13 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity and equity securities and defaults, downgrades or other events may result in future impairments to the carrying value of such securities, resulting in a reduction in our net income fixed maturity securities represent a significant portion of our investment portfolio. fixed maturity and equity securities classified as available-for-sale ( afs ) securities are reported at their estimated fair value. unrealized gains or losses on afs securities are recognized as a component of other comprehensive income (loss) and are, therefore, excluded from net income. in recent periods, as a result of low interest rates, the unrealized gains on our fixed maturity securities have far exceeded the unrealized losses. however, if interest rates rise, our unrealized gains would decrease and our unrealized losses would increase, perhaps substantially. the accumulated change in estimated fair value of these afs securities is recognized in net income when the gain or loss is realized upon the sale of the security or in the event that the decline in estimated fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary and an impairment charge to earnings is taken. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments fixed maturity and equity securities afs. the occurrence of a major economic downturn, acts of corporate malfeasance, widening risk spreads, or other events that adversely affect the issuers, guarantors or underlying collateral of structured securities could cause the estimated fair value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio and corresponding earnings to decline and cause the default rate of the fixed maturity securities in our investment portfolio to increase. a ratings downgrade affecting issuers or guarantors of particular securities, or similar trends that could worsen the credit quality of issuers, such as the corporate issuers of securities in our investment portfolio, could also have a similar effect. with economic uncertainty, credit quality of issuers or guarantors could be adversely affected. similarly, a ratings downgrade affecting a security we hold could indicate the credit quality of that security has deteriorated and could increase the capital we must hold to support that security to maintain our rbc levels. levels of writedowns or impairments are impacted by intent to sell, or our assessment of the likelihood that we will be required to sell, fixed maturity securities, as well as our intent and ability to hold equity securities which have declined in value until recovery. realized losses or impairments on these securities may have a material adverse effect on our net income in a particular quarterly or annual period. 44 table of contents our valuation of securities and investments and the determination of the amount of allowances and impairments taken on our investments are subjective and include methodologies, estimations and assumptions which are subject to differing interpretations and market conditions and, if changed, could materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition fixed maturity, equity, fair value option and trading securities, as well as short-term investments that are reported at estimated fair value represent the majority of our total cash and investments. we define fair value generally as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability. considerable judgment is often required in interpreting market data to develop estimates of fair value, and the use of different assumptions or valuation methodologies may have a material effect of the estimated fair value amounts. during periods of market disruption including periods of significantly rising or high interest rates, rapidly widening credit spreads or illiquidity, it may be difficult to value certain of our securities if trading becomes less frequent and/or market data becomes less observable. in addition, in times of financial market disruption, certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data may become illiquid. in those cases, the valuation process includes inputs that are less observable and require more subjectivity and management judgment. valuations may result in estimated fair values which vary significantly from the amount at which the investments may ultimately be sold. further, rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements and the period-to-period changes in estimated fair value could vary significantly. decreases in the fair value of securities we hold may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments and notes 1 and 10 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. the determination of the amount of allowances and impairments varies by investment type and is based upon our periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class. such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. we reflect any changes in allowances and impairments in earnings as such evaluations are revised. however, historical trends may not be indicative of future impairments or allowances. in addition, any such future impairments or allowances could have a materially adverse effect on our earnings and financial position. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates investment impairments and note 8 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. defaults on our mortgage loans and volatility in performance may adversely affect our profitability our mortgage loans face default risk and are principally collateralized by commercial, agricultural and residential properties. we establish valuation allowances for estimated impairments, which are based on loan risk characteristics, historical default rates and loss severities, real estate market fundamentals and outlooks, as well as other relevant factors. in addition, substantially all of our mortgage loans held-for-investment have balloon payment maturities. an increase in the default rate of our mortgage loan investments or fluctuations in their performance could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. further, any geographic or sector concentration of our mortgage loans may have adverse effects on our investment portfolios and consequently on our results of operations or financial condition. while we seek to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are concentrated. moreover, our ability to sell assets relating to such particular groups of related assets may be limited if other market participants are seeking to sell at the same time. in addition, legislative proposals that would allow or require modifications to the terms of mortgage loans could be enacted. we cannot predict whether these proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if enacted, such laws, could have on our business or investments. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments mortgage loans. 45 table of contents the defaults or deteriorating credit of other financial institutions could adversely affect us we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, hedge funds and investment funds and other financial institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty. in addition, with respect to secured transactions, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. we also have exposure to these financial institutions in the form of unsecured debt instruments, non-redeemable and redeemable preferred securities, derivatives, joint venture, hedge fund and equity investments. further, potential action by governments and regulatory bodies in response to the financial crisis affecting the global banking system and financial markets, such as investment, nationalization, conservatorship, receivership and other intervention, whether under existing legal authority or any new authority that may be created, or lack of action by european union member governments and central banks, as well as deterioration in the banks credit standing, could negatively impact these instruments, securities, transactions and investments or limit our ability to trade with them. any such losses or impairments to the carrying value of these investments or other changes may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. risks related to our business our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability our international operations face political, legal, financial, operational and other risks. these operations may be materially adversely affected by the actions and decisions of foreign authorities and regulators, such as through nationalization or expropriation of assets, the imposition of limits on foreign ownership of local companies, changes in laws (including tax laws and regulations), their application or interpretation, political instability, dividend limitations, price controls, changes in applicable currency, currency exchange controls or other restrictions that prevent us from transferring funds from these operations out of the countries in which they operate or converting local currencies we hold into u.s. dollars or other currencies, as well as other adverse actions by foreign governmental authorities and regulators, such as the retroactive application of new requirements on our current and prior activities or operations. such actions may negatively affect our business in these jurisdictions and could indirectly affect our business in other jurisdictions as well. some of our foreign insurance operations are, and are likely to continue to be, in emerging markets where these risks are heightened. see business international regulation and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk, as well as regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. for example, in recent years, the operating environment in argentina has been very challenging. we were formerly principally engaged in the pension business there, but in december 2008, the argentine government nationalized the social security system and moved pension fund assets into the government-run system, effectively eliminating the private pension companies in argentina. this substantially reduced our presence in argentina. acccordingly, we have experienced and will continue to experience reductions in the operation revenues and cash flows. more recent governmental actions have significantly limited our ability to run independently our argentine operation, which could further reduce this operation revenues and increase its compliance costs and other expenses. see business international regulation. we also have operations in the middle east where the legal and political systems and regulatory frameworks are subject to instability and disruptions. instability has increased in many parts of the middle east as a result of the arab spring movement. lack of legal certainty and stability in the region exposes our operations to increased risk of disruption and to adverse or unpredictable actions by regulators and may make it more difficult for us to enforce our contracts, which may negatively impact our business in this region. 46 table of contents we have market presence in over 45 different countries and increased exposure to risks posed by local and regional economic conditions. europe has recently experienced a deep recession and appears to have entered another recession. a recession in europe could adversely impact the demand for our products, negatively impact earnings, adversely affect the performance of our investments or result in impairments, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. see economic environment and capital markets-related risks if difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally persist, they may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. countries in europe perimeter region, as well as cyprus, have been particularly affected by the recession, resulting in increased national debts and depressed economic activity. we have significant operations and investments in these countries which could be adversely affected by economic developments such as higher taxes, growing inflation, decreasing government spending, rising unemployment and currency instability. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments current environment. in addition, we face substantial exposure to the japanese markets as a result of our considerable presence there. the japanese economy continues to be weak and may experience further disruptions, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. see risks related to our business fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our profitability, and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends financial and economic environment. furthermore, we rely on local sales forces in these countries and may encounter labor problems resulting from workers associations and trade unions in some countries. in several countries, including china and india, we operate with local business partners and managing these partner relationships poses risks to our business objectives. if our business model is not successful in a particular country, we may lose all or most of our investment in building and training the sales force in that country. lastly, we are continuing to expand our international operations in certain markets where we operate and in selected new markets. this may require considerable management time, as well as start-up expenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. operations in new foreign markets may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in existing markets may be affected by local political, economic and market conditions. therefore, as we expand internationally, we may not achieve expected operating margins and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our profitability we are exposed to risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar resulting from our holdings of non-u.s. dollar denominated investments, investments in foreign subsidiaries and net income from foreign operations and issuance of non-u.s. dollar denominated instruments, including guaranteed interest contracts and funding agreements. in general, the weakening of foreign currencies versus the u.s. dollar will adversely affect the estimated fair value of our non-u.s. dollar denominated investments, our investments in foreign subsidiaries, and our net income from foreign operations. in addition, from time to time, various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies. our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk is exacerbated by our investments in these emerging markets. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in addition, certain of our life and annuity products are exposed to foreign exchange rate risk. payments under these contracts, depending on the circumstances, may be required to be made in different currencies and may not be the legal tender in the country whose law governs the particular product. changes in exchange rate movements and the imposition of capital controls may also directly impact the liability valuation that may not be entirely hedged. if the currency upon which expected future payments are made strengthens, the liability valuation may increase, which may result in a reduction of net income. 47 table of contents historically, we have matched substantially all of our foreign currency liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with investments denominated in their respective foreign currency, which limits the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuation on local operating results; however, fluctuations in such rates affect the translation of these results into our u.s. dollar basis consolidated financial statements. although we take certain actions to address this risk, including entering into foreign currency derivatives, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation could materially adversely affect our reported results due to unhedged positions or the failure of hedges to effectively offset the impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. see quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we face substantial exposure to risks associated with fluctuations in the yen/u.s. dollar exchange rate because we now have substantial operations in japan and a significant portion of our premiums and investment income in japan are received in yen. most claims and expenses associated with our operations in japan are also paid in yen and we primarily purchase yen-denominated assets to support yen-denominated policy liabilities. these and other yen-denominated financial statement items are, however, translated into u.s. dollars for financial reporting purposes. accordingly, fluctuations in the yen/u.s. dollar exchange rate can have a significant effect on our reported financial position and results of operations. our japan operation does assume some currency exposure by backing a portion of surplus and yen-denominated liabilities with u.s. dollar assets. although this represents risk to our japan operation, this activity reduces yen exposure at the enterprise level. due to our significant international operations, during periods when any foreign currency in which we derive our revenues weakens (strengthens), translating amounts expressed in that currency into u.s. dollars causes fewer (more) u.s. dollars to be reported. any unrealized foreign currency translation adjustments are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). the weakening of a foreign currency relative to the u.s. dollar will generally adversely affect the value of investments in u.s. dollar terms and reduce the level of reserves denominated in that currency. an inability to access our credit facilities could result in a reduction in our liquidity and lead to downgrades in our credit and financial strength ratings we rely on our credit facilities as a potential source of liquidity. the availability of these facilities could be critical to our credit and financial strength ratings and our ability to meet our obligations as they come due in a market when alternative sources of credit are tight. these credit facilities contain certain administrative, reporting, legal and financial covenants, including a requirement to maintain a specified minimum consolidated net worth. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital sources credit and committed facilities and note 12 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. our right to borrow funds under these facilities is subject to the fulfillment of certain important conditions, including our compliance with all covenants, and our ability to borrow under these facilities is also subject to the continued willingness and ability of the lenders that are parties to the facilities to provide funds. our failure to comply with the covenants in the credit facilities or fulfill the conditions to borrowings, or the failure of lenders to fund their lending commitments (whether due to insolvency, illiquidity or other reasons) in the amounts provided for under the terms of the facilities, would restrict our ability to access these credit facilities when needed and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may need to fund deficiencies in our closed block; assets allocated to the closed block benefit only the holders of closed block policies mlic plan of reorganization, as amended (the plan ), established in connection with its demutualization, required that we establish and operate an accounting mechanism, known as a closed block, to ensure that the reasonable dividend expectations of policyholders who own certain individual insurance policies of mlic are met. see note 7 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. we allocated assets to the closed block in 48 table of contents an amount that will produce cash flows which, together with anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block, are reasonably expected to be sufficient to support obligations and liabilities relating to these policies, including, but not limited to, provisions for the payment of claims and certain expenses and tax, and to provide for the continuation of the policyholder dividend scales in effect for 1999, if the experience underlying such scales continues, and for appropriate adjustments in such scales if the experience changes. the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenue from the policies included in the closed block may not be sufficient to provide for the benefits guaranteed under these policies. if they are not, we must fund the shortfall. even if they are sufficient, we may choose, for competitive reasons, to support policyholder dividend payments with our general account funds. the closed block assets, the cash flows generated by the closed block assets and the anticipated revenues from the policies in the closed block will benefit only the holders of the policies in the closed block. in addition, to the extent that these amounts are greater than the amounts estimated at the time the closed block was funded, dividends payable in respect of the policies included in the closed block may be greater than they would be in the absence of a closed block. any excess earnings will be available for distribution over time only to closed block policyholders. a downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could result in a loss of business and materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations financial strength ratings, are published by various nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ( nrsro ) and similar entities not formally recognized as nrsros. they indicate the nrsros opinion regarding an insurance company ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations, are important to maintaining public confidence in our products and our competitive position. downgrades in our financial strength ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including: reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other investment products; adversely affecting our relationships with our sales force and independent sales intermediaries; materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders; requiring us to post additional collateral under certain of our financing transactions; requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and services to remain competitive; and adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance at reasonable prices or at all. in addition to the financial strength ratings of our insurance subsidiaries, various nrsros also publish credit ratings for metlife, inc. and several of its subsidiaries. credit ratings indicate the nrsros opinion regarding a debt issuer ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner and are important factors in our overall funding profile and ability to access certain types of liquidity. downgrades in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including limiting our access to capital markets, potentially increasing the cost of debt, and requiring us to post collateral. see note 9 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding the impact of a one-notch downgrade with respect to derivative transactions with credit rating downgrade triggers and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources the company liquidity and capital uses pledged collateral for information on the impact of a two-notch downgrade. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations the company capital rating agencies. in view of the difficulties experienced by many financial institutions as a result of the global recession, including our competitors in the insurance industry, we believe it is possible that the nrsros will continue to 49 table of contents heighten the level of scrutiny that they apply to insurance companies, will continue to increase the frequency and scope of their credit reviews, will continue to request additional information from the companies that they rate, and may adjust upward the capital and other requirements employed in the models for maintenance of certain ratings levels. our ratings could be downgraded at any time and without notice by any nrsro. reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses as part of our overall risk management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various business segments. while reinsurance agreements generally bind the reinsurer for the life of the business reinsured at generally fixed pricing, market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection for new business. in certain circumstances, the price of reinsurance for business already reinsured may also increase. any decrease in the amount of reinsurance will increase our risk of loss and any increase in the cost of reinsurance will, absent a decrease in the amount of reinsurance, reduce our earnings. accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business or result in the assumption of more risk with respect to those policies we issue. see business reinsurance activity and risks related to our business if the counterparties to our reinsurance or indemnification arrangements or to the derivatives we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. if the counterparties to our reinsurance or indemnification arrangements or to the derivatives we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations we use reinsurance, indemnification and derivatives to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. in general, reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers and indemnitors. a reinsurer or indemnitor insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of reinsurance agreements or indemnity agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, including our liquidity. in addition, we use derivatives to hedge various business risks. we enter into a variety of derivatives, including options, forwards, interest rate, credit default and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations investments. if our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under these derivatives, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. this risk is more pronounced in light of the stresses suffered by financial institutions over the past few years. such failure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. see business reinsurance activity. differences between actual claims experience and underwriting and reserving assumptions may adversely affect our financial results our earnings significantly depend upon the extent to which our actual claims experience is consistent with the assumptions we use in setting prices for our products and establishing liabilities for future policy benefits and claims. such amounts are established based on estimates by actuaries of how much we will need to pay for future benefits and claims. to the extent that actual claims experience is less favorable than the underlying assumptions we used in establishing such liabilities, we could be required to increase our liabilities. due to the nature of the underlying risks and the high degree of uncertainty associated with the determination of liabilities for future policy benefits and claims, we cannot determine precisely the amounts which we will ultimately pay to settle our liabilities. such amounts may vary from the estimated amounts, particularly when those payments may not occur until well into the future. we evaluate our liabilities periodically based on 50 table of contents accounting requirements, which change from time to time, the assumptions used to establish the liabilities, as well as our actual experience. if the liabilities originally established for future benefit payments prove inadequate, we must increase them. such increases could affect earnings negatively and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. see business policyholder liabilities and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations policyholder liabilities. our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect our business we have devoted significant resources to develop and periodically update our risk management policies and procedures to reflect ongoing review of our risks and expect to continue to do so in the future. nonetheless, our policies and procedures may not be comprehensive and may not identify every risk to which we are exposed. many of our methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior or statistics based on historical models. as a result, these methods may not fully predict future exposures, which can be significantly greater than our historical measures indicate. other risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients, catastrophe occurrence or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. this information may not always be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. in addition, more extensive and perhaps different risk management policies and procedures might have to be implemented under pending regulations. see business u.s. regulation potential regulation as a non-bank sifi and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. catastrophes may adversely impact liabilities for policyholder claims and reinsurance availability our insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic events. the extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. most catastrophes are restricted to small geographic areas; however, hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis and man-made catastrophes may produce significant damage or loss of life or property damage in larger areas, especially those that are heavily populated. claims resulting from catastrophic events could cause substantial volatility in our financial results for any fiscal quarter or year and could materially reduce our profitability or harm our financial condition. in addition, catastrophic events could harm the financial condition of issuers of obligations we hold in our investment portfolio, resulting in impairments to these obligations, and the financial condition of our reinsurers, thereby increasing the probability of default on reinsurance recoveries. large-scale catastrophes may also reduce the overall level of economic activity in affected countries which could hurt our business and the value of our investments or our ability to write new business. it is possible that increases in the value, caused by the effects of inflation or other factors, and geographic concentration of insured lives or property, could increase the severity of claims we receive from future catastrophic events. our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of catastrophic mortality, such as a pandemic or other event that causes a large number of deaths. significant influenza pandemics have occurred three times in the last century; however, the likelihood, timing, and severity of a future pandemic cannot be predicted. a significant pandemic could have a major impact on the global economy or the economies of particular countries or regions, including travel, trade, tourism, the health system, food supply, consumption, overall economic output and, eventually, on the financial markets. in addition, a pandemic that affected our employees or the employees of our distributors or of other companies with which we do business could disrupt our business operations. the effectiveness of external parties, including governmental and non-governmental organizations, in combating the spread and severity of such a pandemic could have a material impact on the losses experienced by us. in our group insurance operations, a localized event that affects the workplace of one or more of our group insurance customers could cause a significant loss due to mortality or morbidity claims. these events could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations in any period and, depending on their severity, could also materially and adversely affect our financial condition. 51 table of contents our property &amp; casualty businesses have experienced, and will likely in the future experience, catastrophe losses that may have a material adverse impact on their business, results of operations and financial condition. although we make every effort to limit our exposure to catastrophic risks through volatility management and reinsurance programs, these efforts do not eliminate all risk. catastrophes can be caused by various events, including hurricanes, windstorms, earthquakes, hail, tornadoes, explosions, severe winter weather (including snow, freezing water, ice storms and blizzards), fires and man-made events such as terrorist attacks. historically, substantially all of our property &amp; casualty catastrophe-related claims have related to homeowners coverages. however, catastrophes may also affect other property &amp; casualty coverages. due to their nature, we cannot predict the incidence, timing and severity of catastrophes. in addition, changing climate conditions, primarily rising global temperatures, may increase the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes such as hurricanes. areas of major hurricane exposure include coastal sections of the northeastern u.s. (including lower new york, connecticut, rhode island and massachusetts), the gulf coast (including alabama, mississippi, louisiana and texas) and florida. we also have some earthquake exposure, primarily along the new madrid fault line in the central u.s. and in the pacific northwest. consistent with industry practice and accounting standards, we establish liabilities for claims arising from a catastrophe only after assessing the probable losses arising from the event. we cannot be certain that the liabilities we have established will be adequate to cover actual claim liabilities. from time to time, states have passed legislation that has the effect of limiting the ability of insurers to manage risk, such as legislation restricting an insurer ability to withdraw from catastrophe-prone areas. while we attempt to limit our exposure to acceptable levels, subject to restrictions imposed by insurance regulatory authorities, a catastrophic event or multiple catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. most of the jurisdictions in which our u.s. insurance subsidiaries are admitted to transact business require life and property &amp; casualty insurers doing business within the jurisdiction to participate in guaranty associations. these associations are organized to pay contractual benefits owed pursuant to insurance policies issued by impaired, insolvent or failed insurers, who may become impaired, insolvent or fail, for example, following the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events. these associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is engaged. in addition, certain states have government owned or controlled organizations providing life and property &amp; casualty insurance to their citizens. the activities of such organizations could also place additional stress on the adequacy of guaranty fund assessments. many of these organizations also have the power to levy assessments similar to those of the guaranty associations described above. some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. see business u.s. regulation insurance regulation guaranty associations and similar arrangements and business international regulation. while in the past five years, the aggregate assessments levied against metlife, inc. insurance subsidiaries have not been material, it is possible that a large catastrophic event could render such guaranty funds inadequate and we may be called upon to contribute additional amounts, which may have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations in a particular period. we have established liabilities for guaranty fund assessments that we consider adequate, but additional liabilities may be necessary. see note 21 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. our ability to manage this risk and the profitability of our property &amp; casualty and life insurance businesses depends in part on our ability to obtain catastrophe reinsurance, which may not be available at commercially acceptable rates in the future. see risks related to our business reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses. 52 table of contents our statutory life insurance reserve financings may be subject to cost increases and new financings may be subject to limited market capacity to support statutory reserves for several products, including, but not limited to, our level premium term life and universal life with secondary guarantees and mlic closed block, we currently utilize capital markets solutions for financing a portion of our statutory reserve requirements. while we have financing facilities in place for certain previously written business, certain of these facilities are subject to cost increases upon the occurrence of specified ratings downgrades of metlife or are subject to periodic repricing. any resulting cost increases could negatively impact our financial results. future capacity for these statutory reserve funding structures in the marketplace is not guaranteed. currently, the use of captive reinsurers is being studied by the department of financial services and the naic. see regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. if the department of financial services or other state insurance regulators determine to restrict the use of captive reinsurers for purposes of funding reserve requirements or capacity in the capital markets otherwise becomes unavailable for a prolonged period of time, thereby hindering our ability to obtain funding for these new structures, our ability to write additional business in a cost effective manner may be impacted. competitive factors may adversely affect our market share and profitability we believe competition amongst insurance companies is based on a number of factors, including service, product features, scale, price, financial strength, claims-paying ratings, credit ratings, e-business capabilities and name recognition. we compete globally, with a large number of other insurance companies, as well as non-insurance financial services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers and asset managers, for individual consumers, employers and other group customers and agents and other distributors of insurance and investment products. some of these companies offer a broader array of products, have more competitive pricing or, with respect to other insurance companies, have higher claims paying ability ratings. some may also have greater financial resources with which to compete. in some circumstances, national banks that sell annuity products of life insurers may also have pre-existing customer bases for financial services products. additionally, many of our group insurance products are underwritten annually. there is a risk that group purchasers may be able to obtain more favorable terms from competitors than they could renewing coverage with us. these competitive pressures may adversely affect the persistency of these and other products, as well as our ability to sell our products in the future. furthermore, the investment management and securities brokerage businesses have relatively few barriers to entry and continually attract new entrants. see business competition. the insurance industry distributes many of its individual products through other financial institutions such as banks and broker-dealers. an increase in bank and broker-dealer consolidation activity may negatively impact the industry sales, and such consolidation could increase competition for access to distributors, result in greater distribution expenses and impair our ability to market insurance products to our current customer base or to expand our customer base. consolidation of distributors and/or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to us. in addition, since numerous aspects of our business are subject to regulation, legislative and other changes affecting the regulatory environment for our business may have, over time, the effect of supporting or burdening some aspects of the financial services industry more than others. this can affect our competitive position within the life insurance industry and within the broader financial services industry. see business u.s. regulation, business international regulation, regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth, and regulatory and legal risks changes in u.s. federal and state securities laws and regulations, and state insurance regulations regarding suitability of annuity product sales, may affect our operations and our profitability. 53 table of contents if our business does not perform well, we may be required to recognize an impairment of our goodwill or other long-lived assets or to establish a valuation allowance against the deferred income tax asset, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition goodwill is the excess of cost over the estimated fair value of net assets acquired which represents the future economic benefits arising from such net assets acquired that could not be individually identified. goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances, such as adverse changes in the business climate, indicate that the implied fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying value of that reporting unit. we perform our annual goodwill impairment testing during the third quarter of each year based upon data as of the close of the second quarter. goodwill associated with a business acquisition is not tested for impairment during the year the business is acquired unless there is a significant identified impairment event. impairment testing is performed using the fair value approach, which requires the use of estimates and judgment, at the reporting unit level. a reporting unit is the operating segment or a business one level below the operating segment under certain circumstances. the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is impacted by the performance of the business, which may be adversely impacted by prolonged market declines. if it is determined that the goodwill has been impaired, we must write down the goodwill by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net income. such writedowns could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. for instance, for the third quarter of 2012, we reported a $1.6 billion, after tax, goodwill impairment, which reflects the impact of the then current market and economic conditions on the estimated fair value of our u.s. retail annuity business. this impairment contributed to a net loss of $984 million reported by us for that period. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates goodwill and note 11 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. long-lived assets, including assets such as real estate, also require impairment testing. this testing is done to determine whether changes in circumstances indicate that we will be unable to recover the carrying amount of the asset group. such writedowns could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. deferred income tax represents the tax effect of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. deferred tax assets are assessed periodically by management to determine if they are realizable. factors in management determination include the performance of the business including the ability to generate future taxable income. if, based on available information, it is more likely than not that the deferred income tax asset will not be realized then a valuation allowance must be established with a corresponding charge to net income. such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. in addition, changes in the corporate tax rates could affect the value of our deferred tax assets and may require a write-off of some of those assets. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates income tax. if our business does not perform well or if actual experience versus estimates used in valuing and amortizing dac, deferred sales inducements ( dsi ) and voba vary significantly, we may be required to accelerate the amortization and/or impair the dac, dsi and voba which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition we incur significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal insurance business. costs that are related directly to the successful acquisition of new and renewal insurance business are deferred and referred to as dac. bonus amounts credited to certain policyholders, either immediately upon receiving a deposit or as excess interest credits for a period of time, are deferred and referred to as dsi. the recovery of dac and dsi is dependent upon the future profitability of the related business. the amount of future profit or margin is dependent principally on investment returns in excess of the amounts credited to policyholders, mortality, morbidity, persistency, interest crediting rates, dividends paid to policyholders, expenses to administer the 54 table of contents business, creditworthiness of reinsurance counterparties and certain economic variables, such as inflation. of these factors, we anticipate that investment returns are most likely to impact the rate of amortization of such costs. the aforementioned factors enter into management estimates of gross profits or margins, which generally are used to amortize such costs. if actual gross profits or margins are less than originally expected, then the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to income. significant or sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of dac and dsi related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations industry trends impact of sustained low interest rate environment for a discussion of how significantly lower spreads may cause us to accelerate amortization, thereby reducing net income in the affected reporting period. voba represents the excess of book value over the estimated fair value of acquired insurance, annuity, and investment-type contracts in-force at the acquisition date. the estimated fair value of the acquired liabilities is based on actuarially determined projections, by each block of business, of future policy and contract charges, premiums, mortality and morbidity, separate account performance, surrenders, operating expenses, investment returns, nonperformance risk adjustment and other factors. in the event actual experience on the purchased business varies from these projections, we will be required to revise our estimates, which results in changes to the amounts expensed in the reporting period in which the revisions are made and also could result in a charge to income. in addition, voba is amortized similarly to dac and dsi. accordingly, an acceleration of the amortization of voba would occur if actual gross profits or margins are less than originally expected. in such a case, the amortization of such costs would be accelerated in the period in which the actual experience is known and would result in a charge to net income. furthermore, significant or sustained equity market declines could result in an acceleration of amortization of the voba related to variable annuity and variable universal life contracts, resulting in a charge to income. such adjustments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations summary of critical accounting estimates deferred policy acquisition costs and value of business acquired and note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further consideration of dac and voba. guarantees within certain of our products may decrease our earnings, increase the volatility of our results, result in higher risk management costs and expose us to increased counterparty risk certain of our variable annuity products include guaranteed benefits, including guaranteed minimum death benefits, guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits, guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits, and guaranteed minimum income benefits. these guarantees are designed to protect policyholders against significant downturns in equity markets and interest rates. any such periods of significant and sustained downturns in equity markets, increased equity volatility, or reduced interest rates could result in an increase in the valuation of our liabilities associated with those products. an increase in these liabilities would result in a decrease in our net income. we use hedging and risk management strategies to mitigate the liability exposure and the volatility of net income associated with these liabilities. these strategies involve the use of reinsurance and derivatives, which may not be completely effective. for example, in the event that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay, we remain liable for the guaranteed benefits. see risks related to our business if the counterparties to our reinsurance or indemnification arrangements or to the derivatives we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, hedging instruments may not effectively offset the costs of guarantees or may otherwise be insufficient in relation to our obligations. furthermore, we are subject to the risk that changes in policyholder 55 table of contents behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events, produce economic losses not addressed by the risk management techniques employed. these, individually or collectively, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including net income, financial condition or liquidity. see management discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition policyholder liabilities variable annuity guarantees and note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further consideration of the risks associated with guaranteed benefits. acquisition-related risks we could face unforeseen liabilities, asset impairments or rating actions arising from acquisitions and dispositions of businesses or difficulties integrating and managing growth of such businesses we have engaged in dispositions and acquisitions of businesses in the past, and expect to continue to do so in the future. such activity exposes us to a number of risks. for example, there could be unforeseen liabilities or asset impairments, including goodwill impairments, that arise in connection with the businesses that we may sell or the businesses that we may acquire in the future. in addition, there may be liabilities or asset impairments that we fail, or are unable, to discover in the course of performing acquisition-related due diligence investigations. furthermore, even for obligations and liabilities that we do discover during the due diligence process, neither the valuation adjustment nor the contractual protections we negotiate may be sufficient to fully protect us from losses. although we generally have rights to indemnification for certain losses, our rights are limited by survival periods for bringing claims and limitations on the nature and amount of losses we may recover, and we cannot be certain that indemnification will be, among other things, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any loss we may suffer. for example, we are indemnified under the stock purchase agreement dated as of march 7, 2010, as amended, by and among metlife, inc. aig and am holdings (the stock purchase agreement ), for various tax matters, including u.s. federal income taxes attributable to periods during which the alico business was included in aig consolidated federal income tax return. it is possible, however, that any such indemnification may not be fully collectible. furthermore, the use of our own funds as consideration in any acquisition would consume capital resources, which could affect our capital plan and render those funds unavailable for other corporate purposes. we also may not be able to raise sufficient funds to consummate an acquisition if, for example, we are unable to sell our securities or close related bridge credit facilities. moreover, as a result of uncertainty and risks associated with potential acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, rating agencies may take certain actions with respect to the ratings assigned to metlife, inc. and/or its subsidiaries. our ability to achieve certain benefits we anticipate from any acquisitions of businesses will depend in large part upon our ability to successfully integrate such businesses in an efficient and effective manner. we may not be able to integrate such businesses smoothly or successfully, and the process may take longer than expected. the integration of operations and differences in operational culture may require the dedication of significant management resources, which may distract management attention from day-to-day business. if we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of such acquired businesses, we may be unable to realize the benefits we expect to achieve as a result of such acquisitions and our business and results of operations may be less than expected. the success with which we are able to integrate acquired operations will depend on our ability to manage a variety of issues, including the following: loss of key personnel or higher than expected employee attrition rates could adversely affect the performance of the acquired business and our ability to integrate it successfully. customers of the acquired business may reduce, delay or defer decisions concerning their use of its products and services as a result of the acquisition or uncertainty related to the consummation of the acquisition, including, for example, potential unfamiliarity with the metlife brand in regions where we did not have a market presence prior to the acquisition. 56 table of contents if the acquired business relies upon independent distributors to distribute its products, these distributors may not continue to generate the same volume of business for us after the acquisition. independent distributors may reexamine the scope of their relationship with the acquired business or us as a result of the acquisition and decide to curtail or eliminate distribution of our products. integrating acquired operations with our existing operations may require us to coordinate geographically separated organizations, address possible differences in corporate culture and management philosophies, merge financial processes and risk and compliance procedures, combine separate information technology platforms and integrate operations that were previously closely tied to the former parent of the acquired business or other service providers. in cases where we or an acquired business operates in certain markets through joint ventures, the acquisition may affect the continued success and prospects of the joint venture. our ability to exercise management control or influence over these joint venture operations and our investment in them will depend on the continued cooperation between the joint venture participants and on the terms of the joint venture agreements, which allocate control among the joint venture participants. we may face financial or other exposure in the event that any of these joint venture partners fail to meet their obligations under the joint venture, encounter financial difficulty or elect to alter, modify or terminate the relationship. we may incur significant costs in connection with any acquisition and the related integration. the costs and liabilities actually incurred in connection with an acquisition and subsequent integration process may exceed those anticipated. the prospects of our business also may be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to manage the growth of any acquired business successfully. for example, the life insurance markets in many of the international markets we entered through the alico acquisition have experienced significant growth in recent years. management of growth in these markets to date has required significant management and operational resources and is likely to continue to do so. future growth of our combined business will require, among other things, the continued development of adequate underwriting and claim handling capabilities and skills, sufficient capital base, increased marketing and sales activities, and the hiring and training of new personnel. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in managing future growth of any acquired business. in particular, there may be difficulties in hiring and training sufficient numbers of customer service personnel and agents to keep pace with any future growth in the number of customers in our developing or developed markets. in addition, we may experience difficulties in upgrading, developing and expanding information technology systems quickly enough to accommodate any future growth. if we are unable to manage future growth, our prospects may be materially and adversely affected. the closing agreement american life entered into with the irs may not achieve its intended effect and american life may not be able to comply with the related agreed upon plan on november 1, 2010, we acquired all of the outstanding stock of american life from aig. prior to this acquisition, in march 2010, american life entered into a closing agreement (the closing agreement ) with the commissioner of the irs to resolve a u.s. withholding tax issue arising from payments by its foreign branches. irs revenue ruling 2004-75 requires foreign branches of u.s. life insurance companies in certain circumstances to withhold u.s. income taxes on payments, made with respect to certain insurance and annuity products, to customers resident in a foreign country. the closing agreement provides that american life foreign branches, now part of metlife, will not be required to withhold u.s. income tax on the income portion of payments made pursuant to american life life insurance and annuity contracts ( covered payments ) for any tax periods beginning on or after january 1, 2005 and ending on or before december 31, 2013 (the deferral period ). in accordance with the closing agreement, american life has submitted a plan (and quarterly updates) to the irs indicating the steps american life will take (on a country by country basis) to ensure that no substantial 57 table of contents amount of u.s. withholding tax will arise from covered payments made by american life foreign branches to foreign customers after the deferral period. the plan american life delivered to the irs involves (i) selling some of its branch businesses and (ii) transferring businesses from certain other of its foreign branches to one or more existing or newly-formed foreign affiliates of american life. the achievement of the plan presented to the irs within the required time frame of december 31, 2013 is contingent upon regulatory approvals and other requirements. failure to achieve the plan (or an extension) in a timely manner could cause american life to be required to withhold u.s. income taxes on the taxable portion of payments with respect to certain insurance and annuity products made by american life foreign branches after december 31, 2013 to customers resident in a foreign country. this could put american life at a competitive disadvantage with its competitors that sell similar products through foreign entities and could have a material adverse effect on american life future revenues or expenses or both. see note 3 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. the settlement of our outstanding common equity units will have a dilutive impact on metlife, inc. stockholders as part of the consideration paid for the alico acquisition, metlife, inc. issued $3.0 billion aggregate stated amount of common equity units, which initially consist of (x) purchase contracts obligating the holder to purchase a variable number of shares of metlife, inc. common stock on each of three specified future settlement dates (the first settlement date was october 10, 2012 and the other two are expected to occur on september 11, 2013 and october 8, 2014, subject to deferral under certain circumstances) for a fixed amount per purchase contract (an aggregate of $1.0 billion on each settlement date) (the stock purchase contracts ) and (y) an interest in each of three series of debt securities of metlife, inc. on the first settlement date, metlife issued 28,231,956 million shares. after settlement of the remaining purchase contracts, metlife, inc. will receive proceeds of $2 billion and issue between 45.2 million and 56.5 million shares of its common stock, subject to certain adjustments, in addition to the proceeds received and shares issued on the first settlement date in october 2012. as a result, more shares of common stock will be outstanding and each existing stockholder will own a smaller percentage of our common stock then outstanding. see note 15 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. capital-related risks we have been, and may continue to be, prevented from repurchasing our stock and paying dividends at the level we wish as a result of regulatory restrictions and restrictions under the terms of certain of our securities the declaration and payment of dividends is subject to the discretion of our board of directors, and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements, future prospects, regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends and our other insurance subsidiaries and other factors deemed relevant by the board. there is no requirement or assurance that we will declare and pay any dividends. in addition, payment of dividends on our common stock and our ability to repurchase our common stock have been subject to restrictions arising from our regulation as a bank holding company and may again be subject to restrictions arising from federal reserve regulation if we are designated a non-bank sifi. in addition, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock and repurchase our common stock is subject to restrictions arising from the terms of our preferred stock, junior subordinated debentures and trust securities, so called dividend stopper provisions, in situations where we may be experiencing financial stress. for purposes of this discussion, junior subordinated debentures are deemed to include metlife, inc. fixed-to-floating exchangeable surplus trust securities, which are exchangeable for junior subordinated debentures, and which contain terms with the same substantive effects in this discussion as the terms of metlife junior subordinated debentures. in addition, our ability to pay dividends on our preferred stock and interest on our junior subordinated debentures are also restricted by the terms of those securities. 58 table of contents regulatory restrictions. the federal reserve has proposed enhanced prudential standards, including heightened capital requirements and stress testing requirements, for non-bank sifis. it is possible that these requirements, or any others adopted, could restrict our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our common stock if we were designated a non-bank sifi. in addition, metlife, inc. may not be able to pay dividends if it does not receive sufficient funds from its operating subsidiaries, which are themselves subject to separate regulatory restrictions on their ability to pay dividends. see as a holding company, metlife, inc. depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to transfer funds to meet its obligations and pay dividends. dividend stopper provisions in our preferred stock and junior subordinated debentures . certain terms of our preferred stock and our junior subordinated debentures may prevent us from purchasing our common stock or paying dividends on our common stock in certain circumstances. moreover, metlife, inc. is a party to certain replacement capital covenants which limit its ability to eliminate these restrictions through the repayment, redemption or purchase of preferred stock or junior subordinated debentures by requiring metlife, subject to certain limitations, to receive cash proceeds during a specified period from the sale of specified replacement securities prior to any repayment, redemption or purchase. see note 14 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for a description of such covenants in effect with respect to junior subordinated debentures and note 16 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for a description of such restrictions with respect to the preferred stock. under our preferred stock and junior subordinated debentures, if we have not paid the full dividends on our preferred stock for a dividend period, we may not repurchase or pay dividends on our common stock for that period. if we have not paid in full the accrued interest through the most recent interest payment date on our junior subordinated debentures, we may not repurchase or pay dividends on our common stock or other capital stock (including the preferred stock), subject to certain exceptions. trigger events for the restrictions on the payment of dividends on our preferred stock and restrictions on the payment of interest on our junior subordinated debentures . in addition, the preferred stock and the junior subordinated debentures contain provisions that would automatically suspend the payment of preferred stock dividends and junior subordinated debenture interest payments if metlife, inc. fails to meet certain tests ( trigger events ) at specified times, although in such cases metlife would be permitted to make the payments if it were able to utilize the alternative payment mechanism described below. as a result of the suspension of these payments, the dividend stopper provisions would come into effect. a trigger event would occur if the risk-based capital ratio of metlife largest u.s. insurance subsidiaries in the aggregate (as defined in the applicable instrument) were to be less than 175% of the company action level based on the subsidiaries prior year annual financial statements filed (generally around march 1) with state insurance commissioners. a trigger event would also occur if, at the end of a quarter, consolidated gaap net income for the four-quarter period ending two quarters before such quarter-end is zero or less and adjusted shareholders equity (as defined in the applicable instrument), as of such quarter-end and the end of the quarter two quarters before such quarter-end, declined by 10% or more from its level 10 quarters before such quarter-end. the trigger event would continue until there is no longer a trigger event at the specified time, and adjusted shareholders equity is no longer 10% or more below its level at the beginning of each measurement period described above that is associated with a trigger event. in order to use the alternative payment mechanism referred to above to declare and pay preferred stock dividends or interest on junior subordinated debentures, metlife must sell common stock during the 90 days preceding the dividend declaration date or sell common stock or certain kinds of warrants to purchase common stock during the 180 days prior to the interest payment date, make dividend or interest payments not in excess of the net proceeds of these sales, and satisfy other specified conditions. dividends on our preferred stock are subject to declaration by our board of directors. in addition to the provisions described above that prevent us from declaring and paying dividends on our preferred stock, dividends on our preferred stock are subject to declaration each quarter by our board of directors. if our board of directors 59 table of contents does not declare dividends on the preferred stock for any quarterly dividend period, the dividend stopper provisions in our preferred stock would prevent us from repurchasing or paying dividends on our common stock for that period. optional deferral of interest on the junior subordinated debentures. the junior subordinated debentures provide that metlife may, at its option and provided that certain conditions are met, defer payment of interest without giving rise to an event of default for periods of up to 10 years (although after five years metlife, inc. would be obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to sell equity securities to raise proceeds to pay the interest), with no limitation on the number of deferral periods that metlife, inc. may begin so long as all accrued and unpaid interest is paid with respect to prior deferral periods. if metlife, inc. were to elect to defer payments of interest, the dividend stopper provisions in the junior subordinated debentures would thus prevent metlife, inc. from repurchasing or paying dividends on its common stock or other capital stock (including the preferred stock) during the period of deferral, subject to exceptions. see note 16 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information about these restrictions. as a holding company, metlife, inc. depends on the ability of its subsidiaries to transfer funds to it to meet its obligations and pay dividends metlife, inc. is a holding company for its insurance and financial subsidiaries and does not have any significant operations of its own. dividends from its subsidiaries and permitted payments to it under its tax sharing arrangements with its subsidiaries are its principal sources of cash to meet its obligations and to pay preferred and common stock dividends. if the cash metlife, inc. receives from its subsidiaries is insufficient for it to fund its debt service and other holding company obligations, metlife, inc. may be required to raise cash through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of additional equity or the sale of assets. the payment of dividends and other distributions to metlife, inc. by its u.s. insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. in general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits require insurance regulatory approval. in addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of dividends or other payments by its insurance subsidiaries to metlife, inc. if they determine that the payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. the payment of dividends and other distributions by insurance companies is also influenced by business conditions and rating agency considerations. see business u.s. regulation insurance regulation and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources metlife, inc. liquidity and capital sources dividends from subsidiaries. the ability of metlife bank to pay dividends is also subject to regulation by the occ. see also regulatory and legal risks our insurance and brokerage businesses are highly regulated, and changes in regulation and in supervisory and enforcement policies may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. any payment of interest, dividends, distributions, loans or advances by our foreign subsidiaries and branches to metlife, inc. could be subject to taxation or other restrictions on dividends or repatriation of earnings under applicable law, monetary transfer restrictions and foreign currency exchange regulations in the jurisdiction in which such foreign subsidiaries operate. see business international regulation and risks related to our business our international operations face political, legal, operational and other risks, including exposure to local and regional economic conditions, that could negatively affect those operations or our profitability. 60 table of contents general risks metlife, inc. board of directors may control the outcome of stockholder votes on many matters due to the voting provisions of the metlife policyholder trust under the plan, we established the metlife policyholder trust to hold the shares of metlife, inc. common stock allocated to eligible policyholders not receiving cash or policy credits under the plan. as of february 19, 2013, the trust held 201,024,039 shares, or 18.4%, of the outstanding shares of metlife, inc. common stock. because of voting provisions of the trust and the number of shares held by it, the trust may affect the outcome of matters brought to a stockholder vote. except on votes regarding certain fundamental corporate actions described below, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held in the trust in accordance with the recommendations given by metlife, inc. board of directors to its stockholders or, if the board gives no such recommendations, as directed by the board. as a result of the voting provisions of the trust, the board of directors may be able to control votes on matters submitted to a vote of stockholders, excluding certain fundamental corporate actions, so long as the trust holds a substantial number of shares of common stock. if the vote relates to fundamental corporate actions specified in the trust, the trustee will solicit instructions from the trust beneficiaries and vote all shares held in the trust in proportion to the instructions it receives. these actions include: an election or removal of directors in which a stockholder has properly nominated one or more candidates in opposition to a nominee or nominees of metlife, inc. board of directors or a vote on a stockholder proposal to oppose a board nominee for director, remove a director for cause or fill a vacancy caused by the removal of a director by stockholders, subject to certain conditions; a merger or consolidation, a sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the assets, or a recapitalization or dissolution, of metlife, inc., in each case requiring a vote of stockholders under applicable delaware law; any transaction that would result in an exchange or conversion of shares of common stock held by the trust for cash, securities or other property; and any proposal requiring metlife, inc. board of directors to amend or redeem the rights under metlife, inc. stockholder rights plan, other than a proposal with respect to which we have received advice of nationally-recognized legal counsel to the effect that the proposal is not a proper subject for stockholder action under delaware law. metlife, inc. does not currently have a stockholder rights plan. if a vote concerns any of these fundamental corporate actions, the trustee will vote all of the shares of common stock held by the trust in proportion to the instructions it received, which will give disproportionate weight to the instructions actually given by trust beneficiaries. the metlife policyholder trust agreement provides that we may terminate the trust once the percentage of outstanding shares held in the trust falls to 25%. the winding up of the trust must commence 90 days after we provide the trustee with notice that the percentage of outstanding shares held in the trust is 10% or less. in connection with any termination of the trust, all of the shares of common stock then held in the trust will need to be distributed to the respective trust beneficiaries, unless we offer to purchase all or a portion of such trust shares. in connection with such a distribution, we may incur costs related to an increase in the number of shareholders, which may include increased mailing and proxy solicitation expenses. changes in accounting standards issued by the financial accounting standards board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements our financial statements are subject to the application of gaap, which is periodically revised and/or expanded. accordingly, from time to time we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized 61 table of contents authoritative bodies, including the financial accounting standards board. for instance, we recently adopted new guidance regarding accounting for dac, which resulted in a reduction of dac and total equity. the impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in our reports filed with the sec. see note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. an assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such proposals are subject to change through the exposure process and, therefore, the effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. the required adoption of future accounting standards could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, including on our net income. changes in our assumptions regarding the discount rate, expected rate of return and expected increase in compensation used for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability we determine our pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs based on our best estimates of future plan experience. these assumptions are reviewed regularly and include discount rates, expected rates of return on plan assets, expected increases in compensation levels and expected medical inflation. changes in these assumptions may result in increased expenses and reduce our profitability. see note 18 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for details on how changes in these assumptions would affect plan costs. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property and may be subject to infringement claims we rely on a combination of contractual rights with third parties and copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws to establish and protect our intellectual property. although we endeavor to protect our rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property. we may have to litigate to enforce and protect our copyrights, trademarks, patents, trade secrets and know-how or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. this would represent a diversion of resources that may be significant and our efforts may not prove successful. the inability to secure or protect our intellectual property assets could have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to compete with other insurers and financial institutions. in addition, we may be subject to claims by third parties for (i) patent, trademark or copyright infringement, (ii) breach of patent, trademark or copyright license usage rights, or (iii) misappropriation of trade secrets. any such claims or resulting litigation could result in significant expense and liability for damages. if we were found to have infringed or misappropriated a third-party patent or other intellectual property right, we could in some circumstances be enjoined from providing certain products or services to our customers or from utilizing and benefiting from certain patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or licenses. alternatively, we could be required to enter into costly licensing arrangements with third parties or implement a costly alternative. any of these scenarios could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may be unable to attract and retain sales representatives for our products we must attract and retain productive sales representatives to sell our insurance, annuities and investment products. insurers compete for sales representatives with demonstrated ability. in addition, there is competition for representatives with other types of financial services firms, such as independent broker-dealers. we compete with other insurers for sales representatives primarily on the basis of our financial position, support services and compensation and product features. we continue to undertake several initiatives to enhance the efficiency and production of our existing sales force. these initiatives may not succeed in attracting and retaining new agents. sales of individual insurance, annuities and investment products and our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining highly qualified and productive agents. see business competition. 62 table of contents state laws, federal laws, our certificate of incorporation and our by-laws may delay, deter or prevent takeovers and business combinations that stockholders might consider in their best interests state laws, federal laws and our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests. for instance, such restrictions may prevent stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of metlife, inc. common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of metlife, inc. common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. any person seeking to acquire a controlling interest in us would face various regulatory obstacles, including: applicable state insurance laws and regulations may delay or impede a business combination involving us by prohibiting an entity from acquiring control (generally presumed to exist at direct or indirect ownership of 10% or more of voting stock) of an insurance company without the prior approval of the domestic insurance regulator. dodd-frank provisions that could restrict or impede consolidations, mergers and acquisitions by systemically significant firms, which could apply to us if we are designated as a non-bank sifi. see business u.s. regulation potential regulation as a non-bank sifi change of control and restrictions on mergers and acquisitions. provisions of the investment company act of 1940, as amended, that require approval by the contract owners of our variable contracts in order to effectuate a change of control of any affiliated investment adviser to a mutual fund underlying our variable contracts. finra approval requirements for a change of control of any finra registered broker-dealer that is a direct or indirect subsidiary of metlife, inc. provisions of the delaware general corporation law may affect the ability of an interested stockholder (the owner of 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of a corporation) to engage in certain business combinations for a period of three years following the time that the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. in addition, metlife, inc. certificate of incorporation and by-laws also contain provisions that may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that stockholders might consider in their best interests or may otherwise adversely affect prevailing market prices for metlife, inc. common stock. these provisions include: a prohibition on the calling of special meetings by stockholders; advance notice procedures for the nomination of candidates to the board of directors and stockholder proposals to be considered at stockholder meetings; and supermajority voting requirements for the amendment of certain provisions of the certificate of incorporation and by-laws. the continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may adversely affect the value of our investment portfolio and the level of claim losses we incur the continued threat of terrorism, both within the u.s. and abroad, ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats may cause significant volatility in global financial markets and result in loss of life, property damage, additional disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. the value of assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by declines in the credit and equity markets and reduced economic activity caused by the continued threat of terrorism. companies in which we maintain investments may suffer losses as a result of financial, commercial or economic disruptions and such disruptions might affect the ability of those companies to pay interest or principal on their securities or mortgage loans. terrorist actions also could disrupt our operations centers in the u.s. or abroad and higher than anticipated 63 table of contents claims under our insurance policies. see economic environment and capital markets-related risks if difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally persist, they may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. the failure in cyber- or other information security systems, as well as the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning could result in a loss or disclosure of confidential information, damage to our reputation and impairment of our ability to conduct business effectively our business is highly dependent upon the effective operation of our computer systems. we rely on these systems throughout our business for a variety of functions, including processing claims and applications, providing information to customers and distributors, performing actuarial analyses and maintaining financial records. we also retain confidential and proprietary information on our computer systems and we rely on sophisticated technologies to maintain the security of that information. our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access, cyber-attacks or other computer-related penetrations. while, to date, metlife has not experienced a material breach of cybersecurity, administrative and technical controls and other preventive actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber-incidents and protect our information technology may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems. in the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, epidemic, industrial accident, blackout, computer virus, terrorist attack, cyberattack or war, unanticipated problems with our disaster recovery systems could have a material adverse impact on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial position, particularly if those problems affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage and retrieval systems and destroy valuable data. in addition, in the event that a significant number of our managers were unavailable following a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct business could be severely compromised. these interruptions also may interfere with our suppliers ability to provide goods and services and our employees ability to perform their job responsibilities. the failure of our computer systems and/or our disaster recovery plans for any reason could cause significant interruptions in our operations and result in a failure to maintain the security, confidentiality or privacy of sensitive data, including personal information relating to our customers. such a failure could harm our reputation, subject us to regulatory sanctions and legal claims, lead to a loss of customers and revenues and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. while we maintain cyber liability insurance that provides both third-party liability and first party liability coverages, our insurance may not be sufficient to protect us against all losses. our associates may take excessive risks which could negatively affect our financial condition and business as an insurance enterprise, we are in the business of accepting certain risks. the associates who conduct our business, including executive officers and other members of management, sales managers, investment professionals, product managers, sales agents, and other associates, do so in part by making decisions and choices that involve exposing us to risk. these include decisions such as setting underwriting guidelines and standards, product design and pricing, determining what assets to purchase for investment and when to sell them, which business opportunities to pursue, and other decisions. we endeavor, in the design and implementation of our compensation programs and practices, to avoid giving our associates incentives to take excessive risks; however, associates may take such risks regardless of the structure of our compensation programs and practices. similarly, although we employ controls and procedures designed to monitor associates business decisions and prevent us from taking excessive risks, these controls and procedures may not be effective. if our associates take excessive risks, the impact of those risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and business operations. 64 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 176 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk risk management we actively manage, measure and monitor the market risk associated with our assets and liabilities. we have developed an integrated process for managing risk, which we conduct through our global risk management department, asset/liability management unit, treasury department and investments department along with the management of our business segments. we have established and implemented comprehensive policies and procedures at both the corporate and business segment level to minimize the effects of potential market volatility. we regularly analyze our exposure to interest rate, equity market price and foreign currency exchange rate risks. as a result of that analysis, we have determined that the estimated fair values of certain assets and liabilities are materially exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and changes in the equity markets. global risk management. we have established several financial and non-financial senior management committees as part of our risk management process. these committees manage capital and risk positions, approve alm strategies and establish appropriate corporate business standards. further enhancing its committee structure, during 2010, we created an enterprise risk committee. the enterprise risk committee is comprised of members of senior management, including metlife, inc. chief financial officer, chief risk officer and chief investment officer. this committee is responsible for reviewing all material risks to the enterprise and deciding on actions if necessary, in the event risks exceed desirable targets, taking into consideration best practices and the current environment to resolve or mitigate those risks. we also have a separate global risk management department, which is responsible for risk management throughout metlife and reports to metlife chief risk officer, who reports to metlife chief executive officer. the global risk management department primary responsibilities consist of: implementing a corporate risk framework, which outlines our approach for managing risk on an enterprise-wide basis; developing policies and procedures for managing, measuring, monitoring and controlling those risks identified in the corporate risk framework; establishing appropriate corporate risk tolerance levels; deploying capital on an economic capital basis; and reporting on a periodic basis to the finance and risk committee of the company board of directors; with respect to credit risk, reporting to the investment committee of the company board of directors; and reporting on various aspects of risk to financial and non-financial senior management committees. asset/liability management. we actively manage our assets using an approach that balances quality, diversification, asset/liability matching, liquidity, concentration and investment return. the goals of the investment process are to optimize, net of income tax, risk-adjusted investment income and risk-adjusted total return while ensuring that the assets and liabilities are reasonably managed on a cash flow and duration basis. the alm process is the shared responsibility of the alm unit, global risk management, the portfolio management unit, and the senior members of the business segments and is governed by the alm committees. the alm committees duties include reviewing and approving target portfolios, establishing investment guidelines and limits and providing oversight of the alm process on a periodic basis. the directives of the alm committees are carried out and monitored through alm working groups which are set up to manage by product type. in addition, an alm steering committee oversees the activities of the underlying alm committees. 176 table of contents we establish target asset portfolios for each major insurance product, which represent the investment strategies used to profitably fund our liabilities within acceptable levels of risk. these strategies are monitored through regular review of portfolio metrics, such as effective duration, yield curve sensitivity, convexity, liquidity, asset sector concentration and credit quality by the alm working groups. market risk exposures we have exposure to market risk through our insurance operations and investment activities. for purposes of this disclosure, market risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity markets. interest rates. our exposure to interest rate changes results most significantly from our holdings of fixed maturity securities, as well as our interest rate sensitive liabilities. the fixed maturity securities include u.s. and foreign government bonds, securities issued by government agencies, corporate bonds, mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, all of which are mainly exposed to changes in medium- and long-term interest rates. the interest rate sensitive liabilities for purposes of this disclosure include debt, pabs related to certain investment type contracts, and net embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits which have the same type of interest rate exposure (medium- and long-term interest rates) as fixed maturity securities. we employ product design, pricing and alm strategies to reduce the potential effects of interest rate movements. product design and pricing strategies include the use of surrender charges or restrictions on withdrawals in some products and the ability to reset crediting rates for certain products. alm strategies include the use of derivatives and duration mismatch limits. see risk factors economic environment and capital markets-related risks we are exposed to significant financial and capital markets risk which may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and may cause our net investment income to vary from period to period. foreign currency exchange rates. our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the u.s. dollar results from our holdings in non-u.s. dollar denominated fixed maturity and equity securities, mortgage loans, and certain liabilities, as well as through our investments in foreign subsidiaries. the principal currencies that create foreign currency exchange rate risk in our investment portfolios and liabilities are the euro, the japanese yen and the british pound. selectively, we use u.s. dollar assets to support certain long duration foreign currency liabilities. through our investments in foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures, we are primarily exposed to the japanese yen, the british pound, the australian dollar, the mexican peso and the korean won. in addition to hedging with foreign currency swaps, forwards and options, local surplus in some countries is held entirely or in part in u.s. dollar assets which further minimizes exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. we have matched much of our foreign currency liabilities in our foreign subsidiaries with their respective foreign currency assets, thereby reducing our risk to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation. see risk factors risks related to our business fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively affect our profitability. equity market. we have exposure to equity market risk through certain liabilities that involve long-term guarantees on equity performance such as net embedded derivatives on variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefits, certain pabs, along with investments in equity securities. we manage this risk on an integrated basis with other risks through our alm strategies including the dynamic hedging of certain variable annuity guarantee benefits. we also manage equity market risk exposure in our investment portfolio through the use of derivatives. equity exposures associated with other limited partnership interests are excluded from this section as they are not considered financial instruments under gaap. management of market risk exposures we use a variety of strategies to manage interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market risk, including the use of derivatives. 177 table of contents interest rate risk management. to manage interest rate risk, we analyze interest rate risk using various models, including multi-scenario cash flow projection models that forecast cash flows of the liabilities and their supporting investments, including derivatives. these projections involve evaluating the potential gain or loss on most of our in-force business under various increasing and decreasing interest rate environments. the department of financial services regulations require that we perform some of these analyses annually as part of our review of the sufficiency of our regulatory reserves. for several of our legal entities, we maintain segmented operating and surplus asset portfolios for the purpose of alm and the allocation of investment income to product lines. for each segment, invested assets greater than or equal to the gaap liabilities and any non-invested assets allocated to the segment are maintained, with any excess swept to corporate &amp; other. the business segments may reflect differences in legal entity, statutory line of business and any product market characteristic which may drive a distinct investment strategy with respect to duration, liquidity or credit quality of the invested assets. certain smaller entities make use of unsegmented general accounts for which the investment strategy reflects the aggregate characteristics of liabilities in those entities. we measure relative sensitivities of the value of our assets and liabilities to changes in key assumptions utilizing internal models. these models reflect specific product characteristics and include assumptions based on current and anticipated experience regarding lapse, mortality and interest crediting rates. in addition, these models include asset cash flow projections reflecting interest payments, sinking fund payments, principal payments, bond calls, mortgage loan prepayments and defaults. common industry metrics, such as duration and convexity, are also used to measure the relative sensitivity of assets and liability values to changes in interest rates. in computing the duration of liabilities, consideration is given to all policyholder guarantees and to how we intend to set indeterminate policy elements such as interest credits or dividends. each asset portfolio has a duration target based on the liability duration and the investment objectives of that portfolio. where a liability cash flow may exceed the maturity of available assets, as is the case with certain retirement and group products, we may support such liabilities with equity investments, derivatives or interest rate curve mismatch strategies. foreign currency exchange rate risk management. foreign currency exchange rate risk is assumed primarily in three ways: investments in foreign subsidiaries, purchases of foreign currency denominated investments and the sale of certain insurance products. the foreign exchange committee, in coordination with the treasury department, is responsible for managing the exposure to investments in foreign subsidiaries. limits to exposures are established and monitored by the treasury department and managed by the investments department. the investments department is responsible for managing the exposure to foreign currency denominated investments. exposure limits to unhedged foreign currency investments are incorporated into the standing authorizations granted to management by the board of directors and are reported to the board of directors on a periodic basis. management of each of the company segments is responsible for establishing limits and managing any foreign currency exchange rate exposure caused by the sale or issuance of insurance products. we use foreign currency swaps, forwards and options to mitigate the liability exposure, risk of loss and the volatility of net income associated with its investments in foreign subsidiaries, foreign currency denominated fixed income investments and the sale of certain insurance products. equity market risk management. equity market risk exposure through the issuance of variable annuities is managed by our asset/liability management unit in partnership with the investments department. equity market risk is realized through its investment in equity securities and is managed by our investments department. we use derivatives to mitigate our equity exposure both in certain liability guarantees such as variable annuities with guaranteed minimum benefit and equity securities. these derivatives include exchange-traded equity futures, equity index options contracts and equity variance swaps. we also employ reinsurance to manage these exposures. 178 table of contents hedging activities. we use derivative contracts primarily to hedge a wide range of risks including interest rate risk, foreign currency exchange rate risk, and equity market risk. derivative hedges are designed to reduce risk on an economic basis while considering their impact on accounting results and gaap and statutory capital. the construction of our derivative hedge programs vary depending on the type of risk being hedged. some hedge programs are asset or liability specific while others are portfolio hedges that reduce risk related to a group of liabilities or assets. our use of derivatives by major hedge programs is as follows: risks related to living guarantee benefits we use a wide range of derivative contracts to hedge the risk associated with variable annuity living guarantee benefits. these hedges include equity and interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, currency futures/forwards, equity indexed options and interest rate option contracts and equity variance swaps. minimum interest rate guarantees for certain liability contracts, we provide the contractholder a guaranteed minimum interest rate. these contracts include certain fixed annuities and other insurance liabilities. we purchase interest rate floors to reduce risk associated with these liability guarantees. reinvestment risk in long duration liability contracts derivatives are used to hedge interest rate risk related to certain long duration liability contracts, such as deferred annuities. hedges include zero coupon interest rate swaps and swaptions. foreign currency exchange rate risk we use currency swaps, forwards and options to hedge foreign currency exchange rate risk. these hedges primarily swap foreign currency denominated bonds, investments in foreign subsidiaries or equity market exposures to u.s. dollars. general alm hedging strategies in the ordinary course of managing our asset/liability risks, we use interest rate futures, interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, interest rate floors and inflation swaps. these hedges are designed to reduce interest rate risk or inflation risk related to the existing assets or liabilities or related to expected future cash flows. risk measurement: sensitivity analysis we measure market risk related to our market sensitive assets and liabilities based on changes in interest rates, equity market prices and foreign currency exchange rates utilizing a sensitivity analysis. this analysis estimates the potential changes in estimated fair value based on a hypothetical 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates, equity market prices and foreign currency exchange rates. we believe that a 10% change (increase or decrease) in these market rates and prices is reasonably possible in the near-term. in performing the analysis summarized below, we use market rates at december 31, 2012. the sensitivity analysis separately calculates each of our market risk exposures (interest rate, equity market and foreign currency exchange rate) relating to our trading and non-trading assets and liabilities. we modeled the impact of changes in market rates and prices on the estimated fair values of our market sensitive assets and liabilities as follows: the net present values of its interest rate sensitive exposures resulting from a 10% change (increase or decrease) in interest rates; the u.s. dollar equivalent estimated fair values of our foreign currency exposures due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in foreign currency exchange rates; and the estimated fair value of its equity positions due to a 10% change (increase or decrease) in equity market prices. 179 table of contents the sensitivity analysis is an estimate and should not be viewed as predictive of our future financial performance. we cannot ensure that our actual losses in any particular period will not exceed the amounts indicated in the table below. limitations related to this sensitivity analysis include: the market risk information is limited by the assumptions and parameters established in creating the related sensitivity analysis, including the impact of prepayment rates on mortgage loans; for the derivatives that qualify as hedges, the impact on reported earnings may be materially different from the change in market values; the analysis excludes liabilities pursuant to insurance contracts and real estate holdings; and the model assumes that the composition of assets and liabilities remains unchanged throughout the period. accordingly, we use such models as tools and not as substitutes for the experience and judgment of our management. based on our analysis of the impact of a 10% change (increase or decrease) in market rates and prices, we have determined that such a change could have a material adverse effect on the estimated fair value of certain assets and liabilities from interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market exposures. the table below illustrates the potential loss in estimated fair value for each market risk exposure of our market sensitive assets and liabilities at december 31, 2012: december 31, 2012 (in millions) non-trading: interest rate risk $ 5,996 foreign currency exchange rate risk $ 6,553 equity market risk $ 319 trading: interest rate risk $ 5 foreign currency exchange rate risk $ 19 180 table of contents sensitivity analysis: interest rates. the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our trading and non-trading interest sensitive financial instruments at december 31, 2012 by type of asset or liability: december 31, 2012 notional amount estimated fair value (1) assuming a 10% increase in the yield curve (in millions) assets: fixed maturity securities $ 374,266 $ (5,110 ) equity securities $ 2,891 fair value option and trading securities $ 883 (5 ) mortgage loans: held-for-investment $ 57,381 (220 ) held-for-sale 414 mortgage loans, net $ 57,795 (220 ) policy loans $ 14,257 (112 ) short-term investments $ 16,906 (1 ) other invested assets $ 1,241 cash and cash equivalents $ 15,738 accrued investment income $ 4,374 premiums, reinsurance and other receivables $ 3,705 (236 ) other assets $ 292 (6 ) net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) $ 506 (22 ) total assets $ (5,712 ) liabilities: (3) policyholder account balances $ 150,497 $ 477 payables for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions $ 33,687 bank deposits $ 6,416 short-term debt $ 100 long-term debt $ 18,978 225 collateral financing arrangements $ 3,839 junior subordinated debt securities $ 3,984 94 other liabilities: trading liabilities $ 163 3 other $ 1,916 net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) $ 3,684 518 total liabilities $ 1,317 commitments: mortgage loan commitments $ 2,969 $ 12 (20 ) commitments to fund bank credit facilities, bridge loans and private corporate bond investments $ 1,243 $ 22 total commitments $ (20 ) derivative instruments: interest rate swaps $ 92,289 $ 5,694 $ (1,120 ) interest rate floors $ 56,246 $ 337 (29 ) interest rate caps $ 49,465 $ 74 17 interest rate futures $ 11,684 $ (37 ) (92 ) interest rate options $ 16,328 $ 580 (206 ) interest rate forwards $ 675 $ 139 (44 ) synthetic gics $ 4,162 $ foreign currency swaps $ 20,433 $ (426 ) (9 ) foreign currency forwards $ 11,754 $ (280 ) currency futures $ 1,408 $ 4 currency options $ 4,504 $ 41 (2 ) credit default swaps $ 12,553 $ 51 equity futures $ 7,008 $ (118 ) equity options $ 22,920 $ 2,469 (101 ) variance swaps $ 19,830 $ (188 ) total rate of return swaps $ 3,092 $ (99 ) total derivative instruments $ (1,586 ) net change $ (6,001 ) 181 table of contents (1) separate account assets and liabilities and contractholder-directed unit-linked investments and associated pabs, which are interest rate sensitive, are not included herein as any interest rate risk is borne by the contractholder. mortgage loans and long-term debt exclude $2.7 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, related to cses. see note 8 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding cses. (2) embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. (3) excludes $207.8 billion of liabilities at carrying value pursuant to insurance contracts reported within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances. these liabilities would economically offset a significant portion of the net change in fair value of our financial instruments resulting from a 10% increase in the yield curve. interest rate risk has increased by $1.7 billion, or 40%, to $6.0 billion at december 31, 2012 from $4.3 billion at december 31, 2011. the increase in risk is primarily driven by increases in net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts of $1.2 billion, the net asset and liability bases of $311 million, the overall yield impact of $102 million and the impact of derivatives of $57 million. 182 table of contents sensitivity analysis: foreign currency exchange rates . the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our portfolio due to a 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates at december 31, 2012 by type of asset or liability: december 31, 2012 notional amount estimated fair value (1) assuming a 10% increase in the foreign exchange rate (in millions) assets: fixed maturity securities $ 374,266 $ (8,654 ) equity securities $ 2,891 (156 ) fair value option and trading securities $ 883 (19 ) mortgage loans: held-for-investment $ 57,381 (535 ) held-for-sale 414 mortgage loans, net $ 57,795 (535 ) policy loans $ 14,257 (203 ) short-term investments $ 16,906 (195 ) other invested assets $ 1,241 (152 ) cash and cash equivalents $ 15,738 (392 ) accrued investment income $ 4,374 (43 ) premiums, reinsurance and other receivables $ 3,705 (36 ) other assets $ 292 (7 ) total assets $ (10,392 ) liabilities: (2) policyholder account balances $ 150,497 $ 2,761 payable for collateral under securities loaned and other transactions $ 33,687 47 bank deposits $ 6,416 long-term debt $ 18,978 137 other liabilities $ 1,916 4 net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (3) $ 3,684 258 total liabilities $ 3,207 derivative instruments: interest rate swaps $ 92,289 $ 5,694 $ (35 ) interest rate floors $ 56,246 $ 337 interest rate caps $ 49,465 $ 74 interest rate futures $ 11,684 $ (37 ) interest rate options $ 16,328 $ 580 (1 ) interest rate forwards $ 675 $ 139 synthetic gics $ 4,162 $ foreign currency swaps $ 20,433 $ (426 ) 697 foreign currency forwards $ 11,754 $ (280 ) 31 currency futures $ 1,408 $ 4 (115 ) currency options $ 4,504 $ 41 142 credit default swaps $ 12,553 $ 51 equity futures $ 7,008 $ (118 ) 10 equity options $ 22,920 $ 2,469 (116 ) variance swaps $ 19,830 $ (188 ) total rate of return swaps $ 3,092 $ (99 ) total derivative instruments $ 613 net change $ (6,572 ) 183 table of contents (1) does not necessarily represent those financial instruments solely subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk. separate account assets and liabilities and contractholder-directed unit-linked investments and associated pabs, which are foreign currency exchange rate sensitive, are not included herein as any foreign currency exchange rate risk is borne by the contractholder. mortgage loans and long-term debt exclude $2.7 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, related to cses. see note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for information regarding cses. (2) excludes $207.8 billion of liabilities at carrying value pursuant to insurance contracts reported within future policy benefits and other policy-related balances. these liabilities would economically offset a significant portion of the net change in fair value of our financial instruments resulting from a 10% increase in the foreign currency exchange rates. (3) embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. foreign currency exchange rate risk increased by $1.6 billion, to $6.6 billion at december 31, 2012 from $5.0 billion at december 31, 2011. this change was due to an increase in exchange rate risk relating to fixed maturity securities and equity securities (including fvo and trading securities), mortgage loans, cash and cash equivalents, other invested assets, net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts and pabs. our exposure increased primarily due to the australian dollar and the japanese yen. 184 table of contents sensitivity analysis: equity market prices. the table below provides additional detail regarding the potential loss in estimated fair value of our portfolio due to a 10% change in equity at december 31, 2012 by type of asset or liability: december 31, 2012 notional amount estimated fair value (1) assuming a 10% increase in equity prices (in millions) assets: equity securities $ 2,891 $ 258 net embedded derivatives within asset host contracts (2) $ 506 (25 ) total assets 233 liabilities: policyholder account balances $ 150,497 bank deposits $ 6,416 net embedded derivatives within liability host contracts (2) $ 3,684 802 total liabilities $ 802 derivative instruments: interest rate swaps $ 92,289 $ 5,694 $ interest rate floors $ 56,246 $ 337 interest rate caps $ 49,465 $ 74 interest rate futures $ 11,684 $ (37 ) interest rate options $ 16,328 $ 580 interest rate forwards $ 675 $ 139 synthetic gics $ 4,162 $ foreign currency swaps $ 20,433 $ (426 ) foreign currency forwards $ 11,754 $ (280 ) currency futures $ 1,408 $ 4 currency options $ 4,504 $ 41 credit default swaps $ 12,553 $ 51 equity futures $ 7,008 $ (118 ) (620 ) equity options $ 22,920 $ 2,469 (440 ) variance swaps $ 19,830 $ (188 ) 14 total rate of return swaps $ 3,092 $ (99 ) (308 ) total derivative instruments $ (1,354 ) net change $ (319 ) (1) does not necessarily represent those financial instruments solely subject to equity price risk. additionally, separate account assets and liabilities and contractholder-directed unit-linked investments and associated pabs, which are equity market sensitive, are not included herein as any equity market risk is borne by the contractholder. (2) embedded derivatives are recognized in the consolidated balance sheet in the same caption as the host contract. equity price risk increased by $282 million to $319 million at december 31, 2012 from $37 million at december 31, 2011. this increase is primarily due to a change in the portfolio composition of derivatives we employ. 185 table of contents