risk factors an investment in our common stock involves risks. you should carefully consider the following risks, together with the information included in or incorporated by reference in this report, before deciding whether an investment in our common stock is suitable for you. if any of these risks actually occurs, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. in such an event, the trading prices of our common stock could decline and you might lose all or part of your investment. page 12 table of contents our incurrence of additional debt to finance a portion of the florida rock merger significantly increased our interest expense, financial leverage and debt service requirements we incurred considerable short-term and long-term debt to finance the florida rock merger. incurrence of this debt significantly increased our leverage and caused downgrades in our credit rating. there may be circumstances in which required payments of principal and/or interest on this debt could adversely affect our cash flows. there are various financial and restrictive covenants in our debt instruments. if we fail to comply with any of these requirements, the related indebtedness (and other unrelated indebtedness) could become due and payable prior to its stated maturity. a default under our debt instruments may also significantly affect our ability to obtain additional or alternative financing. our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. construction, both commercial and residential, is dependent upon the overall u.s. economy which remains weak and could weaken further commercial and residential construction levels generally move with economic cycles; when the economy is strong, construction levels rise and when the economy is weak, construction levels fall. the overall u.s. economy has been hurt by the changes in the financial services sector, including failures of several large financial institutions, significant merger and acquisition activity within that industry and the resulting constraints on credit availability. the commercial construction market declined in 2008 and 2009, due mostly to the recession and disruptions in credit availability. also, continued weakness in the residential construction market negatively affected the commercial construction market. the residential construction market further softened in 2009 as a result of the housing market downturn. the overall weakness in the economy and the uncertainty in the credit markets could cause commercial and residential construction to remain at low levels or weaken further. the collapse of the subprime mortgage market and, in turn, the housing market could continue to negatively affect demand for our products in most of our markets, particularly florida and california, sales volumes have been negatively impacted by the collapse of the subprime mortgage market and a significant decline in residential construction. our sales volumes and earnings could continue to be depressed and negatively impacted by this segment of the market until the slowdown in residential construction improves. a decline in public sector construction and reductions in governmental funding could adversely affect our operations and results in 2009, 50% of our sales volume of construction aggregates was made to contractors on publicly funded construction projects. if, as a result of a loss of federal funding, a protracted delay by congress to extend or replace the multi-year federal transportation bill that expired on september 30, 2009, or a significant reduction in state or federal budgets, spending on publicly funded construction were to be reduced significantly, our earnings and cash flows could be negatively affected. further, any delays in expenditure of stimulus funds designated for highways and other public work projects pursuant to the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 could negatively impact our earnings for 2010. difficult and volatile conditions in the credit markets could affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows the current credit environment has negatively affected the u.s. economy and demand for our products. commercial and residential construction could continue to decline if companies and consumers are unable to finance construction projects or if the economic slowdown continues to cause delays or cancellations of capital projects. a recessionary economy can also increase the likelihood we will not be able to collect on our accounts receivable from our customers. we have experienced payment delays from some of our customers during this economic downturn. the credit environment could limit our ability to issue commercial paper. additional financing or refinancing might not be available and, if available, may not be at economically favorable terms. interest rates on new issuances of long-term public debt in the market may increase due to higher credit and risk premiums. there is no guarantee we will be able to access the capital markets at economical interest rates, which could negatively affect our business. page 13 table of contents we may be required to obtain financing in order to fund certain strategic acquisitions, if they arise, or to refinance our outstanding debt. we are also exposed to risks from tightening credit markets, through the interest payable on our outstanding short-term debt and the interest cost on our commercial paper, to the extent it is available to us. while it is our objective to maintain our credit ratings at investment grade levels, we cannot be assured these ratings will remain at those levels. while we believe that we will continue to have adequate credit available to meet our needs, there can be no assurance of such credit availability. weather can materially affect our quarterly results almost all of our products are used in the public or private construction industry, and our production and distribution facilities are located outdoors. inclement weather affects both our ability to produce and distribute our products and affects our customers short-term demand since their work also can be hampered by weather. therefore, our results can be negatively affected by inclement weather. within our local markets, we operate in a highly competitive industry the construction aggregates industry is highly fragmented with a large number of independent local producers in a number of our markets. however, in most markets, we also compete against large private and public companies, some of which are more vertically integrated than we are. this results in intense competition in a number of markets in which we operate. significant competition could lead to lower prices, lower sales volumes and higher costs in some markets, negatively affecting our earnings and cash flows. in certain markets, vertically integrated competitors have acquired some asphalt mix and ready-mixed concrete customers and this trend may continue to accelerate. our long-term success is dependent upon securing and permitting aggregates reserves in strategically located areas construction aggregates are bulky and heavy and, therefore, difficult to transport efficiently. because of the nature of the products, the freight costs can quickly surpass the production costs. therefore, except for geographic regions that do not possess commercially viable deposits of aggregates and are served by rail, barge or ship, the markets for our products tend to be very localized around our quarry sites. new quarry sites often take a number of years to develop, so our strategic planning and new site development must stay ahead of actual growth. additionally, in a number of urban and suburban areas in which we operate, it is increasingly difficult to permit new sites or expand existing sites due to community resistance. therefore, our future success is dependent, in part, on our ability to accurately forecast future areas of high growth in order to locate optimal facility sites and on our ability to secure operating and environmental permits to operate at those sites. our future growth is dependent in part on acquiring other businesses in our industry and successfully integrating them with our existing operations the expansion of our business is dependent in part on the acquisition of existing businesses that own or control aggregates reserves. credit and financing availability could make it more difficult to capitalize on potential acquisitions. additionally, with regard to the acquisitions we are able to complete, our future results will be dependent in part on our ability to successfully integrate these businesses with our existing operations. changes in legal requirements and governmental policies concerning zoning, land use, environmental and other areas of the law impact our business our operations are affected by numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations related to zoning, land use and environmental matters. despite our compliance efforts, there is the inherent risk of liability in the operation of our business, especially from an environmental standpoint. these potential liabilities could have an adverse impact on our operations and profitability. our operations require numerous governmental approvals and permits, which often require us to make significant capital and maintenance expenditures to comply with zoning and environmental laws and regulations. stricter laws and regulations, or more stringent interpretations of existing laws or regulations, may impose new liabilities on us, reduce operating hours, require additional investment by us in pollution control equipment, or impede our opening new or expanding existing plants or facilities. page 14 table of contents our industry is capital intensive, resulting in significant fixed and semi-fixed costs. therefore, our earnings are highly sensitive to changes in volume due to the high levels of fixed capital required for the extraction and production of construction aggregates, profitability as measured in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net sales (margins) can be greatly impacted due to changes in volume. our products are transported by truck, rail, barge or ship, primarily by third-party providers. significant delays or increased costs affecting these transportation methods could materially affect our operations and earnings our products are distributed either by truck to local markets or by rail, barge or oceangoing vessel to remote markets. costs of transporting our products could be negatively affected by factors outside of our control, including rail service interruptions or rate increases, tariffs, rising fuel costs and capacity constraints. additionally, inclement weather, including hurricanes, tornadoes and other weather events, can negatively impact our distribution network. our future success depends greatly upon attracting and retaining qualified personnel, particularly in sales and operations a significant factor in our future profitability is our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel. our success in attracting qualified personnel, particularly in the areas of sales and operations, is affected by changing demographics of the available pool of workers with the training and skills necessary to fill the available positions, the impact on the labor supply due to general economic conditions, and our ability to offer competitive compensation and benefit packages. we use large amounts of electricity, diesel fuel, liquid asphalt and other petroleum-based resources that are subject to potential supply constraints and significant price fluctuation in our production and distribution processes, we consume significant amounts of electricity, diesel fuel, liquid asphalt and other petroleum-based resources. the availability and pricing of these resources are subject to market forces that are beyond our control. our suppliers contract separately for the purchase of such resources and our sources of supply could be interrupted should our suppliers not be able to obtain these materials due to higher demand or other factors interrupting their availability. variability in the supply and prices of these resources could materially affect our operating results from period to period and rising costs could erode our profitability. the costs of providing pension and healthcare benefits to our employees have risen in recent years. continuing increases in such costs could negatively affect our earnings the costs of providing pension and healthcare benefits to our employees have increased substantially over the past several years. we have instituted measures to help slow the rate of increase. however, if these costs continue to rise, this could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings. we cannot predict the outcome of litigation and other contingencies with certainty we are involved in several class action and complex litigation proceedings, some arising from our previous ownership and operation of our chemicals business. although we divested our chemicals business in june 2005, we retained certain liabilities related to the business. as required by generally accepted accounting principles, we establish reserves when a loss is determined to be probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. our assessment of probability and loss estimates are based on the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of a loss contingency, and could result in an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. for a description of our current significant legal proceedings see note 12 commitments and contingencies in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data. climate change and climate change legislation or regulations may adversely impact our business a number of governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating legislative and regulatory change in response to the potential impacts of climate change including pending u.s. legislation that, if enacted, would limit and reduce greenhouse gas emissions through a cap and trade system of allowances and credits, among other provisions. in addition, the environmental protection agency (epa) has for the first time required large emitters of greenhouse gases to collect and report data with respect to their greenhouse gas emissions and has proposed a permitting process for large emitters. we have determined that our newberry cement plant would likely be subject to this permitting under the regulations as currently proposed. these regulatory mechanisms may be either voluntary or legislated and may impact our operations directly or indirectly through customers or our supply chain. any such cap-and-trade page 15 table of contents system or other limitations imposed on the emission of greenhouse gases could have a material adverse affect on our financial position, results of operation or cash flows. the potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly uncertain, and will be particular to the specific geographic location of our facilities and operations. these may include changes in rainfall patterns, shortages of water or other natural resources, changing sea levels, changing storm patterns and intensities, and changing temperature levels. the impact of these laws and regulations could also potentially increase our energy costs. these effects may adversely impact the cost, production and financial performance of our operations. we use estimates in accounting for a number of significant items. changes in our estimates could affect our future financial results as discussed more fully in critical accounting policies under item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, we use significant judgment in accounting for goodwill and goodwill impairment; impairment of long-lived assets excluding goodwill; reclamation costs; pension and other postretirement benefits; environmental compliance; claims and litigation including self-insurance; and income taxes. although we believe we have sufficient experience and reasonable procedures to enable us to make appropriate assumptions and formulate reasonable estimates, these assumptions and estimates could change significantly in the future and could result in a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to certain market risks arising from transactions that are entered into in the normal course of business. in order to manage or reduce these market risks, we may utilize derivative financial instruments. we are exposed to interest rate risk due to our various credit facilities and long-term debt instruments. at times, we use interest rate swap agreements to manage this risk. in december 2007, we issued $325.0 million of 3-year floating (variable) rate notes that bear interest at 3-month libor plus 1.25% per annum. concurrently, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement in the stated (notional) amount of $325.0 million. at december 31, 2009, we recognized a liability of $11.2 million (included in other accrued liabilities), equal to the fair value of this swap. at december 31, 2008, we recognized a liability of $16.2 million, equal to the fair value of this swap (included in other noncurrent liabilities). a decline in interest rates of 0.75 percentage point would increase the fair market value of our liability by approximately $1.9 million. we do not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. at december 31, 2009, the estimated fair value of our long-term debt instruments including current maturities was $2,685.9 million as compared to a book value of $2,501.5 million. the estimated fair value was determined by discounting expected future cash flows based on credit-adjusted interest rates on u.s. treasury bills, notes or bonds, as appropriate. the fair value estimate is based on information available to management as of the measurement date. although management is not aware of any factors that would significantly affect the estimated fair value amount, it has not been comprehensively revalued since the measurement date. the effect of a decline in interest rates of 1 percentage point would increase the fair market value of our liability by approximately $134.1 million. at december 31, 2009, we had $175.0 million outstanding under our 3-year syndicated term loan established in june 2008. these borrowings bear interest at variable rates, principally libor plus a spread based on our long-term credit rating. an increase in libor or a downgrade in our long-term credit rating would increase our borrowing costs for amounts outstanding under these arrangements. we are exposed to certain economic risks related to the costs of our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. these economic risks include changes in the discount rate for high-quality bonds, the expected return on plan assets, the rate of compensation increase for salaried employees and the rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered healthcare benefits. the impact of a change in these assumptions on our annual pension and other postretirement benefit costs is discussed in greater detail within the critical accounting policies section of this annual report. page 44 table of contentsrisk factors an investment in our common stock involves risks. you should carefully consider the following risks, together with the information included in or incorporated by reference in this report before deciding whether an investment in our common stock is suitable for you. if any of these risks actually occurs, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. in such an event, the trading prices of our common stock could decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment. risks and uncertainties related to the mergers. we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the mergers. the mergers involve the integration of two companies that previously have operated independently, each with its own business, customers, employees, culture and systems. to realize the anticipated benefits from the mergers, we must successfully combine the businesses of legacy vulcan and florida rock in a manner that permits, among other things, earnings growth and cost savings. in addition, we must achieve these savings without adversely affecting revenues. if we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the mergers may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. the failure to integrate successfully legacy vulcan and florida rock businesses and operations in the expected time frame may adversely affect vulcan future results. until the completion of the mergers, legacy vulcan and florida rock operated independently. we face significant challenges in consolidating functions, integrating their organizations, procedures and operations in a timely and efficient manner and retaining key legacy vulcan and florida rock personnel. the integration of legacy vulcan and florida rock will be costly, complex and time consuming. the integration process and other disruptions from the transaction could be more costly than we expect or result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and others with whom we have business dealings or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the mergers. many of these difficulties are outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. integrating legacy vulcan and florida rock may divert management attention away from our operations. successful integration of legacy vulcan and florida rock organizations, procedures and operations may place a significant burden on our management and its internal resources. the integration efforts could divert management focus and resources from other strategic opportunities and from operational matters during the integration process. our incurrence of additional debt to pay the cash portion of the merger consideration significantly increased our interest expense, financial leverage and debt service requirements. we established $4.0 billion of new credit facilities in connection with the mergers, and borrowed $3.35 billion under such credit facilities in order to (i) acquire 70% of the outstanding shares of florida rock common stock, (ii) settle for cash the florida rock stock options outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the mergers and (iii) finance our transaction costs. incurrence of this new debt significantly increased our leverage. there may be circumstances in which required payments of principal and/or interest on this new debt could adversely affect our cash flows and operating results. 8 table of contents there are various financial covenants and other restrictions in our debt instruments. if we fail to comply with any of these requirements, the related indebtedness (and other unrelated indebtedness) could become due and payable prior to its stated maturity. a default under our debt instruments may also significantly affect our ability to obtain additional or alternative financing. our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. the costs of the mergers could adversely affect our operating results. in connection with the mergers, we incurred certain costs, consisting of employee benefit costs, investment banking, legal and accounting fees, and other related charges. in addition, we will incur certain expenses in connection with the integration of legacy vulcan and florida rock businesses, particularly relating to the management information systems. risks and uncertainties related to other aspects of our business. the collapse of the subprime mortgage market and the slow recovery in residential construction could continue to negatively affect our volumes. in some of our markets, particularly florida and california, sales volumes have been negatively impacted by the collapse of the subprime mortgage market and the severe slowdown in residential construction. our sales volumes and earnings could continue to be depressed and negatively impacted by this segment of the market until these slowdowns in residential construction improve. a decline in public sector construction and reductions in governmental funding could adversely affect our operations and results. in 2007, 47% of our sales volume of construction aggregates was made to contractors on publicly funded construction. if, as a result of a loss of funding or a significant reduction in state or federal budgets, spending on publicly funded construction were to be reduced significantly, our earnings and cash flows could be negatively affected. weather can materially affect our quarterly results. almost all of our products are used in the public or private construction industry, and our production and distribution facilities are located outdoors. inclement weather affects both our ability to produce and distribute our products and affects our customers short-term demand since their work also can be hampered by weather. therefore, our results can be negatively affected by inclement weather. within our local markets, we operate in a highly competitive industry. the construction aggregates industry is highly fragmented with a large number of independent local producers in a number of our markets. however, in most markets, we also compete against large private and public companies. this results in intense competition in a number of markets in which we operate. significant competition could lead to lower prices, lower sales volumes and higher costs in some markets, negatively affecting our earnings and cash flows. our long-term success is dependent upon securing and permitting aggregates reserves in strategically located areas. construction aggregates are bulky and heavy and, therefore, difficult to transport efficiently. because of the nature of the products, the freight costs can quickly surpass the production costs. therefore, except for geographic regions that do not possess commercially viable deposits of aggregates and are served by rail, barge or ship, the markets for our products tend to be very localized around our quarry sites. new quarry sites often take a number of years to develop, so our strategic planning and new site development must stay ahead of actual growth. additionally, in a number of urban and suburban areas in which we operate, it is increasingly difficult to permit new sites or expand existing sites due to community resistance. 9 table of contents therefore, our future success is dependent, in part, on our ability to accurately forecast future areas of high growth in order to locate optimally facility sites and on our ability to secure operating and environmental permits to operate at those sites. we use large amounts of electricity, diesel fuel, liquid asphalt and other petroleum-based resources that are subject to potential supply constraints and significant price fluctuation. in our production and distribution processes, we consume significant amounts of electricity, diesel fuel, liquid asphalt and other petroleum-based resources. the availability and pricing of these resources are subject to market forces that are beyond our control. our suppliers contract separately for the purchase of such resources and our sources of supply could be interrupted should our suppliers not be able to obtain these materials due to higher demand or other factors interrupting their availability. variability in the supply and prices of these resources could materially affect our operating results from period to period and rising costs could erode our profitability. we use estimates in accounting for a number of significant items. changes in our estimates could affect our future financial results. as discussed more fully in critical accounting policies under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, on pages 22 through 38 of our 2007 annual report to shareholders, we use significant judgment in accounting for goodwill and goodwill impairment; impairment of long-lived assets excluding goodwill; reclamation costs; pension and other postretirement benefits; environmental compliance; claims and litigation including self-insurance; and income taxes. although we believe we have sufficient experience and reasonable procedures to enable us to make appropriate assumptions and formulate reasonable estimates, these assumptions and estimates could change significantly in the future and could result in a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings. we cannot predict the outcome of litigation and other contingencies with certainty. we are involved in several class action and complex litigation proceedings, some arising from our previous ownership and operation of our chemicals business. although we divested our chemicals business in june 2005, we retained certain liabilities related to the business. as required by generally accepted accounting principles, we establish reserves when a loss is determined to be probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. our assessment of probability and loss estimates are based on the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of a loss contingency. furthermore, unfavorable results in one or more of these actions could result in an adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. for a description of our current legal proceedings see item 3, legal proceedings on pages 15 through 16 of this report and note 12, other commitments and contingencies, on pages 65 through 68 to the consolidated financial statements. the costs of providing pension and healthcare benefits to our employees have risen in recent years. continuing increases in such costs could negatively affect our earnings. the costs of providing pension and healthcare benefits to our employees have increased substantially over the past several years. we have instituted measures to help slow the rate of increase. however, if these costs continue to rise, this could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our industry is capital intensive, resulting in significant fixed and semi-fixed costs. therefore, our earnings are highly sensitive to changes in volume. due to the high levels of fixed capital required for the extraction and production of construction aggregates, profitability as measured in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net sales ( margins ) can be greatly impacted due to changes in volume. 10 table of contents our products generally must be transported by rail, truck, barge or ship, usually by third party providers. significant delays or increased costs affecting these transportation methods could materially affect our operations and earnings. our products are distributed either by truck to local markets or by rail, barge or oceangoing vessel to remote markets. costs of transporting our products could be negatively affected by factors outside of our control, including rail service interruptions or rate increases, tariffs, rising fuel costs and capacity constraints. additionally, inclement weather, including hurricanes, tornadoes and other weather events, can negatively impact our distribution network. our future success depends greatly upon attracting and retaining qualified personnel, particularly in sales and operations. a significant factor in our future profitability is our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel. our success in attracting qualified personnel, particularly in the areas of sales and operations, is affected by changing demographics of the available pool of workers with the training and skills necessary to fill the available positions, the impact on the labor supply due to general economic conditions, and our ability to offer competitive compensation and benefit packages. changes in legal requirements and governmental policies concerning zoning land use, environmental and other areas of the laws impact our business. our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. our operations are affected by numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations related to zoning, land use and environmental matters. despite our compliance efforts there is the inherent risk of liability in the operation of our business, especially from an environmental standpoint. these potential liabilities could have an adverse impact on our operations and profitability. our operations require numerous governmental approvals and permits, which often require us to make significant capital and maintenance expenditures to comply with zoning and environmental laws and regulations. stricter laws and regulations, or more stringent interpretations of existing laws or regulations, may impose new liabilities on us, require additional investment by us in pollution control equipment, or impede our opening new or expanding existing plants or facilities. our future growth is dependent in part on acquiring other businesses in our industry and successfully integrating them with our existing operation. as a result of the limited opportunities to establish greenfield quarry sites, expansion of our business is dependent in part on the acquisition of existing businesses that own aggregate reserves. our future results will be dependent in part on our ability to successfully integrate these businesses with our company. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the section entitled market risk in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on page 32 of our 2007 annual report to shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors an investment in our common stock involves risks. you should carefully consider the following risks, together with the information included in or incorporated by reference in this report, before deciding whether an investment in our common stock is suitable for you. if any of these risks actually occurs, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. in such an event, the trading prices of our common stock could decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment. risks and uncertainties related to the florida rock merger we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the florida rock merger the florida rock merger involves the integration of two companies that previously had operated independently, each with its own business, customers, employees, culture and systems. to realize the anticipated benefits from the mergers, we must successfully combine the businesses of vulcan and florida rock in a manner that permits, among other things, earnings growth and cost savings. in addition, we must achieve these savings without adversely affecting revenues. if we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the mergers may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. our incurrence of additional debt to finance a portion of the florida rock merger significantly increased our interest expense, financial leverage and debt service requirements we have incurred considerable short-term and long-term debt to finance the florida rock merger. incurrence of this debt significantly increased our leverage and caused a downgrade in our credit rating. there may be circumstances in which required payments of principal and/or interest on this debt could adversely affect our cash flows and operating results. there are various financial covenants and other restrictions in our debt instruments. if we fail to comply with any of these requirements, the related indebtedness (and other unrelated indebtedness) could become due and payable prior to its stated maturity. a default under our debt instruments may also significantly affect our ability to obtain additional or alternative financing. our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. risks and uncertainties related to other aspects of our business construction, both commercial and residential, is dependent upon the overall u.s. economy which remains weak and could weaken further commercial and residential construction levels generally move with economic cycles; when the economy is strong, construction levels rise, and when the economy is weak, construction levels fall. the overall u.s. economy has been hurt by the changes in the financial services sector, including failures of several large financial institutions, significant merger and acquisition activity within that industry, and the resulting lack of credit 8 table of contents availability. the commercial construction market declined in 2008, due mostly to disruptions in credit availability and was felt most significantly starting in september 2008. also, continued weakness in the residential construction market negatively affected the commercial construction market. the residential construction market further softened in 2008 as a result of the housing market downturn. the overall weakness in the economy and the crisis in the credit markets could cause commercial and residential construction to remain at low levels or weaken further. the collapse of the subprime mortgage market and, in turn, the housing market could continue to negatively affect demand for our products in most of our markets, particularly florida and california, sales volumes have been negatively impacted by the collapse of the subprime mortgage market and a significant decline in residential construction. our sales volumes and earnings could continue to be depressed and negatively impacted by this segment of the market until these slowdowns in residential construction improve. a decline in public sector construction and reductions in governmental funding could adversely affect our operations and results in 2008, 45% of our sales volume of construction aggregates was made to contractors on publicly funded construction. if, as a result of a loss of funding or a significant reduction in state or federal budgets, spending on publicly funded construction were to be reduced significantly, our earnings and cash flows could be negatively affected. difficult and volatile conditions in the credit markets could affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows the current credit environment has negatively affected the u.s. economy and demand for our products. commercial and residential construction could continue to decline if companies and consumers are unable to finance construction projects or if the economic slowdown continues to cause delays or cancellations of capital projects. state and federal budget issues may negatively affect the funding available for infrastructure spending unless the economic stimulus plan provides the requisite funding. a recessionary economy can also increase the likelihood we will not be able to collect on our accounts receivable from our customers. we have experienced a delay in payment from some of our customers during this economic downturn. the current credit environment has limited our ability to issue commercial paper. additional financing or refinancing might not be available and, if available, may not be at economically favorable terms. interest rates on new issuances of long-term public debt in the market have increased, reflecting higher credit and risk premiums. there is no guarantee we will be able to access the capital markets at economical interest rates, which could negatively affect our business. we may be required to obtain financing in order to fund certain strategic acquisitions, if they arise, or to refinance our outstanding debt. we are also exposed to risks from tightening credit markets, through the interest payable on our outstanding short-term debt and the interest cost on our commercial paper, to the extent it is available to us. while it is the objective of management to maintain our credit ratings at investment grade levels, we cannot be assured these ratings will remain at those levels. while management believes we will continue to have adequate credit available to meet our needs, there can be no assurance of such credit availability. weather can materially affect our quarterly results almost all of our products are used in the public or private construction industry, and our production and distribution facilities are located outdoors. inclement weather affects both our ability to produce and distribute our products and affects our customers short-term demand since their work also can be hampered by weather. therefore, our results can be negatively affected by inclement weather. within our local markets, we operate in a highly competitive industry the construction aggregates industry is highly fragmented with a large number of independent local producers in a number of our markets. however, in most markets, we also compete against large private and public companies. this results in intense competition in a number of markets in which we operate. significant competition could lead to lower prices, lower sales volumes and higher costs in some markets, negatively affecting our earnings and cash flows. 9 table of contents our long-term success is dependent upon securing and permitting aggregates reserves in strategically located areas construction aggregates are bulky and heavy and, therefore, difficult to transport efficiently. because of the nature of the products, the freight costs can quickly surpass the production costs. therefore, except for geographic regions that do not possess commercially viable deposits of aggregates and are served by rail, barge or ship, the markets for our products tend to be very localized around our quarry sites. new quarry sites often take a number of years to develop, so our strategic planning and new site development must stay ahead of actual growth. additionally, in a number of urban and suburban areas in which we operate, it is increasingly difficult to permit new sites or expand existing sites due to community resistance. therefore, our future success is dependent, in part, on our ability to accurately forecast future areas of high growth in order to locate optimal facility sites and on our ability to secure operating and environmental permits to operate at those sites. we use large amounts of electricity, diesel fuel, liquid asphalt and other petroleum-based resources that are subject to potential supply constraints and significant price fluctuation in our production and distribution processes, we consume significant amounts of electricity, diesel fuel, liquid asphalt and other petroleum-based resources. the availability and pricing of these resources are subject to market forces that are beyond our control. our suppliers contract separately for the purchase of such resources and our sources of supply could be interrupted should our suppliers not be able to obtain these materials due to higher demand or other factors interrupting their availability. variability in the supply and prices of these resources could materially affect our operating results from period to period and rising costs could erode our profitability. we use estimates in accounting for a number of significant items. changes in our estimates could affect our future financial results as discussed more fully in critical accounting policies under item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations below, we use significant judgment in accounting for goodwill and goodwill impairment; impairment of long-lived assets excluding goodwill; reclamation costs; pension and other postretirement benefits; environmental compliance; claims and litigation including self-insurance; and income taxes. although we believe we have sufficient experience and reasonable procedures to enable us to make appropriate assumptions and formulate reasonable estimates, these assumptions and estimates could change significantly in the future and could result in a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings. we cannot predict the outcome of litigation and other contingencies with certainty we are involved in several class action and complex litigation proceedings, some arising from our previous ownership and operation of our chemicals business. although we divested our chemicals business in june 2005, we retained certain liabilities related to the business. as required by generally accepted accounting principles, we establish reserves when a loss is determined to be probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. our assessment of probability and loss estimates are based on the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of a loss contingency. furthermore, unfavorable results in one or more of these actions could result in an adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. for a description of our current legal proceedings see note 12 other commitments and contingencies in item 8 financial statements and supplementary data below. the costs of providing pension and healthcare benefits to our employees have risen in recent years. continuing increases in such costs could negatively affect our earnings the costs of providing pension and healthcare benefits to our employees have increased substantially over the past several years. we have instituted measures to help slow the rate of increase. however, if these costs continue to rise, this could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. our industry is capital intensive, resulting in significant fixed and semi-fixed costs. therefore, our earnings are highly sensitive to changes in volume due to the high levels of fixed capital required for the extraction and production of construction aggregates, profitability as measured in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net sales ( margins ) can be greatly impacted due to changes in volume. 10 table of contents our products generally must be transported by truck, rail, barge or ship, usually by third party providers. significant delays or increased costs affecting these transportation methods could materially affect our operations and earnings our products are distributed either by truck to local markets or by rail, barge or oceangoing vessel to remote markets. costs of transporting our products could be negatively affected by factors outside of our control, including rail service interruptions or rate increases, tariffs, rising fuel costs and capacity constraints. additionally, inclement weather, including hurricanes, tornadoes and other weather events, can negatively impact our distribution network. our future success depends greatly upon attracting and retaining qualified personnel, particularly in sales and operations a significant factor in our future profitability is our ability to attract, develop and retain qualified personnel. our success in attracting qualified personnel, particularly in the areas of sales and operations, is affected by changing demographics of the available pool of workers with the training and skills necessary to fill the available positions, the impact on the labor supply due to general economic conditions, and our ability to offer competitive compensation and benefit packages. changes in legal requirements and governmental policies concerning zoning land use, environmental and other areas of the law impact our business our operations expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. our operations are affected by numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations related to zoning, land use and environmental matters. despite our compliance efforts there is the inherent risk of liability in the operation of our business, especially from an environmental standpoint. these potential liabilities could have an adverse impact on our operations and profitability. our operations require numerous governmental approvals and permits, which often require us to make significant capital and maintenance expenditures to comply with zoning and environmental laws and regulations. stricter laws and regulations, or more stringent interpretations of existing laws or regulations, may impose new liabilities on us, reduce operating hours, require additional investment by us in pollution control equipment, or impede our opening new or expanding existing plants or facilities. our future growth is dependent in part on acquiring other businesses in our industry and successfully integrating them with our existing operations the expansion of our business is dependent in part on the acquisition of existing businesses that own aggregates reserves. our constrained credit and financing opportunities make it more difficult to capitalize on potential acquisitions. additionally, with regard to the acquisitions we are able to complete, our future results will be dependent in part on our ability to successfully integrate these businesses with our existing operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to certain market risks arising from transactions that are entered into in the normal course of business. in order to manage or reduce these market risks, we may utilize derivative financial instruments. we are exposed to interest rate risk due to our various credit facilities and long-term debt instruments. at times, we use interest rate swap agreements to manage this risk. in december 2007, we issued $325 million of 3-year floating (variable) rate notes that bear interest at 3-month libor plus 1.25% per annum. concurrently, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement with a counterparty in the stated (notional) amount of $325 million and a contractual term coinciding with the maturity of the $325 million of 3-year floating rate notes. at december 31, 2008, we recognized a liability of $16.2 million, equal to the fair value of this swap (included in other noncurrent liabilities) and an accumulated other comprehensive loss of $9.6 million, net of tax of $6.6 million, equal to the highly effective portion of this swap. at december 31, 2007, we recognized a liability of $1.1 million equal to the fair value of this swap (included in other noncurrent liabilities), and an accumulated other comprehensive loss of $0.7 million, net of tax of $0.4 million, equal to the highly effective portion of this swap. we are exposed to market risk for changes in libor as a result of this interest rate swap agreement. a decline in interest rates of 0.75 percentage point would increase the fair market value of our liability by approximately $4.4 million. at december 31, 2008, the estimated fair market value of our long-term debt instruments including current maturities was $2,155.2 million as compared with a book value of $2,465.3 million. the effect of a decline in interest rates of 1 percentage point would increase the fair market value of our liability by approximately $74.5 million. we do not enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. we are exposed to certain economic risks related to the costs of our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. these economic risks include changes in the discount rate for high-quality bonds, the expected return on plan assets, the rate of compensation increase for salaried employees and the rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered healthcare benefits. the impact of a change in these assumptions on our annual pension and other postretirement benefit costs is discussed in greater detail within the critical accounting policies section of this annual report. 42 table of contents