risk factors 15 risk factors the business, financial condition and operating results of the company can be affected by a number of factors, whether currently known or unknown, including but not limited to those described below, any one or more of which could, directly or indirectly, cause the company's actual results of operations and financial condition to vary materially from past, or from anticipated future, results of operations and financial condition. any of these factors, in whole or in part, could materially and adversely affect the company's business, financial condition, results of operations or the market price of its common stock. if we fail to realize the anticipated benefits from our acquisition of hgst on a timely basis, or at all, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. in connection with obtaining the regulatory approvals required to complete the acquisition of hgst, we agreed to certain conditions required by the ministry of commerce of the people's republic of china ( mofcom ), including adopting measures to keep hgst as an independent competitor until mofcom agrees otherwise (with the minimum period being two years from the march 8, 2012 closing date of the acquisition). we worked closely with mofcom to finalize an operations plan that outlines in more detail the conditions of the competitive requirement. compliance with these measures has affected, and may continue to affect, our business and financial conditions in the following ways: limits our ability to integrate the businesses of our hgst and wd subsidiaries (and we do not expect to achieve significant operating expense synergies while the hold separate condition continues to exist); has caused, and could cause further, difficulties in retaining key employees and delays or uncertainties in making decisions about the combined business; has resulted in, and could result in additional, significant costs (including higher capital expenditures relative to our competitors as a result of maintaining separate functions in several areas); and has required, and could require additional, changes in business practices. in march 2014, we submitted an application to mofcom requesting that the regulatory restrictions be lifted. however, we cannot predict whether or when these restrictions will be wholly or partially lifted or whether we will be able to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of hgst even if the restrictions are wholly or partially lifted. 15 table of contents in connection with obtaining the regulatory approvals required to complete our acquisition of hgst, we divested certain assets to toshiba and agreed to provide certain support services for those assets for a period of time, and our business will be adversely affected in the event we fail to successfully meet our obligations to toshiba under the divestiture transaction. in connection with obtaining the regulatory approvals required to complete our acquisition of hgst, we agreed, subject to review by regulatory agencies in certain jurisdictions, to divest certain assets to toshiba that would expand toshiba's capacity to manufacture 3.5-inch hard drives for the desktop, consumer electronics and near-line (business critical) applications. while this divestiture transaction closed in may 2012, we agreed to provide certain support service for those assets for a period of time. if we are not able to meet our continuing service obligations under our agreement with toshiba, the jurisdictions that conditioned their approval of the hgst acquisition on the divestiture could impose additional obligations on us, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. adverse global economic conditions and credit market uncertainty could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. adverse global economic conditions and uncertain conditions in the credit market have had, and in the future could have, a significant adverse effect on our company and on the storage industry as a whole. several factors contribute to these conditions and this uncertainty, including, but not limited to, volatility in the financial and real estate markets, cost increases and other macroeconomic factors. some of the risks and uncertainties we face as a result of these conditions include the following: volatile demand. our direct and indirect customers may delay or reduce their purchases of our products and systems containing our products. in addition, many of our customers rely on credit financing to purchase our products. if negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers' access to credit, product orders may decrease, which could result in lower revenue. likewise, if our suppliers, sub-suppliers and sub-contractors (collectively referred to as suppliers ) face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may be unable to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products. these actions could result in reductions in our revenue and increased operating costs, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. restructuring activities. if demand for our products slows as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions, we may undertake restructuring activities to realign our cost structure with softening demand. the occurrence of restructuring activities could result in impairment charges and other expenses, which could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. credit volatility and loss of receivables. we extend credit and payment terms to some of our customers. in addition to ongoing credit evaluations of our customers' financial condition, we traditionally seek to mitigate our credit risk by purchasing credit insurance on certain of our accounts receivable balances. as a result of the continued uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions, however, we may find it increasingly difficult to be able to insure these accounts receivable. we could suffer significant losses if a customer whose accounts receivable we have not insured, or have underinsured, fails and is unable to pay us. additionally, negative or uncertain global economic conditions increase the risk that if a customer whose accounts receivable we have insured fails, the financial condition of the insurance carrier for such customer account may have also deteriorated such that it cannot cover our loss. a significant loss of an accounts receivable that we cannot recover through credit insurance would have a negative impact on our financial results. impairment charges. negative or uncertain global economic conditions could result in circumstances, such as a sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization or a decrease in our forecasted cash flows such that they are insufficient, indicating that the carrying value of our long-lived assets or goodwill may be impaired. if we are required to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements because an impairment of our long-lived assets or goodwill is determined, our results of operations will be adversely affected. 16 table of contents we participate in a highly competitive industry that is subject to the risk of declining average selling prices ("asps"), volatile gross margins and significant shifts in market share, all of which could adversely affect our operating results. demand for our devices, software and solutions that we offer to our customers, which we refer to in this item 1a. as our products , depends in large part on the demand for systems manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems. the demand for systems has been volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand for our products in any given period. as a result, the storage market has experienced periods of excess capacity, which can lead to liquidation of excess inventories and more intense price competition. if more intense price competition occurs, we may be forced to lower prices sooner and more than expected, which could adversely impact revenue and gross margins. in addition, we compete based on our ability to offer our customers competitive solutions that provide the most current and desired product and service features. we expect that competition will continue to be intense, and there is a risk that our competitors' products may be less costly, provide better performance or include additional features when compared to our products. our asps and gross margins also tend to decline when there is a shift in the mix of product sales, and sales of lower priced products increase relative to those of higher priced products. in addition, rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and profitability of sales of existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence. these factors, along with others, may result in significant shifts in market share among the industry's major participants, including a substantial decrease in our market share. our failure to accurately forecast market and customer demand for our products, or to quickly adjust to forecast changes, could adversely affect our business and financial results or operating efficiencies. the data storage industry faces difficulties in accurately forecasting market and customer demand for its products. the variety and volume of products we manufacture is based in part on these forecasts. accurately forecasting demand has become increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers in light of the volatility in global economic conditions and industry consolidation, resulting in less availability of historical market data for certain product segments. in addition, because our products are designed to be largely interchangeable with competitors' products, our demand forecasts may be impacted significantly by the strategic actions of our competitors. as forecasting demand becomes more difficult, the risk that our forecasts are not in line with demand increases. if our forecasts exceed actual market demand, then we could experience periods of product oversupply and price decreases, which could impact our financial performance. if market demand increases significantly beyond our forecasts or beyond our ability to add manufacturing capacity, then we may not be able to satisfy customer product needs, possibly resulting in a loss of market share if our competitors are able to meet customer demands. we experience significant sales seasonality and cyclicality, which could cause our operating results to fluctuate. sales of computer systems, storage subsystems and ce tend to be seasonal and cyclical, and therefore we expect to continue to experience seasonality and cyclicality in our business as we respond to variations in our customers' demand for our products. however, changes in seasonal and cyclical patterns have made it, and could continue to make it, more difficult for us to forecast demand, especially as a result of the current macroeconomic environment. changes in the product or channel mix of our business can also impact seasonal and cyclical patterns, adding complexity in forecasting demand. seasonality and cyclicality also may lead to higher volatility in our stock price. it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which seasonality and cyclicality may affect our stock price or business in future periods because of the rate and unpredictability of product transitions and new product introductions and macroeconomic conditions. our sales to the ce, cloud computing and enterprise markets, representing an increasing percentage of our overall revenue, may grow at a slower rate than current estimates, which could materially adversely impact our operating results. the secular growth of digital data is resulting in a more diversified mix of revenue from the ce, cloud computing and enterprise markets. as sales into these markets become a more significant portion of our revenue, events or circumstances that adversely impact demand in these markets, or our inability to address that demand successfully, could materially adversely impact our operating results. for example, demand in, or our sales to, these markets may be adversely affected by the following: mobile devices. there has been and continues to be a rapid growth in devices that do not contain a hard drive such as tablet computers and smart phones. as tablet computers and smart phones provide many of the same capabilities as pcs, they have displaced or materially affected, and may continue to displace or materially affect, the demand for pcs. if we are not successful in adapting our product offerings to include disk drives or alternative storage solutions that address these devices, demand for our products in these markets may decrease and our financial results could be materially adversely affected. 17 table of contents cloud computing. consumers traditionally have stored their data on their pc, often supplemented with personal external storage devices. most businesses also include similar local storage as a primary or secondary storage location. this storage is typically provided by hard disk drives. over the last few years, cloud computing has emerged whereby applications and data are hosted, accessed and processed through a third-party provider over a broadband internet connection, potentially reducing or eliminating the need for, among other things, significant storage inside the accessing computer. if we are not successful in manufacturing compelling products to address the cloud computing opportunity, demand for our products in these markets may decrease and our financial results could be materially adversely affected. obsolete inventory. in some cases, products we manufacture for these other markets are uniquely configured for a single customer's application, creating a risk of obsolete inventory if anticipated demand is not actually realized. macroeconomic conditions. consumer spending has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected in many regions due to negative macroeconomic conditions and high unemployment levels. please see the risk factor entitled adverse global economic conditions and credit market uncertainty could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. for more risks and uncertainties relating to macroeconomic conditions. in addition, demand in these other markets also could be negatively impacted by developments in the regulation and enforcement of digital rights management and the emergence of new technologies, such as data deduplication, compression and storage virtualization. if we are not able to respond appropriately, these factors could lead to our customers' storage needs being satisfied at lower prices with lower capacity hard drives or solid-state storage products, thereby decreasing our revenue or putting us at a disadvantage to competing storage technologies. as a result, even with increasing aggregate demand for digital storage, if we fail to anticipate or timely respond to these developments in the demand for storage, our asps could decline, which could adversely affect our operating results. furthermore, our ability to accurately read and respond to market trends, such as trends relating to the internet or big data, could harm our results. if we fail to respond to changes in the client compute market (the pc market ), our operating results could suffer. while sales to the other markets are becoming a more significant source of revenue, sales to the pc market remain an important part of our business. the pc market, however, has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by the growth of tablet computers, smart phones and similar devices that perform many of the same capabilities as pcs, the lengthening of product life cycles and macroeconomic conditions. if we fail to respond to changes in the pc market, our operating results could suffer. additionally, if demand in the pc market is worse than expected as a result of these or other conditions, demand for our products in the pc market may decrease at a faster rate and our operating results may be adversely affected. selling to the retail market is an important part of our business, and if we fail to maintain and grow our market share or gain market acceptance of our branded products, our operating results could suffer. selling branded products is an important part of our business, and as our branded products revenue increases as a portion of our overall revenue, our success in the retail market becomes increasingly important to our operating results. our success in the retail market depends in large part on our ability to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation and to expand into and gain market acceptance of our products in multiple channels, including traditional retail, e-commerce and online channels. adverse publicity, whether or not justified, or allegations of product or service quality issues, even if false or unfounded, could tarnish our reputation and cause our customers to choose products offered by our competitors. in addition, the proliferation of new methods of mass communication facilitated by the internet makes it easier for false or unfounded allegations to adversely affect our brand image and reputation. if customers no longer maintain a preference for wd , hgst or g-technology brand products, our operating results may be adversely affected. sales in the distribution channel are important to our business, and if we fail to respond to demand changes in distribution markets or if distribution markets for our products weaken, our operating results could suffer. our distribution customers typically sell to small computer manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators and other resellers. we face significant competition in this channel as a result of limited product qualification programs and a significant focus on price and availability of product. in addition, the pc market is experiencing a shift to notebook and other mobile devices and, as a result, more computing devices are being delivered to the market as complete systems, which could weaken the distribution market. if we fail to respond to changes in demand in the distribution market, our operating results could suffer. additionally, if the distribution market weakens as a result of a slowing pc growth rate, technology transitions or a significant change in consumer buying preference, or if we experience significant price declines due to demand changes in the distribution channel, then our operating results would be adversely affected. 18 table of contents loss of market share with or by a key customer, or consolidation among our customer base, could harm our operating results. during the quarter ended june 27, 2014 , 45% of our revenue came from sales to our top 10 customers and during the fiscal year ended june 27, 2014, 44% of our revenue came from sales to such customers. these customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial demands on us, including demands on product pricing and on contractual terms, often resulting in the allocation of risk to us as the supplier. our ability to maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is essential to our future performance. if we lose a key customer, if any of our key customers reduce their orders of our products or require us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, if a customer is acquired by one of our competitors or if a key customer suffers financial hardship, our operating results would likely be harmed. additionally, if there is consolidation among our customer base, our customers may be able to command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. in addition, if, as a result of increased leverage, customer pressures require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, we could decide not to sell our products to a particular customer, which could result in a decrease in our revenue. consolidation among our customer base may also lead to reduced demand for our products, replacement of our products by the combined entity with those of our competitors and cancellations of orders, each of which could harm our operating results. also, the storage ecosystem is constantly evolving, and our traditional customer base is changing. fewer companies now hold greater market share for certain applications and services, such as social media, shopping and streaming media. as a result, the competitive landscape is changing, giving these companies increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. in addition, the changes in our evolving customer base create new selling and distribution patterns to which we must adapt. to remain competitive, we must respond to these changes by ensuring we have proper scale in this evolving market, as well as offer products that meet the technological requirements of this customer base at competitive pricing points. to the extent we are not successful in adequately responding to these changes, our operating results could be harmed. expansion into new markets may increase the complexity of our business, cause us to increase our research and development expenses to develop new products and technologies or cause our capital expenditures to increase, and if we are unable to successfully adapt our business processes and product offerings as required by these new markets, our ability to grow will be adversely affected. to remain a significant supplier in the storage industry and to expand into new markets, we will need to offer a broad range of storage products to our customers. we currently offer a variety of 3.5-inch and 2.5-inch hard drives, solid state drives and other products for the pc and other storage markets. as we expand our product line to sell into new markets, the overall complexity of our business increases at an accelerated rate and we become subject to different market dynamics. these dynamics may include, among other things, different demand volume, seasonality, product requirements, sales channels, and warranty and return policies. in addition, expansion into other markets may result in increases in research and development expenses and substantial investments in manufacturing capability or technology enhancements. if we fail to successfully expand into new markets with products that we do not currently offer, we may lose business to our competitors or new entrants who offer these products. our vertical integration of head and magnetic media manufacturing makes us dependent on our ability to timely and cost-effectively develop heads and magnetic media with leading technology and overall quality, increasing capital expenditure costs and asset utilization risks for our business. we develop and manufacture a substantial portion of the heads and magnetic media used in the hard drive products we produce. consequently, we are more dependent upon our own development and execution efforts and less able to take advantage of head and magnetic media technologies developed by other manufacturers. technology transition for head and magnetic media designs is critical to increasing our volume production of heads and magnetic media. there can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful in timely and cost-effectively developing and manufacturing heads or magnetic media for products using future technologies. we also may not effectively transition our head or magnetic media design and technology to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields using the technologies necessary to satisfy our customers' product needs, or we may encounter quality problems with the heads or magnetic media we manufacture. if we are unable to timely and cost-effectively develop heads and magnetic media with leading technology and overall quality, our ability to sell our products may be significantly diminished, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. in addition, as a result of our vertical integration of head and magnetic media manufacturing, we make more capital investments and carry a higher percentage of fixed costs than we would if we were not vertically integrated. if our overall level of production decreases for any reason, and we are unable to reduce our fixed costs to match sales, our head or magnetic media manufacturing assets may face underutilization that may impact our operating results. we are therefore subject to additional 19 table of contents risks related to overall asset utilization, including the need to operate at high levels of utilization to drive competitive costs and the need for assured supply of components that we do not manufacture ourselves. in addition, as a result of adverse labor rates or availability, we may be required to increase investments in automation, which may cause our capital expenditures to increase. if we do not adequately address the challenges related to our head or magnetic media manufacturing operations, our ongoing operations could be disrupted, resulting in a decrease in our revenue or profit margins and negatively impacting our operating results. we make significant investments in research and development to improve our technology and develop new technologies, and unsuccessful investments could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. as a leading supplier of hard drives and a major supplier of enterprise solid state drives, we make significant investments to maintain our existing products and to lead innovation and development of new technologies. this strategy requires us to make significant investments in research and development and, in order to remain competitive, we may increase our capital expenditures and expenses above our historical run-rate model. there can be no assurance that these investments will result in viable technologies or products, or if these investments do result in viable technologies or products, that they will be profitable or accepted by the market. significant investments in unsuccessful research and development efforts could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, increased investments in technology could cause our cost structure to fall out of alignment with demand for our products, which would have a negative impact on our financial results. current or future competitors may gain a technology advantage or develop an advantageous cost structure that we cannot match. it may be possible for our current or future competitors to gain an advantage in product technology, manufacturing technology, or process technology, which may allow them to offer products or services that have a significant advantage over the products and services that we offer. advantages could be in capacity, performance, reliability, serviceability, or other attributes. a competitive cost structure for our products, including critical components, labor and overhead, is also critical to the success of our business. we may be at a competitive disadvantage to any companies that are able to gain a technological or cost structure advantage. consolidation within the data storage industry could provide competitive advantages to our competitors. the data storage industry as a whole has experienced consolidation over the past several years through acquisitions, consolidations and decisions by industry players to exit the industry. consolidation across the industry, including by our competitors, may enhance their capacity, abilities and resources and lower their cost structure, causing us to be at a competitive disadvantage. some of our competitors with diversified business units outside of storage products, may over extended periods of time, sell storage products at prices that we cannot profitably match. some of our competitors earn a significant portion of their revenue from business units outside of storage products. because they do not depend solely on sales of storage products to achieve profitability, they may sell storage products at lower prices and operate their storage business unit at a loss over an extended period of time while still remaining profitable overall. in addition, if these competitors can increase sales of non-storage products to the same customers, they may benefit from selling their storage products at lower prices. our operating results may be adversely affected if we cannot successfully compete with the pricing by these companies. if we fail to qualify our products with our customers, it may have a significant adverse impact on our sales and margins. we regularly engage in new product qualification with our customers. once a product is accepted for qualification testing, failures or delays in the qualification process can result in delayed or reduced product sales, reduced product margins caused by having to continue to offer a more costly current generation product, or lost sales to that customer until the next generation of products is introduced. the effect of missing a product qualification opportunity is magnified by the limited number of high volume original equipment manufacturers ("oems"), which continue to consolidate their share of the storage markets. likewise, if product life cycles lengthen, we may have a significantly longer period to wait before we have an opportunity to qualify a new product with a customer, which could reduce our profits because we expect declining gross margins on our current generation products as a result of competitive pressures. 20 table of contents we are subject to risks related to product defects or the unintended use of our products, which could result in product recalls or epidemic failures and could subject us to warranty claims in excess of our warranty provisions or which are greater than anticipated. we warrant the majority of our products for periods of one to five years. we test our products in our manufacturing facilities through a variety of means. however, there can be no assurance that our testing will reveal defects in our products, which may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market. in addition, our products may be used in a manner that is not intended or anticipated by us, resulting in potential liability. accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will occur, which could require a product recall. product recalls can be expensive to implement and, if a product recall occurs during the product's warranty period, we may be required to replace the defective product. moreover, there is a risk that product defects may trigger an epidemic failure clause in a customer agreement. if an epidemic failure occurs, we may be required to replace or refund the value of the defective product and to cover certain other costs associated with the consequences of the epidemic failure. in addition, a product recall or epidemic failure may damage our reputation or customer relationships, and may cause us to lose market share with our customers, including our oem and original design manufacturers ("odm") customers. our standard warranties contain limits on damages and exclusions of liability for consequential damages and for misuse, improper installation, alteration, accident or mishandling while in the possession of someone other than us. we record an accrual for estimated warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. we may incur additional expenses if our warranty provision do not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues related to defects in our products, whether as a result of a product recall, epidemic failure or otherwise. if these additional expenses are significant, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, third-party components or applications that we incorporate or use in our products may contain defects in design or manufacturing that could unexpectedly result in epidemic failures and subject us to liability. because we are dependent on a limited number of qualified suppliers for components, sub-assemblies, equipment, consumables, raw materials, and logistics, a supplier's inability, unwillingness, or failure to support us in a timely manner with goods or services at a quality level and cost acceptable to us can adversely affect our margins, revenues and operating results. we depend on an external supply base for technologies, components, equipment and materials for use in our product design and manufacturing. we also depend on service suppliers for providing technical support for our products. in addition, we use logistics partners to manage our jit (just-in-time) hubs, distribution centers and freight from suppliers to our factories and from our factories to our customers throughout the world. many of these components and much of this equipment must be specifically designed to be compatible for use in our products or for developing and manufacturing our future products, and are only available from a limited number of suppliers, some of whom are our sole-source suppliers. we are therefore dependent on these suppliers to be able and willing to dedicate adequate engineering resources to develop components that can be successfully integrated into our products, technology and equipment that can be used to develop and manufacture our next-generation products efficiently. however, many of the risks that affect us also affect our supply base, including, but not limited to, having single site manufacturing locations based in high risk regions of the world, macro and local economic conditions, shortages of commodity materials, proper management of technology transitions, natural disasters, geo-political risks, compliance with legal requirements, financial instability and exposure to intellectual property and other litigation, including an injunction or other action that could delay shipping. if any of these risks were to affect our suppliers, we could also be adversely affected, especially in the case of products, components or services that are single-sourced. for example, if suppliers are facing increased costs due to the above risks, they may require us to enter into long-term volume agreements to shift the burden of fixed costs to us. further, we work closely with many of our suppliers to develop new technologies and, as a result, we may become subject to litigation from our suppliers or third parties. without a capable and financially stable supply base that has established appropriate relationships within the supply chain and has implemented business processes, strategies and risk management safeguards, we would be unable to develop our products, manufacture them in high volumes, and distribute them to our customers to execute our business plans effectively. as pc demand slows, competition increases from nand and other consumer devices, the total available market for hard disk drives decreases and costs increase, these suppliers may reevaluate their business models. our suppliers may be acquired by our competitors, consolidate, or decide to exit the industry, redirect their investments and increase costs to us, each of which may have an adverse effect on our business and operations. in addition, moving to new technologies may require us to align to, and build, a new supply base, such as nand flash. in the case of nand suppliers, many of which are involved in developing storage products such as ssd that, in some cases, compete with our products. our success in these new product areas may be 21 table of contents dependent on our ability and their willingness to develop close relationships, with preferential agreements. where this cannot be done, our business and operations may be adversely affected. in addition to an external supply base, we also rely on an internal supply chain of heads, media and media substrate. please see the risk factors entitled, a fundamental change in recording technology could result in significant increases in our costs and could put us at a competitive disadvantage and if we do not properly manage technology transitions, our competitiveness and operating results may be negatively affected for a review of some of the risks related to our internal supply. price volatility, shortages of critical materials or components, or use by other industries of materials and components used in the storage industry, may negatively impact our operating results. increases in the cost for certain critical materials and components and oil may increase our costs of manufacturing and transporting our products and key components and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to pass these increased costs on to our customers. shortages of critical components such as dram and nand flash, or materials such as glass substrates, stainless steel, aluminum, nickel, neodymium, ruthenium, platinum or cerium, may increase our costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to find ways to mitigate these increased costs. we or our suppliers acquire certain precious metals and rare earth metals like ruthenium, platinum, neodymium and cerium, which are critical to the manufacture of components in our products from a number of countries, including the people's republic of china. the government of china or any other nation may impose regulations, quotas or embargoes upon these metals that would restrict the worldwide supply of such metals or increase their cost, both of which could negatively impact our operating results until alternative suppliers are sourced. furthermore, if other high volume industries increase their demand for materials or components used in our products, our costs may further increase, which could have an adverse effect on our operating margins. in addition, shortages in other components and materials used in our customers' products could result in a decrease in demand for our products, which would negatively impact our operating results. contractual commitments with component suppliers may result in us paying increased charges and cash advances for such components or may cause us to have inadequate or excess component inventory. to reduce the risk of component shortages, we attempt to provide significant lead times when buying components, which may subject us to cancellation charges if we cancel orders as a result of technology transitions or changes in our component needs. in addition, we may from time to time enter into contractual commitments with component suppliers in an effort to increase and stabilize the supply of those components and enable us to purchase such components at favorable prices. some of these commitments may require us to buy a substantial number of components from the supplier or make significant cash advances to the supplier; however, these commitments may not result in a satisfactory increase or stabilization of the supply of such components. furthermore, as a result of uncertain global economic conditions, our ability to forecast our requirements for these components has become increasingly difficult, therefore increasing the risk that our contractual commitments may not meet our actual supply requirements, which could cause us to have inadequate or excess component inventory and adversely affect our operating results and increase our operating costs. changes in product life cycles could adversely affect our financial results. if product life cycles lengthen, we may need to develop new technologies or programs to reduce our costs on any particular product to maintain competitive pricing for that product. if product life cycles shorten, it may result in an increase in our overall expenses and a decrease in our gross margins, both of which could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, shortening of product life cycles also makes it more difficult to recover the cost of product development before the product becomes obsolete. our failure to recover the cost of product development in the future could adversely affect our operating results. a fundamental change in recording technology could result in significant increases in our costs and could put us at a competitive disadvantage. historically, when the industry experiences a fundamental change in technology, any manufacturer that fails to successfully and timely adjust its designs and processes to accommodate the new technology fails to remain competitive. there are some revolutionary technologies, such as current-perpendicular-to-plane giant magnetoresistance, shingle magnetic recording, heat-assisted magnetic recording, patterned magnetic media and advanced signal processing that if implemented by a competitor on a commercially viable basis ahead of the industry, could put us at a competitive disadvantage. as a result of these technology shifts, we could incur substantial costs in developing new technologies, such as heads, magnetic media, and tools to remain competitive. if we fail to successfully implement these new technologies, or if we are significantly slower than our competitors at implementing new technologies, we may not be able to offer products with capacities that our customers desire, which could harm our operating results. 22 table of contents the difficulty of introducing hard drives with higher levels of areal density and the challenges of reducing other costs may impact our ability to achieve historical levels of cost reduction. storage capacity of the hard drive, as manufactured by us, is determined by the number of disks and each disk's areal density. areal density is a measure of the amount of magnetic bits that can be stored on the recording surface of the disk. generally, the higher the areal density, the more information can be stored on a single platter. higher areal densities require existing head and magnetic media technology to be improved or new technologies developed to accommodate more data on a single disk. historically, we have been able to achieve a large percentage of cost reduction through increases in areal density. increases in areal density mean that the average drive we sell has fewer heads and disks for the same capacity and, therefore, may result in a lower component cost. however, increasing areal density has become more difficult in the storage industry. if we are not able to increase areal density at the same rate as our competitors or at a rate that is expected by our customers, we may be required to include more components in our drives to meet demand without corresponding incremental revenue, which could negatively impact our operating margins and make achieving historical levels of cost reduction difficult or unlikely. additionally, increases in areal density may require us to make further capital expenditures on items such as new test equipment needed as a result of an increased number of gigabytes per platter. our inability to achieve cost reductions could adversely affect our operating results. if we do not properly manage technology transitions, our competitiveness and operating results may be negatively affected. the storage markets in which we offer our products continuously undergo technology transitions which we must anticipate and adapt our products to address in a timely manner. if we fail to implement these new technologies successfully, or if we are slower than our competitors at implementing new technologies, we may not be able to competitively offer products that our customers desire, which could harm our operating results. if we do not properly manage new product development, our competitiveness and operating results may be negatively affected. as advances in computer hardware and software are made, our customers have demanded a more diversified portfolio of products with new and additional features. in some cases, this demand results in investments in new products for a particular market that do not necessarily expand overall market opportunity, which may negatively affect our operating results. in addition, the success of our new product introductions depends on a number of other factors, including difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp; implementing at an acceptable cost product features expected by our customers; market acceptance/qualification; effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand; quality problems or other defects in the early stages of new product introduction and problems with compatibility between our products and those of our customers that were not anticipated in the design of those products; and our ability to increase our software development capability. our business may suffer if we fail to successfully anticipate and manage issues associated with our product development. if we fail to develop and introduce new products that are competitive against alternative storage technologies, our business may suffer. our success depends in part on our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner in order to keep pace with technology advancements. storage technologies like solid-state storage have successfully served mobility markets for products that cannot be serviced using hard drive technology. advances in semiconductor technology have resulted in solid-state storage emerging as a technology that can be competitive with hard drives for high performance needs in advanced digital computing markets such as enterprise servers and storage. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in anticipating and developing new products for the pc and other storage markets in response to competing storage technologies. if our hard drive and solid state products fail to offer a superior value proposition to alternative storage products, we will be at a competitive disadvantage to companies using alternative technology and our business will suffer. 23 table of contents our operations, and those of certain of our suppliers and customers, are concentrated in large, purpose-built facilities, subjecting us to substantial risk of damage or loss if operations at any of these facilities are disrupted. as a result of our cost structure and strategy of vertical integration, we conduct our operations at large, high volume, purpose-built facilities in california and in asia. the facilities of many of our customers, our suppliers and our customers' suppliers are also concentrated in certain geographic locations in asia and elsewhere. a localized health risk affecting our employees at these facilities or the staff of our or our customers' other suppliers, such as the spread of a pandemic influenza, could impair the total volume of our products that we are able to manufacture or sell, which would result in substantial harm to our operating results. similarly, a fire, flood, earthquake, tsunami or other disaster, condition or event such as political instability, civil unrest or a power outage that adversely affects any of these facilities, including access to or from these facilities by employees or logistics operators, would significantly affect our ability to manufacture or sell our products, which would result in a substantial loss of sales and revenue and a substantial harm to our operating results. for example, prior to the 2011 flooding in thailand, all of our internal slider capacity and 60% of our hard drive manufacturing capacity was in thailand. as a result of the flooding in thailand, our facilities were inundated and temporarily shut down. during that period, our ability to manufacture hard drives was significantly constrained, adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. a significant event that impacts any of our manufacturing sites, or the sites of our customers or suppliers, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture or sell our products, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. manufacturing and marketing our products globally subjects us to numerous risks. we are subject to risks associated with our global manufacturing operations and global marketing efforts, including: obtaining requisite governmental permits and approvals; currency exchange rate fluctuations or restrictions; political instability and civil unrest; limited transportation availability, delays, and extended time required for shipping, which risks may be compounded in periods of price declines; higher freight rates; labor challenges, including difficulties finding and retaining talent or responding to labor disputes or disruptions; trade restrictions or higher tariffs; copyright levies or similar fees or taxes imposed in european and other countries; exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations; increasing labor and overhead costs; and loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities. terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business and operating results. the continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility have created uncertainty in the financial and insurance markets and have significantly increased the political, economic and social instability in some of the geographic areas in which we operate. additionally, it is uncertain what impact the reactions to such acts by various governmental agencies and security regulators worldwide will have on shipping costs. acts of terrorism, either domestically or abroad, could create further uncertainties and instability. to the extent this results in disruption or delays of our manufacturing capabilities or shipments of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. 24 table of contents sudden disruptions to the availability of freight lanes could have an impact on our operations. we generally ship our products to our customers, and receive shipments from our suppliers, via air, ocean or land freight. the sudden unavailability or disruption of cargo operations or freight lanes caused by, among other things, labor difficulties or disputes, severe weather patterns or other natural disasters, or political instability or civil unrest, could impact our operating results by impairing our ability to timely and efficiently deliver our products. if we sustain system failures, cyber attacks to our systems or to our products or other data security breaches, we could suffer a loss of revenue and increased costs, exposure to significant liability, reputational harm and other serious negative consequences. we are heavily dependent on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to operate our factories, provide and sell our products and services, fulfill orders, manage inventory and bill, collect and make payments and we are subject to laws, rules and regulations in the u.s. and other countries relating to the collection, use and security of user data. our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, cyber attacks such as computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and other events. our business is also subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism by third parties as well as intentional or unintentional acts by employees. computer programmers, hackers and others may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs or otherwise attack our products, to discover or exploit any security vulnerabilities or breach or compromise the security schemes of our products. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including bugs and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the foregoing security problems could result in, among other consequences, loss or theft of our, our customers' or our business partners' intellectual property, proprietary business information or personally identifiable information. the costs to us to eliminate or address the foregoing security problems and security vulnerabilities before or after a cyber incident could be significant. our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution, or other critical functions. we could lose existing or potential customers in connection with any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products. in addition, breaches of our security measures and the unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data or personal data or information about us, our customers or other third parties, could expose us, our customers, or other affected third parties to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business, operating results and financial condition. further, we rely on third-party data management providers whose possible security problems and security vulnerabilities may have similar effects on us. if we fail to identify, manage, complete and integrate acquisitions, investment opportunities or other significant transactions, it may adversely affect our future results. as part of our growth strategy, we have completed, and we may continue to pursue, acquisitions of, investment opportunities in, or other significant transactions with companies that are complementary to our business. for example, we completed the acquisition of velobit on july 9, 2013, stec on september 12, 2013, and virident on october 17, 2013. in order to pursue this part of our growth strategy successfully, we must continue to identify attractive acquisition or investment opportunities, successfully complete the transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as integration of the acquired company or employees. we may not be able to continue to identify or complete appealing acquisition or investment opportunities given the intense competition for these transactions. even if we identify and complete suitable corporate transactions, we may not be able to successfully address any integration challenges in a timely manner, or at all. failing to successfully integrate or realign our business to take advantage of efficiencies or reduce redundancies of an acquisition may result in not realizing all or any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. in addition, failing to achieve the financial model projections for an acquisition may result in the incurrence of impairment charges and other expenses, both of which could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. please also see the risk factors above for specific risks and uncertainties regarding our acquisition of hgst. 25 table of contents the loss of our key executive management, staff and skilled employees, the inability to hire and integrate new employees or decisions to realign our business could negatively impact our business prospects. our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key management, staff and skilled employees, many of whom would be extremely difficult to replace. global competition for skilled employees in the data storage industry is intense and, as we attempt to move to a position of technology leadership in the storage industry, our business success becomes increasingly dependent on our ability to retain our key staff and skilled employees, to attract, integrate and retain new skilled employees and to make decisions to realign our business to take advantage of efficiencies or reduce redundancies. volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price and the overall markets may adversely affect our ability to retain key staff or skilled employees who have received equity compensation. additionally, because a substantial portion of our key employees' compensation is placed at risk and linked to the performance of our business, when our operating results are negatively impacted, we are at a competitive disadvantage for retaining and hiring key management, staff and skilled employees versus other companies that pay a relatively higher fixed salary. if we lose our existing key management, staff or skilled employees, or are unable to hire and integrate new key management, staff or skilled employees, or if we fail to implement succession plans for our key management or staff, our operating results would likely be harmed. furthermore, if we do not realize the anticipated benefits of our intended realignment after we make decisions regarding our personnel and implement our realignment plans, our operating results could be adversely affected. the nature of our industry and its reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us and our suppliers and customers to the risk of significant litigation. the data storage industry has been characterized by significant litigation. this includes litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights, product liability claims and other types of litigation. litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. moreover, the results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may result in adverse rulings or decisions. we may enter into settlements or be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. as disclosed in part ii, item 8, note 5 in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k on november 18, 2011, a sole arbitrator ruled against us in an arbitration in minnesota. the arbitration involves claims brought by seagate technology llc against us and a now former employee, alleging misappropriation of confidential information and trade secrets. the arbitrator issued an interim award against us in the amount of $525 million plus pre-award interest. on january 23, 2012, the arbitrator issued a final award adding pre-award interest in the amount of $105.4 million, for a total award of $630.4 million. on january 23, 2012, we filed a petition in the district court of hennepin county, minnesota to have the final arbitration award vacated, and a hearing on the petition was held on march 1, 2012. on october 12, 2012, the district court of hennepin county, minnesota vacated, in full, the $630.4 million final arbitration award and ordered that a rehearing be held concerning certain trade secret claims before a new arbitrator. on october 30, 2012, seagate initiated an appeal of the district court's decision with the minnesota court of appeals. on july 22, 2013, the minnesota court of appeals reversed the district court's decision and remanded for entry of an order and judgment confirming the arbitration award. we strongly disagree with the decision of the court of appeals and believe that the district court's decision was correct. on august 20, 2013, the company filed a petition for review with the minnesota supreme court and, on october 15, 2013, the company was informed that the minnesota supreme court granted the company's petition. the appeal before the minnesota supreme court has been fully briefed, and oral argument was held on february 5, 2014. we evaluate notices of alleged patent infringement and notices of patents from patent holders that we receive from time to time. if claims or actions are asserted against us, we may be required to obtain a license or cross-license, modify our existing technology or design a new non-infringing technology. such licenses or design modifications can be extremely costly. in addition, we may decide to settle a claim or action against us, which settlement could be costly. we may also be liable for any past infringement. if there is an adverse ruling against us in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued barring production or sale of any infringing product. it could also result in a damage award equal to a reasonable royalty or lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement, treble damages. any of these results would increase our costs and harm our operating results. in addition, our suppliers and customers are subject to similar risks of litigation, and a material, adverse ruling against a supplier or customer could negatively impact our business. our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients of our business could be copied by competitors. our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary nature of our technology, including non-patentable intellectual property such as our process technology. if a competitor is able to reproduce or otherwise capitalize on our technology despite the safeguards we have in place, it may be difficult, expensive or impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. also, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do u.s. laws. in addition to patent protection of intellectual property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes 26 table of contents to be proprietary and confidential. we rely upon employee, consultant and vendor non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. however, any of our registered or unregistered intellectual property rights may be challenged or exploited by others in the industry, which could harm our operating results. the costs of compliance with state, federal and international legal and regulatory requirements, such as environmental, labor, trade, health, safety and tax regulations, and customers' standards of corporate citizenship could cause an increase in our operating costs. we are subject to, and may become subject to additional, state, federal and international laws and regulations governing our environmental, labor, trade, health, safety and tax practices. these laws and regulations, particularly those applicable to our international operations, are or may be complex, extensive and subject to change. we will need to ensure that we and our component suppliers timely comply with such laws and regulations, which may result in an increase in our operating costs. legislation has been, and may in the future be, enacted in locations where we manufacture or sell our products. in addition, climate change and financial reform legislation is a significant topic of discussion and has generated and may continue to generate federal, international or other regulatory responses in the near future. if we or our component suppliers fail to timely comply with applicable legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our products or we may face increased operating costs as a result of taxes, fines or penalties, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in connection with our compliance with environmental laws and regulations, as well as our compliance with industry environmental initiatives, the standards of business conduct required by some of our customers, and our commitment to sound corporate citizenship in all aspects of our business, we could incur substantial compliance and operating costs and be subject to disruptions to our operations and logistics. in addition, if we were found to be in violation of these laws or noncompliant with these initiatives or standards of conduct, we could be subject to governmental fines, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation and corporate brand which could cause our financial condition or operating results to suffer. conflict minerals regulations may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain components and metals contained in our products. in august 2012, the sec adopted new rules establishing diligence and disclosure requirements regarding the use and source of gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten, commonly referred to as 3tg or conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured by public companies. these new rules require us to determine and report annually whether such 3tg originated from the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country, the first such report was due on june 2, 2014. these new rules could affect our ability to source components that contain 3tg, or 3tg generally, at acceptable prices and could impact the availability of such components or 3tg, since there may be only a limited number of suppliers of conflict free 3tg. our customers, including our oem customers, may require that our products contain only conflict free 3tg, and our revenues and margins may be harmed if we are unable to meet this requirement at a reasonable price, or at all, or are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting this requirement. additionally, we may suffer reputational harm with our customers and other stakeholders if our products are not conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of the 3tg contained in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. we could incur significant costs to the extent that we are required to make changes to products, processes, or sources of supply due to the foregoing requirements or pressures. to the extent that proposed conflict minerals legislation is adopted by the european commission or canada, these risks could increase. violation of applicable laws, including labor or environmental laws, and certain other practices by our suppliers or customers could harm our business. we expect our suppliers and customers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including labor and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required standards of conduct. while our internal operating guidelines promote ethical business practices, we do not control our suppliers or customers or their labor or environmental practices. the violation of labor, environmental or other laws by any of our suppliers or customers, or divergence of a supplier's or customer's business practices from those generally accepted as ethical, could harm our business by: interrupting or otherwise disrupting the shipment of our product components; damaging our reputation; forcing us to find alternate component sources; reducing demand for our products (for example, through a consumer boycott); or 27 table of contents exposing us to potential liability for our suppliers' or customers' wrongdoings. any decisions to reduce or discontinue paying cash dividends to our shareholders or repurchase shares of our common stock pursuant to our previously announced stock repurchase program could cause the market price for our common stock to decline. our payment of quarterly cash dividends and repurchase shares of our common stock pursuant to our stock purchase program will be subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital requirements, and other factors. any reduction or discontinuance by us of the payment of quarterly cash dividends or repurchases of our common stock pursuant to our stock repurchase program could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. moreover, in the event our payment of quarterly cash dividends or repurchases of shares of our common stock are reduced or discontinued, our failure or inability to resume paying cash dividends or repurchasing shares of our common stock at historical levels could result in a lower market valuation of our common stock. fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations may negatively affect our operating results. because we manufacture and sell our products abroad, our revenue, margins, operating costs and cash flows are impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. if the u.s. dollar exhibits sustained weakness against most foreign currencies, the u.s. dollar equivalents of unhedged manufacturing costs could increase because a significant portion of our production costs are foreign-currency denominated. conversely, there would not be an offsetting impact to revenues since revenues are substantially u.s. dollar denominated. additionally, we negotiate and procure some of our component requirements in u.s. dollars from non-u.s. based vendors. if the u.s. dollar weakens against other foreign currencies, some of our component suppliers may increase the price they charge for their components in order to maintain an equivalent profit margin. if this occurs, it would have a negative impact on our operating results. prices for our products are substantially u.s. dollar denominated even when sold to customers that are located outside the united states. therefore, as a substantial portion of our sales are from countries outside the united states, fluctuations in currency exchanges rates, most notably the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against other foreign currencies, contribute to variations in sales of products in impacted jurisdictions and could adversely impact demand and revenue growth. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside the united states. we have attempted to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into short-term, foreign exchange contracts. however, these contracts do not cover our full exposure and can be canceled by the counterparty if currency controls are put in place. increases in our customers' credit risk could result in credit losses and term extensions under existing contracts with customers with credit losses could result in an increase in our operating costs. some of our oem customers have adopted a subcontractor model that requires us to contract directly with companies, such as odms, that provide manufacturing and fulfillment services to our oem customers. because these subcontractors are generally not as well capitalized as our direct oem customers, this subcontractor model exposes us to increased credit risks. our agreements with our oem customers may not permit us to increase our product prices to alleviate this increased credit risk. additionally, as we attempt to expand our oem and distribution channel sales into emerging economies such as brazil, russia, india and china, the customers with the most success in these regions may have relatively short operating histories, making it more difficult for us to accurately assess the associated credit risks. our acquisition of hgst has also resulted in an increase to our customer credit risk given that we service many of the same customers. any credit losses we may suffer as a result of these increased risks, or as a result of credit losses from any significant customer, especially in situations where there are term extensions under existing contracts with such customers, would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. our operating results fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from period to period due to many factors, which may result in a significant decline in our stock price. our quarterly operating results may be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a number of other factors including: the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major customers; our product mix; 28 table of contents changes in the prices of our products; manufacturing delays or interruptions; acceptance by customers of competing products in lieu of our products; variations in the cost of and lead times for components for our products; limited availability of components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; seasonal and other fluctuations in demand for systems that use storage devices often due to technological advances; and availability and rates of transportation. we often ship a high percentage of our total quarterly sales in the third month of the quarter, which makes it difficult for us to forecast our financial results before the end of the quarter. as a result of the above or other factors, our forecast of operating results for the quarter may differ materially from our actual financial results. if our results of operations fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, it could cause an immediate and significant decline in our stock price. we have made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting, and actual results may differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions. we have made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting. the highly technical nature of our products and the rapidly changing market conditions with which we deal means that actual results may differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions. these changes have impacted our financial results in the past and may continue to do so in the future. key estimates and assumptions for us include: price protection adjustments and other sales promotions and allowances on products sold to retailers, resellers and distributors; inventory adjustments for write-down of inventories to lower of cost or market value (net realizable value); testing of goodwill and other long-lived assets for impairment; reserves for doubtful accounts; accruals for product returns; accruals for warranty costs related to product defects; accruals for litigation and other contingencies; liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits; and expensing of stock-based compensation. the market price of our common stock is volatile. the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. factors that may significantly affect the market price of our common stock include the following: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, including those resulting from the seasonality of our business; announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors, which may decrease the volume and profitability of sales of our existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence; new products introduced by us or our competitors; 29 table of contents strategic actions by us or competitors, such as acquisitions and restructurings; periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price erosion resulting from competitive pressures or industry consolidation; developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments or anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us or our competitors; conditions and trends in the hard drive, solid state storage, computer, data and content management, storage and communication industries; contraction in our operating results or growth rates that are lower than our previous high growth-rate periods; failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates or changes in financial estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts relating specifically to us or the storage industry in general; and macroeconomic conditions that affect the market generally and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for our industry. in addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the stock prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the stock of public companies, including us. these broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of shares of our common stock. for example, expectations concerning general economic conditions may cause the stock market to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations from time to time that particularly affect the stock prices of many high technology companies. these fluctuations often appear to be unrelated to the operating performance of the companies. securities class action lawsuits are often brought against companies after periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. a number of such suits have been filed against us in the past, and should any new lawsuits be filed, such matters could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources and management's attention. the resale of shares of common stock issued to hitachi in connection with our acquisition of hgst could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. on march 8, 2012, as partial consideration for our acquisition of hgst, we issued 25 million shares of our common stock to hitachi. on november 6, 2013, hitachi completed a secondary offering of 12.5 million of these shares. we are required by the terms of an investor rights agreement we entered into with hitachi to file a form s-3 registration statement with the securities and exchange commission to register the resale by hitachi of the remaining shares of common stock by a date designated by hitachi in consultation with the company and after reasonable prior notice to the company. sales of these shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. our cash balances and investment portfolio are subject to various risks, any of which could adversely impact our financial position. given the international footprint of our business, we have both domestic and international cash balances and investments. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, security types, and maturities. these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, political, sovereign and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events that affect global financial markets. a material part of our investment portfolio consists of u.s. government securities and bank deposits. if global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods of decline, or if there is a downgrade of the u.s. government credit rating due to an actual or threatened default on government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that our investments may experience an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results. a failure of any of these financial institutions in which deposits exceed fdic limits could also have an adverse impact on our financial position. if our internal controls are found to be ineffective, our stock price may be adversely affected. our most recent evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of june 27, 2014 , in compliance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, our internal control over financial reporting was effective. if our internal control over financial 30 table of contents reporting is found to be ineffective or if we identify a material weakness in our financial reporting in future periods, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which may adversely affect our stock price. restrictive covenants in our credit agreement could restrict current and future operations or limit our flexibility to take certain actions. our credit agreement includes covenants relating to our financial performance and financial position. in addition, our credit agreement restricts our ability to take other actions with respect to our current and future operations, including our ability to incur certain additional indebtedness or consolidate, merge or sell assets. our ability to meet these restrictive covenants may be affected by events that could be beyond our control, and a breach of these restrictive covenants could result in an event of default under the credit agreement, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable and could result in material adverse consequences that negatively impact our business. from time to time we may become subject to income tax audits or similar proceedings, and as a result we may incur additional costs and expenses or owe additional taxes, interest and penalties that may negatively impact our operating results. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and certain foreign jurisdictions, and our determination of our tax liability is subject to review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities. for example, as we have previously disclosed, we are under examination by the internal revenue service for certain fiscal years and in connection with that examination, we received revenue agent reports seeking certain adjustments to income as disclosed in part ii, item 8, note 9 in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. although we believe our tax positions are properly supported, the final timing and resolution of any tax examinations are subject to significant uncertainty and could result in our having to pay amounts to the applicable tax authority in order to resolve examination of our tax positions, which could result in an increase or decrease of our current estimate of unrecognized tax benefits and may negatively impact our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we are subject to risks associated with loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities. portions of our operations are subject to a reduced tax rate or are free of tax under various tax holidays that expire in whole or in part from time to time. many of these holidays may be extended when certain conditions are met, or terminated if certain conditions are not met. if the tax holidays are not extended, or if we fail to satisfy the conditions of the reduced tax rate, then our effective tax rate could increase in the future. in addition, any actions by us to repatriate non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes may impact our effective tax rate. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk disclosure about foreign currency risk although the majority of our transactions are in u.s. dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. we purchase short-term, foreign exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations on certain underlying assets, revenue, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. the purpose of entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. the contract maturity dates do not exceed 12 months. we do not purchase foreign exchange contracts for trading purposes. see part ii, item 8, notes 1 and 12 in the notes to consolidated financial statements, included in this annual report on form 10-k. as of june 27, 2014 , we had outstanding the following purchased foreign exchange contracts (in millions, except weighted average contract rate): 48 table of contents contract amount weighted average contract rate* unrealized gain (loss) foreign exchange contracts: cash flow hedges: japanese yen $ 215 $ 100.81 $ (1 ) malaysian ringgit $ 239 $ 3.29 $ 4 philippine peso $ 44 $ 44.20 1 singapore dollar $ 52 $ 1.26 $ thai baht $ 732 $ 32.66 $ 1 fair value hedges: british pound sterling $ 3 $ 0.59 euro $ 18 $ 0.73 japanese yen $ 83 $ 101.74 philippine peso $ 27 $ 43.81 thai baht $ 52 $ 32.45 _______________ * expressed in units of foreign currency per u.s. dollar in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , total net realized transaction and foreign exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to our consolidated financial statements. disclosure about other market risks variable interest rate risk on january 9, 2014, the outstanding balance on the prior credit facility was repaid, the prior credit facility was terminated, and we entered into the new credit agreement. borrowings under the credit agreement bear interest at a rate equal to, at the option of the applicable borrower, either (a) a customary london interbank offered rate (a eurodollar rate ) or (b) a customary base rate (a base rate ), in each case plus an applicable margin. the applicable margins range from 1.25% to 2.00% with respect to eurodollar rate borrowings and 0.25% to 1.00% with respect to base rate borrowings. the borrowers are also required to pay a commitment fee for the unused portion of the revolving credit facility, which ranges from 0.175% to 0.300% per annum. the applicable margins for borrowings and the commitment fee ranges are determined based upon a leverage ratio of us and our subsidiaries calculated on a consolidated basis. a one percent increase in the variable rate of interest on the term loan and revolving credit facility would increase interest expense by approximately $24 million annually. for additional information, see part ii, item 8, note 3 in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. 49 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors the business, financial condition and operating results of the company can be affected by a number of risks and uncertainties, whether currently known or unknown, any one or more of which could, directly or indirectly, cause the company's actual results of operations and financial condition to vary materially from past, or from anticipated future, results of operations and financial condition. the risks and uncertainties discussed below are not the only ones facing our business, but do represent those risks and uncertainties that we believe are material to us. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or the market price of our common stock. if we fail to realize the anticipated benefits from our acquisition of hgst, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. in connection with obtaining the regulatory approvals required to complete the acquisition of hgst, we agreed to certain conditions required by mofcom, including adopting measures to keep hgst as an independent competitor until mofcom agrees otherwise (with the minimum period being two years from the march 8, 2012 closing date of the acquisition). we worked closely with mofcom to finalize an operations plan that outlines in more detail the conditions of the competitive requirement. compliance with these measures has adversely affected, and we believe will continue to adversely affect, our business and financial conditions in the following ways: limits our ability to integrate the businesses of our hgst and wd subsidiaries (and we do not expect to achieve significant operating expense synergies while the hold separate condition continues to exist); has caused, and could cause further, difficulties in retaining key employees and delays or uncertainties in making decisions about the combined business; has resulted in, and could result in additional, significant costs (including higher capital expenditures relative to our competitors as a result of maintaining separate functions in several areas); and has required, and could require additional, changes in business practices. in march 2014, we submitted an application to mofcom requesting that the regulatory restrictions be lifted. in december 2014, we successfully resolved two non-compliance matters with mofcom, relating to: (1) the organization of a wdc department that included several former hgst employees, and (2) the realignment of the ownership structure of an indirect subsidiary of wdc. we cannot predict whether or when the regulatory restrictions will be wholly or partially lifted or whether we will be able to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisition of hgst even if the restrictions are wholly or partially lifted. adverse global economic conditions and credit market uncertainty could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. adverse global economic conditions and uncertain conditions in the credit market have had, and in the future could have, a significant adverse effect on our company and on the storage industry as a whole. several factors contribute to these conditions and this uncertainty, including, but not limited to, volatility in the financial and real estate markets, cost increases and other macroeconomic factors. some of the risks and uncertainties we face as a result of these conditions include the following: 15 table of contents volatile demand. our direct and indirect customers may delay or reduce their purchases of our products and systems containing our products. in addition, many of our customers rely on credit financing to purchase our products. if negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers' access to credit, product orders may decrease, which could result in lower revenue. likewise, if our suppliers, sub-suppliers and sub-contractors (collectively referred to as suppliers ) face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may be unable to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products. these actions could result in reductions in our revenue and increased operating costs, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. restructuring activities. if demand for our products slows as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions, we may undertake restructuring activities to realign our cost structure with softening demand. the occurrence of restructuring activities could result in impairment charges and other expenses, which could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. credit volatility and loss of receivables. we extend credit and payment terms to some of our customers. in addition to ongoing credit evaluations of our customers' financial condition, we traditionally seek to mitigate our credit risk by purchasing credit insurance on certain of our accounts receivable balances. as a result of the continued uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions, however, we may find it increasingly difficult to be able to insure these accounts receivable. we could suffer significant losses if a customer whose accounts receivable we have not insured, or have underinsured, fails and is unable to pay us. additionally, negative or uncertain global economic conditions increase the risk that if a customer whose accounts receivable we have insured fails, the financial condition of the insurance carrier for such customer account may have also deteriorated such that it cannot cover our loss. a significant loss of an accounts receivable that we cannot recover through credit insurance would have a negative impact on our financial results. impairment charges. negative or uncertain global economic conditions could result in circumstances, such as a sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization or a decrease in our forecasted cash flows such that they are insufficient, indicating that the carrying value of our long-lived assets or goodwill may be impaired. if we are required to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements because an impairment of our long-lived assets or goodwill is determined, our results of operations will be adversely affected. we participate in a highly competitive industry that is subject to declining average selling prices ("asps"), volatile gross margins and significant shifts in market share, all of which could adversely affect our operating results. demand for our devices, software and solutions that we offer to our customers, which we refer to in this item 1a as our products , depends in large part on the demand for systems manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems. the demand for systems has been volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand for our products in any given period. as a result, the storage market has experienced periods of excess capacity, which can lead to liquidation of excess inventories and more intense price competition. if more intense price competition occurs, we may be forced to lower prices sooner and more than expected, which could adversely impact revenue and gross margins. in addition, we compete based on our ability to offer our customers competitive solutions that provide the most current and desired product and service features. we expect that competition will continue to be intense, and there is a risk that our competitors' products may be less costly, provide better performance or include additional features when compared to our products. our asps and gross margins also tend to decline when there is a shift in the mix of product sales, and sales of lower priced products increase relative to those of higher priced products. further, we face potential gross margin pressures resulting from our asps declining more rapidly than our cost of goods sold. in addition, rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and profitability of sales of existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence. these factors, along with others, may result in significant shifts in market share among the industry's major participants, including a substantial decrease in our market share. our failure to accurately forecast market and customer demand for our products, or to quickly adjust to forecast changes, could adversely affect our business and financial results or operating efficiencies. the data storage industry faces difficulties in accurately forecasting market and customer demand for its products. the variety and volume of products we manufacture is based in part on these forecasts. accurately forecasting demand has become increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers in light of the volatility in global economic conditions and industry consolidation, resulting in less availability of historical market data for certain product segments. further, for many of our oems utilizing just-in-time inventory, we do not generally require firm order commitments and instead receive a periodic forecast of requirements, which may prove to be inaccurate. in addition, because our products are designed to be largely 16 table of contents interchangeable with competitors' products, our demand forecasts may be impacted significantly by the strategic actions of our competitors. as forecasting demand becomes more difficult, the risk that our forecasts are not in line with demand increases. if our forecasts exceed actual market demand, then we could experience periods of product oversupply and price decreases, which could impact our financial performance. if market demand increases significantly beyond our forecasts or beyond our ability to add manufacturing capacity, then we may not be able to satisfy customer product needs, possibly resulting in a loss of market share if our competitors are able to meet customer demands. we experience significant sales seasonality and cyclicality, which could cause our operating results to fluctuate. sales of computer systems, storage subsystems, gaming consoles and ce tend to be seasonal and cyclical, and therefore we expect to continue to experience seasonality and cyclicality in our business as we respond to variations in our customers' demand for our products. however, changes in seasonal and cyclical patterns have made it, and could continue to make it, more difficult for us to forecast demand, especially as a result of the current macroeconomic environment. changes in the product or channel mix of our business can also impact seasonal and cyclical patterns, adding complexity in forecasting demand. seasonality and cyclicality also may lead to higher volatility in our stock price. it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which seasonality and cyclicality may affect our stock price or business in future periods because of the rate and unpredictability of product transitions and new product introductions and macroeconomic conditions. our sales to the ce, cloud computing, network attached storage (nas), surveillance and enterprise markets, which have accounted for and may continue accounting for an increasing percentage of our overall revenue, may grow at a slower rate than current estimates or not at all, which could materially adversely impact our operating results. the secular growth of digital data has resulted in a more diversified mix of revenue from the ce, cloud computing, nas, surveillance and enterprise markets. as sales into these markets have become a more significant portion of our revenue, events or circumstances that adversely impact demand in these markets, or our inability to address that demand successfully, could materially adversely impact our operating results. for example, demand in, or our sales to, these markets may be adversely affected by the following: mobile devices. there has been and continues to be a rapid growth in devices that do not contain a hard drive such as tablet computers and smart phones. as tablet computers and smart phones provide many of the same capabilities as pcs, they have displaced or materially affected, and we expect will continue to displace or materially affect, the demand for pcs. if we are not successful in adapting our product offerings to include disk drives or alternative storage solutions that address these devices, demand for our products in these markets may decrease and our financial results could be materially adversely affected. cloud computing. consumers traditionally have stored their data on their pc, often supplemented with personal external storage devices. most businesses also include similar local storage as a primary or secondary storage location. this storage is typically provided by hdds. with cloud computing, applications and data are hosted, accessed and processed through a third-party provider over a broadband internet connection, potentially reducing or eliminating the need for, among other things, significant storage inside the accessing computer. even if we are successful at increasing revenues from sales to cloud computing customers, if we are not successful in manufacturing compelling products to address the cloud computing opportunity, demand for our products in these other markets may decrease and our financial results could be materially adversely affected. demand for cloud computing solutions themselves may be volatile due to differing patterns of technology adoption and innovation, improved data storage efficiency by cloud computing service providers, and concerns about data protection by end users. obsolete inventory. in some cases, products we manufacture for these markets are uniquely configured for a single customer's application, creating a risk of obsolete inventory if anticipated demand is not actually realized. in addition, rapid technological change in our industry increases the risk of inventory obsolescence. macroeconomic conditions. consumer spending has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected in many regions due to negative macroeconomic conditions and high unemployment levels. please see the risk factor entitled adverse global economic conditions and credit market uncertainty could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. for more risks and uncertainties relating to macroeconomic conditions. in addition, demand in these markets also could be negatively impacted by developments in the regulation and enforcement of digital rights management and the emergence of new technologies, such as data deduplication, compression and storage virtualization. if we are not able to respond appropriately, these factors could lead to our customers' storage needs being satisfied at lower prices with lower capacity hard drives or solid-state storage products, thereby decreasing our revenue or 17 table of contents putting us at a disadvantage to competing storage technologies. as a result, even with increasing aggregate demand for digital storage, if we fail to anticipate or timely respond to these developments in the demand for storage, our asps could decline, which could adversely affect our operating results. furthermore, our ability to accurately read and respond to market trends, such as trends relating to the internet or big data, could harm our results. deterioration in the client compute market ("the pc market") has accelerated, which could cause our operating results to suffer. while sales to non-pc markets are becoming a more significant source of revenue, sales to the pc market remain an important part of our business. the pc market, however, has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by the growth of tablet computers, smart phones and similar devices that perform many of the same capabilities as pcs, the lengthening of product life cycles and macroeconomic conditions. we believe that the deterioration of the pc market has accelerated recently, and that this accelerated deterioration may continue or further accelerate, which could cause our operating results to suffer. additionally, if demand in the pc market is worse than expected as a result of these or other conditions, demand for our products in the pc market may decrease at a faster rate and our operating results may be adversely affected. selling to the retail market is an important part of our business, and if we fail to maintain and grow our market share or gain market acceptance of our branded products, our operating results could suffer. selling branded products is an important part of our business, and as our branded products revenue increases as a portion of our overall revenue, our success in the retail market becomes increasingly important to our operating results. our success in the retail market depends in large part on our ability to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation and to expand into and gain market acceptance of our products in multiple channels. we must successfully respond to the rapid change away from traditional advertising media, marketing and sales methods to the use of internet media and advertising, particularly social media, and online sales, or our brand and retail sales could be negatively affected. adverse publicity, whether or not justified, or allegations of product or service quality issues, even if false or unfounded, could tarnish our reputation and cause our customers to choose products offered by our competitors. in addition, the proliferation of new methods of mass communication facilitated by the internet makes it easier for false or unfounded allegations to adversely affect our brand image and reputation. if customers no longer maintain a preference for wd , hgst or g-technology brand products, our operating results may be adversely affected. sales in the distribution channel are important to our business, and if we fail to respond to demand changes in distribution markets or if distribution markets for our products weaken, our operating results could suffer. our distribution customers typically sell to small computer manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators and other resellers. we face significant competition in this channel as a result of limited product qualification programs and a significant focus on price and availability of product. in addition, the pc market is experiencing a shift to notebook and other mobile devices and, as a result, more computing devices are being delivered to the market as complete systems, which could weaken the distribution market. if we fail to respond to changes in demand in the distribution market, our operating results could suffer. additionally, if the distribution market weakens as a result of a slowing pc growth rate, technology transitions or a significant change in consumer buying preference, or if we experience significant price declines due to demand changes in the distribution channel, then our operating results would be adversely affected. loss of market share with or by a key customer, or consolidation among our customer base, could harm our operating results. during the quarter ended july 3, 2015 , 44% of our revenue came from sales to our top 10 customers. these customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial demands on us, including demands on product pricing and on contractual terms, often resulting in the allocation of risk to us as the supplier. our ability to maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is essential to our future performance. if we lose a key customer, if any of our key customers reduce their orders of our products or require us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, if a customer is acquired by one of our competitors or if a key customer suffers financial hardship, our operating results would likely be harmed. additionally, if there is consolidation among our customer base, our customers may be able to command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. in addition, if, as a result of increased leverage, customer pressures require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, we could decide not to sell our products to a particular customer, which could result in a decrease in our revenue. consolidation among our customer base may also lead to reduced demand for our products, replacement of our products by the combined entity with those of our competitors and cancellations of orders, each of which could harm our operating results. 18 table of contents also, the storage ecosystem is constantly evolving, and our traditional customer base is changing. fewer companies now hold greater market share for certain applications and services, such as social media, shopping and streaming media. as a result, the competitive landscape is changing, giving these companies increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. in addition, the changes in our evolving customer base create new selling and distribution patterns to which we must adapt. to remain competitive, we must respond to these changes by ensuring we have proper scale in this evolving market, as well as offer products that meet the technological requirements of this customer base at competitive pricing points. to the extent we are not successful in adequately responding to these changes, our operating results could be harmed. expansion into new markets may increase the complexity of our business, cause us to increase our research and development expenses to develop new products and technologies or cause our capital expenditures to increase, and if we are unable to successfully adapt our business processes and product offerings as required by these new markets, our ability to grow will be adversely affected. to remain a significant supplier in the storage industry and to expand into new markets, we will need to offer a broad range of storage products to our customers. we currently offer a variety of 3.5-inch and 2.5-inch hard drives, solid state drives and systems and other products for the pc, enterprise, data center and other storage markets. as we expand our product lines to sell into new markets, such as our recent entry into active archive systems, the overall complexity of our business may increase at an accelerated rate and we may become subject to different market dynamics. these dynamics may include, among other things, different demand volume, seasonality, product requirements, sales channels, and warranty and return policies. in addition, expansion into other markets may result in increases in research and development expenses and substantial investments in manufacturing capability or technology enhancements. if we fail to successfully expand into new markets with products that we do not currently offer, we may lose business to our competitors or new entrants who offer these products. our vertical integration of head and magnetic media manufacturing makes us dependent on our ability to timely and cost-effectively develop heads and magnetic media with leading technology and overall quality, increasing capital expenditure costs and asset utilization risks for our business. we develop and manufacture a substantial portion of the heads and magnetic media used in the hard drive products we produce. consequently, we are more dependent upon our own development and execution efforts and less able to take advantage of head and magnetic media technologies developed by other manufacturers. technology transition for head and magnetic media designs is critical to increasing our volume production of heads and magnetic media. we may be unsuccessful in timely and cost-effectively developing and manufacturing heads or magnetic media for products using future technologies. we also may not effectively transition our head or magnetic media design and technology to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields using the technologies necessary to satisfy our customers' product needs, or we may encounter quality problems with the heads or magnetic media we manufacture. if we are unable to timely and cost-effectively develop heads and magnetic media with leading technology and overall quality, our ability to sell our products may be significantly diminished, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. in addition, as a result of our vertical integration of head and magnetic media manufacturing, we make more capital investments and carry a higher percentage of fixed costs than we would if we were not vertically integrated. if our overall level of production decreases for any reason, and we are unable to reduce our fixed costs to match sales, our head or magnetic media manufacturing assets may face underutilization that may impact our operating results. we are therefore subject to additional risks related to overall asset utilization, including the need to operate at high levels of utilization to drive competitive costs and the need for assured supply of components that we do not manufacture ourselves. in addition, as a result of adverse labor rates or availability, we may be required to increase investments in automation, which may cause our capital expenditures to increase. if we do not adequately address the challenges related to our head or magnetic media manufacturing operations, our ongoing operations could be disrupted, resulting in a decrease in our revenue or profit margins and negatively impacting our operating results. 19 table of contents we make significant investments in research and development to improve our technology and develop new technologies, and unsuccessful investments or investments that are not cost effective could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. as a leading supplier of hard drives and a major supplier of enterprise ssds, we make significant investments to maintain our existing products and to lead innovation and development of new technologies. this strategy requires us to make significant investments in research and development and, in order to remain competitive, we may increase our capital expenditures and expenses above our historical run-rate model. the current inherent physical limitations associated with storage technologies are resulting in more costly capital expenditures that reduce the cost benefits of technology transitions and could limit our ability to keep pace with reductions in asps. these investments may not result in viable technologies or products, and even if they do result in viable technologies or products, they may not be profitable or accepted by the market. significant investments in unsuccessful or cost-ineffective research and development efforts could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, increased investments in technology could cause our cost structure to fall out of alignment with demand for our products, which would have a negative impact on our financial results. current or future competitors may gain a technology advantage or develop an advantageous cost structure that we cannot match. it may be possible for our current or future competitors to gain an advantage in product technology, manufacturing technology, or process technology, which may allow them to offer products or services that have a significant advantage over the products and services that we offer. advantages could be in capacity, performance, reliability, serviceability, or other attributes. a competitive cost structure for our products, including critical components, labor and overhead, is also critical to the success of our business. we may be at a competitive disadvantage to any companies that are able to gain a technological or cost structure advantage. consolidation within the data storage industry could provide competitive advantages to our competitors. the data storage industry as a whole has experienced consolidation over the past several years through acquisitions, consolidations and decisions by industry players to exit the industry. consolidation across the industry, including by our competitors, may enhance their capacity, abilities and resources and lower their cost structure, causing us to be at a competitive disadvantage. some of our competitors with diversified business units outside of storage products, may, over extended periods of time, sell storage products at prices that we cannot profitably match. some of our competitors earn a significant portion of their revenue from business units outside of storage products. because they do not depend solely on sales of storage products to achieve profitability, they may sell storage products at lower prices and operate their storage business unit at a loss over an extended period of time while still remaining profitable overall. in addition, if these competitors can increase sales of non-storage products to the same customers, they may benefit from selling their storage products at lower prices. our operating results may be adversely affected if we cannot successfully compete with the pricing by these companies. if we fail to qualify our products with our customers, it may have a significant adverse impact on our sales and margins. we regularly engage in new product qualification with our customers. once a product is accepted for qualification testing, failures or delays in the qualification process can result in delayed or reduced product sales, reduced product margins caused by having to continue to offer a more costly current generation product, or lost sales to that customer until the next generation of products is introduced. the effect of missing a product qualification opportunity is magnified by the limited number of high volume oems, which continue to consolidate their share of the storage markets. likewise, if product life cycles lengthen, we may have a significantly longer period to wait before we have an opportunity to qualify a new product with a customer, which could reduce our profits because we expect declining gross margins on our current generation products as a result of competitive pressures. we are subject to risks related to product defects or the unintended use of our products, which could result in product recalls or epidemic failures and could subject us to warranty claims in excess of our warranty provisions or which are greater than anticipated. we warrant the majority of our products for periods of one to five years. we test our products in our manufacturing facilities through a variety of means. however, our testing may fail to reveal defects in our products that may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market. in addition, our products may be used in a manner that is not 20 table of contents intended or anticipated by us, resulting in potential liability. accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will occur, which could require a product recall. product recalls can be expensive to implement. as part of a product recall, we may be required or choose to replace the defective product. moreover, there is a risk that product defects may trigger an epidemic failure clause in a customer agreement. if an epidemic failure occurs, we may be required to replace or refund the value of the defective product and to cover certain other costs associated with the consequences of the epidemic failure. in addition, a product recall or epidemic failure may damage our reputation or customer relationships, and may cause us to lose market share with our customers, including our oem and odm customers. our standard warranties contain limits on damages and exclusions of liability for consequential damages and for misuse, improper installation, alteration, accident or mishandling while in the possession of someone other than us. we record an accrual for estimated warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. we may incur additional expenses if our warranty provision do not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues related to defects in our products, whether as a result of a product recall, epidemic failure or otherwise. if these additional expenses are significant, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, third-party components or applications that we incorporate or use in our products may contain defects in design or manufacturing that could unexpectedly result in epidemic failures and subject us to liability. because we are dependent on a limited number of qualified suppliers for components, sub-assemblies, equipment, consumables, raw materials, and logistics, a supplier's inability, unwillingness, or failure to support us in a timely manner with goods or services at a quality level and cost acceptable to us can adversely affect our margins, revenues and operating results. we depend on an external supply base for technologies, software (including firmware), components, equipment and materials for use in our product design and manufacturing. we also depend on service suppliers for providing technical support for our products. in addition, we use logistics partners to manage our just-in-time hubs, distribution centers and freight from suppliers to our factories and from our factories to our customers throughout the world. many of these components and much of this equipment must be specifically designed to be compatible for use in our products or for developing and manufacturing our future products, and are only available from a limited number of suppliers, some of whom are our sole-source suppliers. we are therefore dependent on these suppliers to be able and willing to dedicate adequate engineering resources to develop components that can be successfully integrated into our products, technology and equipment that can be used to develop and manufacture our next-generation products efficiently. where we rely on a limited number of suppliers or a single supplier, the risk of supplier loss due to industry consolidation is enhanced. many of the risks that affect us also affect our supply base, including, but not limited to, having single site manufacturing locations based in high risk regions of the world, macro and local economic conditions, shortages of commodity materials, proper management of technology transitions, natural disasters, geo-political risks, compliance with legal requirements, financial instability and exposure to intellectual property and other litigation, including an injunction or other action that could delay shipping. if any of these risks were to affect our suppliers, we could also be adversely affected, especially in the case of products, components or services that are single-sourced. for example, if suppliers are facing increased costs due to the above risks, they may require us to enter into long-term volume agreements to shift the burden of fixed costs to us. further, we work closely with many of our suppliers to develop new technologies and, as a result, we may become subject to litigation from our suppliers or third parties. without a capable and financially stable supply base that has established appropriate relationships within the supply chain and has implemented business processes, strategies and risk management safeguards, we would be unable to develop our products, manufacture them in high volumes, and distribute them to our customers to execute our business plans effectively. as pc demand declines, competition increases from nand and other consumer devices, the total available market for hdds decreases and costs increase, these suppliers may reevaluate their business models. our suppliers may be acquired by our competitors, consolidate, or decide to exit the industry, redirect their investments and increase costs to us, each of which may have an adverse effect on our business and operations. in addition, moving to new technologies may require us to align to, and build, a new supply base, such as nand flash. in the case of nand suppliers, many of which are involved in developing storage products such as ssd that, in some cases, compete with our products. our success in these new product areas may be dependent on our ability and their willingness to develop close relationships, with preferential agreements. where this cannot be done, our business and operations may be adversely affected. 21 table of contents in addition to an external supply base, we also rely on an internal supply chain of heads, media and media substrate. please see the risk factors entitled, a fundamental change in storage technologies could result in significant increases in our costs and could put us at a competitive disadvantage, and if we do not properly manage technology transitions, our competitiveness and operating results may be negatively affected, for a review of some of the risks related to our internal supply. price volatility, shortages of critical materials or components, or use by other industries of materials and components used in the storage industry, may negatively impact our operating results. increases in the cost for certain critical materials and components and oil may increase our costs of manufacturing and transporting our products and key components and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to pass these increased costs on to our customers. shortages of critical components such as dram and nand flash, or materials such as glass substrates, stainless steel, aluminum, nickel, neodymium, ruthenium, platinum or cerium, may increase our costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to find ways to mitigate these increased costs. we or our suppliers acquire certain precious metals and rare earth metals like ruthenium, platinum, neodymium and cerium, which are critical to the manufacture of components in our products from a number of countries, including the people's republic of china. the government of china or any other nation may impose regulations, quotas or embargoes upon these metals that would restrict the worldwide supply of such metals or increase their cost, both of which could negatively impact our operating results until alternative suppliers are sourced. furthermore, if other high volume industries increase their demand for materials or components used in our products, our costs may further increase, which could have an adverse effect on our operating margins. in addition, shortages in other components and materials used in our customers' products could result in a decrease in demand for our products, which would negatively impact our operating results. contractual commitments with component suppliers may result in us paying increased charges and cash advances for such components or may cause us to have inadequate or excess component inventory. to reduce the risk of component shortages, we attempt to provide significant lead times when buying components, which may subject us to cancellation charges if we cancel orders as a result of technology transitions or changes in our component needs. in addition, we may from time to time enter into contractual commitments with component suppliers in an effort to increase and stabilize the supply of those components and enable us to purchase such components at favorable prices. some of these commitments may require us to buy a substantial number of components from the supplier or make significant cash advances to the supplier; however, these commitments may not result in a satisfactory increase or stabilization of the supply of such components. furthermore, as a result of uncertain global economic conditions, our ability to forecast our requirements for these components has become increasingly difficult, therefore increasing the risk that our contractual commitments may not meet our actual supply requirements, which could cause us to have inadequate or excess component inventory and adversely affect our operating results and increase our operating costs. changes in product life cycles could adversely affect our financial results. if product life cycles lengthen, we may need to develop new technologies or programs to reduce our costs on any particular product to maintain competitive pricing for that product. longer product life cycles could also restrict our ability to transition customers to our newer products in a timely manner, or at all, negatively impacting our ability to recoup our significant research and development investments to improve our existing technology and develop new technologies. if product life cycles shorten, it may result in an increase in our overall expenses and a decrease in our gross margins, both of which could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, shortening of product life cycles also makes it more difficult to recover the cost of product development before the product becomes obsolete. our failure to recover the cost of product development in the future could adversely affect our operating results. a fundamental change in storage technologies could result in significant increases in our costs and could put us at a competitive disadvantage. historically, when the industry experiences a fundamental change in storage technologies, any manufacturer that fails to successfully and timely adjust its designs and processes to accommodate the new technology fails to remain competitive. there are some revolutionary technologies, such as current-perpendicular-to-plane giant magnetoresistance, shingle magnetic recording, heat-assisted magnetic recording, patterned magnetic media and advanced signal processing that if implemented by a competitor on a commercially viable basis ahead of the industry, could put us at a competitive disadvantage. as a result of these technology shifts, we could incur substantial costs in developing new technologies, such as heads, magnetic media, and tools to remain competitive. if we fail to successfully implement these new technologies, or if we are significantly slower than our competitors at implementing new technologies, we may not be able to offer products with capacities that our customers desire, which could harm our operating results. 22 table of contents the difficulty of introducing hard drives with higher levels of areal density and the challenges of reducing other costs may impact our ability to achieve historical levels of cost reduction. storage capacity of the hard drive, as manufactured by us, is determined by the number of disks and each disk's areal density. areal density is a measure of the amount of magnetic bits that can be stored on the recording surface of the disk. generally, the higher the areal density, the more information can be stored on a single platter. higher areal densities require existing head and magnetic media technology to be improved or new technologies developed to accommodate more data on a single disk. historically, we have been able to achieve a large percentage of cost reduction through increases in areal density. increases in areal density mean that the average drive we sell has fewer heads and disks for the same capacity and, therefore, may result in a lower component cost. however, increasing areal density has become more difficult in the storage industry. if we are not able to increase areal density at the same rate as our competitors or at a rate that is expected by our customers, we may be required to include more components in our drives to meet demand without corresponding incremental revenue, which could negatively impact our operating margins and make achieving historical levels of cost reduction difficult or unlikely. additionally, increases in areal density may require us to make further capital expenditures on items such as new test equipment needed as a result of an increased number of gigabytes per platter. our inability to achieve cost reductions could adversely affect our operating results. if we do not properly manage technology transitions, our competitiveness and operating results may be negatively affected. the storage markets in which we offer our products continuously undergo technology transitions that we must anticipate and adapt our products to address in a timely manner. if we fail to implement new technologies successfully, or if we are slower than our competitors at implementing new technologies, we may not be able to competitively offer products that our customers desire, which could harm our operating results. if we do not properly manage new product development, our competitiveness and operating results may be negatively affected. as advances in computer hardware and software are made, our customers have demanded a more diversified portfolio of products with new and additional features. in some cases, this demand results in investments in new products for a particular market that do not necessarily expand overall market opportunity, which may negatively affect our operating results. in addition, the success of our new product introductions depends on a number of other factors, including: difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp; implementing at an acceptable cost product features expected by our customers; market acceptance/qualification; effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand; quality problems or other defects in the early stages of new product introduction and problems with compatibility between our products and those of our customers that were not anticipated in the design of those products; and our ability to increase our software development capability. in particular, as part of our growth strategy, we have made significant investments in active archive systems, which are designed to enable organizations to rapidly access massive long-term data stores. for example, our acquisition of amplidata was partially driven by our strategy to expand in this area. we expect to continue to make significant investments in active archive systems. our active archive systems may fail to gain market acceptance, or the market for active archive systems may not grow as we anticipate. we have also seen, and anticipate continuing to see, an increase in customers requesting that we develop products, including software associated with our products, that incorporate open source software elements and operate in an open source environment. adapting to this demand may cause product delays, placing us at a competitive disadvantage. open source products could also reduce our capability for product differentiation or innovation and our affected products could be diminished to commodity status, which we expect would place increased downward pressure on our margins. if we fail to successfully anticipate and manage issues associated with our product development generally, our business may suffer. 23 table of contents if we fail to develop and introduce new products that are competitive against alternative storage technologies, our business may suffer. our success depends in part on our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner in order to keep pace with technology advancements. newer storage technologies have successfully served mobility markets for products that cannot be serviced using traditional storage technologies. advances in semiconductor technology have resulted in other emerging technologies that can be competitive with traditional storage technologies. for example, ssds have significantly increased their penetration in notebook pcs in recent years. we believe that ssds will increasingly replace hdds in notebook and desktop pcs, and we currently do not offer client ssd solutions. we also expect that ssd penetration will increase in enterprise areas requiring high performance needs in advanced digital computing. we may be unsuccessful in anticipating and developing new and improved products for the client, enterprise and other storage markets in response to competing technologies. if our hard drive and solid state products fail to offer a superior value proposition to alternative storage products, we will be at a competitive disadvantage and our business will suffer. our operations, and those of certain of our suppliers and customers, are concentrated in large, purpose-built facilities, subjecting us to substantial risk of damage or loss if operations at any of these facilities are disrupted. as a result of our cost structure and strategy of vertical integration, we conduct our operations at large, high volume, purpose-built facilities in california and throughout asia. the facilities of many of our customers, our suppliers and our customers' suppliers are also concentrated in certain geographic locations throughout asia and elsewhere. a localized health risk affecting our employees at these facilities or the staff of our or our customers' other suppliers, such as the spread of a pandemic influenza, could impair the total volume of our products that we are able to manufacture or sell, which would result in substantial harm to our operating results. similarly, a fire, flood, earthquake, tsunami or other natural disaster, condition or event such as political instability, civil unrest or a power outage that adversely affects any of these facilities, including access to or from these facilities by employees or logistics operators, would significantly affect our ability to manufacture or sell our products, which would result in a substantial loss of sales and revenue and a substantial harm to our operating results. for example, prior to the 2011 flooding in thailand, all of wd's internal slider capacity and 60% of wd's hard drive manufacturing capacity was in thailand. as a result of the flooding in thailand, wd's facilities were inundated and temporarily shut down. during that period, wd's ability to manufacture hard drives was significantly constrained, adversely affecting wd's business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the concentration of our manufacturing sites could exacerbate the negative impacts resulting from localized labor unrest or other employment issues. a significant event that impacts any of our manufacturing sites, or the sites of our customers or suppliers, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture or sell our products, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. manufacturing, marketing and selling our products globally subjects us to numerous risks. we are subject to risks associated with our global manufacturing operations and global marketing and sales efforts, as well as risks associated with our utilization of and reliance on contract manufacturers, including: obtaining requisite governmental permits and approvals; currency exchange rate fluctuations or restrictions; political instability and civil unrest; limited transportation availability, delays, and extended time required for shipping, which risks may be compounded in periods of price declines; higher freight rates; labor challenges, including difficulties finding and retaining talent or responding to labor disputes or disruptions; trade restrictions or higher tariffs; copyright levies or similar fees or taxes imposed in european and other countries; exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations; increasing labor and overhead costs; and 24 table of contents loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities. terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business and operating results. the continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility have created uncertainty in the financial and insurance markets and have significantly increased the political, economic and social instability in some of the geographic areas in which we, our suppliers or our customers operate. additionally, it is uncertain what impact the reactions to such acts by various governmental agencies and security regulators worldwide will have on shipping costs. acts of terrorism, either domestically or abroad, could create further uncertainties and instability. to the extent this results in disruption or delays of our manufacturing capabilities or shipments of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. sudden disruptions to the availability of air transportation, or ocean or land freight lanes, could have an impact on our operations. we generally ship our products to our customers, and receive shipments from our suppliers, via air, ocean or land freight. the sudden unavailability or disruption of air transportation, cargo operations or ocean, rail or truck freight lanes caused by, among other things, labor difficulties or disputes, severe weather patterns or other natural disasters, or political instability or civil unrest, could impact our operating results by impairing our ability to timely and efficiently deliver our products. if our technology infrastructure, systems or products are compromised, damaged or interrupted by cyber attacks, data security breaches, other security problems, security vulnerabilities, design defects, or sustain system failures, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. we experience cyber attacks of varying degrees on our technology infrastructure and systems and, as a result, unauthorized parties have obtained in the past, and may in the future obtain, access to our computer systems and networks. cyber attacks can include computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, worms, and other malicious software programs or other attacks, covert introduction of malware to computers and networks, impersonation of authorized users, and efforts to discover and exploit any security vulnerabilities or security weaknesses, as well as intentional or unintentional acts by employees or other insiders with access privileges, intentional acts of vandalism by third parties and sabotage. we believe cyber attack attempts are increasing in number and that cyber attackers are developing increasingly sophisticated systems and means to not only attack systems, but also to evade detection or to obscure their activities. our products are also targets for cyber attacks. while some of our products contain encryption or security algorithms to protect third-party content or user-generated data stored on our products, these products could still be hacked or the encryption schemes could be compromised, breached, or circumvented by motivated and sophisticated attackers. in addition, our technology infrastructure and systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss and telecommunications failures. further, our products contain sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that may contain security problems, security vulnerabilities, or defects in design or manufacture, including bugs and other problems that could interfere with the intended operation of our products. if efforts to breach our infrastructure, systems or products are successful or we are unable to protect against these risks, we could suffer interruptions, delays, or cessation of operations of our systems, and loss or misuse of proprietary or confidential information, intellectual property, or sensitive or personal information. breaches of our infrastructure, systems or products could also cause our customers and other affected third parties to suffer loss or misuse of proprietary or confidential information, intellectual property, or sensitive or personal information, and could harm our relationships with customers and other third parties. as a result, we could experience additional costs, indemnification claims, litigation, and damage to our brand and reputation. all of these consequences could harm our reputation and our business and materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the u.s. and other countries relating to the collection, use, sharing, and security of third-party data including personal data, and our failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could subject us to proceedings by governmental entities or others and cause us to incur penalties, significant legal liability, or loss of customers, loss of revenue, and reputational harm . we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the u.s. and other countries relating to the collection, use, and security of third-party data including data that relates to or identifies an individual person. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, and among us, our subsidiaries and other 25 table of contents parties with which we have commercial relations. our possession and use of third-party data including personal data in conducting our business subjects us to legal and regulatory burdens that may require us to notify vendors, customers or employees or other parties with which we have commercial relations of a data security breach and to respond to regulatory inquiries and to enforcement proceedings. global privacy and data protection legislation, enforcement, and policy activity in this area are rapidly expanding and evolving, and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. compliance requirements and even our inadvertent failure to comply with applicable laws may cause us to incur substantial costs, subject us to proceedings by governmental entities or others, and cause us to incur penalties or other significant legal liability, or lead us to change our business practices. if we fail to identify, manage, complete and integrate acquisitions, investment opportunities or other significant transactions, which are a key part of our growth strategy, it may adversely affect our future results. we seek to be an industry-leading developer, manufacturer and provider of innovative storage solutions, balancing our core hard drive business with growing investments in newer areas that we believe will provide us with higher growth opportunities. acquisitions of, investment opportunities in, or other significant transactions with companies that are complementary to our business are a key part of our overall business strategy. for example, we completed the acquisitions of amplidata in march 2015, virident in october 2013, and stec in september 2013. in order to pursue this part of our growth strategy successfully, we must continue to identify attractive acquisition or investment opportunities, successfully complete the transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as integration of the acquired company or employees. we may not be able to continue to identify or complete appealing acquisition or investment opportunities given the intense competition for these transactions. even if we identify and complete suitable corporate transactions, we may not be able to successfully address any integration challenges in a timely manner, or at all. failing to successfully integrate or realign our business to take advantage of efficiencies or reduce redundancies of an acquisition may result in not realizing all or any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. in addition, failing to achieve the financial model projections for an acquisition may result in the incurrence of impairment charges and other expenses, both of which could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. furthermore, we may agree to provide continuing service obligations or enter into other agreements in order to obtain certain regulatory approvals of our corporate transactions, and failure to satisfy these additional obligations could result in our failing to obtain regulatory approvals or the imposition of additional obligations on us, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. please also see the risk factor entitled if we fail to realize the anticipated benefits from our acquisition of hgst on a timely basis, or at all, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. our strategic relationships subject us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have entered into strategic relationships with various partners to reduce the risk associated with relying on external suppliers for technologies, components, equipment and materials for use in our product design and manufacturing. please see the risk factor entitled because we are dependent on a limited number of qualified suppliers for components, sub-assemblies, equipment, consumables, raw materials, and logistics, a supplier's inability, unwillingness, or failure to support us in a timely manner with goods or services at a quality level and cost acceptable to us can adversely affect our margins, revenues and operating results, for a further description of the risks associated with our reliance on external suppliers. these strategic relationships are subject to various risks that could adversely affect the value of our investments and our results of operations. these risks include the following: our interests could diverge from our partners' interests or we may not be able to agree with co-venturers on ongoing activities, or on the amount, timing or nature of further investments in the relationship we may experience difficulties and delays in ramping production at, and transferring technology to, such ventures; our control over the operations of our ventures is limited; due to financial constraints, our co-venturers may be unable to meet their commitments to us or may pose credit risks for our transactions with them; due to differing business models or long-term business goals, our partners may decide not to join us in funding capital investment by our ventures, which may result in higher levels of cash expenditures by us; we may lose the rights to technology or products being developed by the strategic relationship, including if our partner is acquired by another company, files for bankruptcy or experiences financial or other losses; 26 table of contents we may experience difficulties or delays in collecting amounts due to us from our co-venturers; the terms of our arrangements may turn out to be unfavorable; and changes in tax, legal or regulatory requirements may necessitate changes in the agreements with our co-venturers. if our strategic relationships are unsuccessful, our business, results of operations or financial condition may be adversely affected. the loss of our key executive management, staff and skilled employees, the inability to hire and integrate new employees or decisions to realign our business could negatively impact our business prospects. our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key management, staff and skilled employees, many of whom would be extremely difficult to replace. global competition for skilled employees in the data storage industry is intense and, as we attempt to move to a position of technology leadership in the storage industry, our business success becomes increasingly dependent on our ability to retain our key staff and skilled employees, to attract, integrate and retain new skilled employees and to make decisions to realign our business to take advantage of efficiencies or reduce redundancies. volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price and the overall markets may adversely affect our ability to retain key staff or skilled employees who have received equity compensation. additionally, because a substantial portion of our key employees' compensation is placed at risk and linked to the performance of our business, when our operating results are negatively impacted, we are at a competitive disadvantage for retaining and hiring key management, staff and skilled employees versus other companies that pay a relatively higher fixed salary. if we lose our existing key management, staff or skilled employees, or are unable to hire and integrate new key management, staff or skilled employees, or if we fail to implement succession plans for our key management or staff, our operating results would likely be harmed. furthermore, if we do not realize the anticipated benefits of our intended realignment after we make decisions regarding our personnel and implement our realignment plans, our operating results could be adversely affected. the nature of our industry and its reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us and our suppliers and customers to the risk of significant litigation. the data storage industry has been characterized by significant litigation. this includes litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights, product liability claims and other types of litigation. intellectual property risks increase when we enter into new markets where we have little or no intellectual property protection as a defense against litigation. litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. moreover, the results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may result in adverse rulings or decisions. we may enter into settlements or be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. as disclosed in part ii, item 8, note 5 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k, in relation to our litigation matter with seagate, on october 8, 2014, the minnesota supreme court affirmed the decision of the minnesota court of appeals, and as a result on october 14, 2014, we paid seagate $773.4 million to satisfy the full amount of the final arbitration award plus interest accrued through october 13, 2014. we evaluate notices of alleged patent infringement and notices of patents from patent holders that we receive from time to time. if claims or actions are asserted against us, we may be required to obtain a license or cross-license, modify our existing technology or design a new non-infringing technology. such licenses or design modifications can be extremely costly. in addition, we may decide to settle a claim or action against us, which settlement could be costly. we may also be liable for any past infringement. if there is an adverse ruling against us in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued barring production or sale of any infringing product. it could also result in a damage award equal to a reasonable royalty or lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement, treble damages. any of these results would increase our costs and harm our operating results. in addition, our suppliers and customers are subject to similar risks of litigation, and a material, adverse ruling against a supplier or customer could negatively impact our business. our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients of our business could be copied by competitors. our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary nature of our technology, including non-patentable intellectual property such as our process technology. if a competitor is able to reproduce or otherwise capitalize on our technology despite the safeguards we have in place, it may be difficult, expensive or impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. also, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do u.s. laws. in addition to patent protection of intellectual property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. we rely upon employee, consultant and vendor non-disclosure agreements and contractual 27 table of contents provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. however, any of our registered or unregistered intellectual property rights may be challenged or exploited by others in the industry, which could harm our operating results. the costs of compliance with state, federal and international legal and regulatory requirements, such as environmental, labor, trade, health, safety, anti-corruption and tax regulations, customers' standards of corporate citizenship, and industry and coalition standards, such as those established by the electronics industry citizenship coalition, could cause an increase in our operating costs. we are subject to, and may become subject to additional, state, federal and international laws and regulations governing our environmental, labor, trade, health, safety, anti-corruption and tax practices. these laws and regulations, particularly those applicable to our international operations, are or may be complex, extensive and subject to change. we will need to ensure that we and our suppliers and partners timely comply with such laws and regulations, which may result in an increase in our operating costs. legislation has been, and may in the future be, enacted in locations where we manufacture or sell our products. in addition, climate change and financial reform legislation is a significant topic of discussion and has generated and may continue to generate federal, international or other regulatory responses in the near future. if we or our suppliers or partners fail to timely comply with applicable legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our products or we may face increased operating costs as a result of taxes, fines or penalties, or legal liability and reputational damage, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in connection with our compliance with environmental laws and regulations, as well as our compliance with industry and coalition environmental initiatives, such as those established by the electronics industry citizenship coalition, the standards of business conduct required by some of our customers, and our commitment to sound corporate citizenship in all aspects of our business, we could incur substantial compliance and operating costs and be subject to disruptions to our operations and logistics. in addition, if we were found to be in violation of these laws or noncompliant with these initiatives or standards of conduct, we could be subject to governmental fines, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation and corporate brand which could cause our financial condition or operating results to suffer. conflict minerals regulations may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain components and metals contained in our products. in august 2012, the sec adopted new rules establishing diligence and disclosure requirements regarding the use and source of gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten, commonly referred to as 3tg or conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured by public companies. these rules require us to determine and report annually whether such 3tg originated from the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country. these rules could affect our ability to source components that contain 3tg, or 3tg generally, at acceptable prices and could impact the availability of such components or 3tg, since there may be only a limited number of suppliers of conflict free 3tg. our customers, including our oem customers, may require that our products contain only conflict free 3tg, and our revenues and margins may be harmed if we are unable to meet this requirement at a reasonable price, or at all, or are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting this requirement. additionally, we may suffer reputational harm with our customers and other stakeholders if our products are not conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of the 3tg contained in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. we could incur significant costs to the extent that we are required to make changes to products, processes, or sources of supply due to the foregoing requirements or pressures. to the extent that proposed conflict minerals legislation is adopted by the european commission or canada, these risks could increase. violation of applicable laws, including labor or environmental laws, and certain other practices by our suppliers or customers could harm our business. we expect our suppliers and customers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including labor and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required standards of conduct. while our internal operating guidelines promote ethical business practices, we do not control our suppliers or customers or their labor or environmental practices. the violation of labor, environmental or other laws by any of our suppliers or customers, or divergence of a supplier's or customer's business practices from those generally accepted as ethical, could harm our business by: interrupting or otherwise disrupting the shipment of our product components; damaging our reputation; forcing us to find alternate component sources; 28 table of contents reducing demand for our products (for example, through a consumer boycott); or exposing us to potential liability for our suppliers' or customers' wrongdoings. any decisions to reduce or discontinue paying cash dividends to our shareholders or repurchase shares of our common stock pursuant to our previously announced stock repurchase program could cause the market price for our common stock to decline. we may reduce or discontinue repurchases of our common stock as we deem appropriate and as market conditions allow. we may modify, suspend or cancel our cash dividend policy in any manner and at any time. any reduction or discontinuance by us of the payment of quarterly cash dividends or repurchases of our common stock pursuant to our stock repurchase program could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. moreover, in the event our payment of quarterly cash dividends or repurchases of shares of our common stock are reduced or discontinued, our failure or inability to resume paying cash dividends or repurchasing shares of our common stock at historical levels could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations may negatively affect our operating results. because we manufacture and sell our products abroad, our revenue, margins, operating costs and cash flows are impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. if the u.s. dollar exhibits sustained weakness against most foreign currencies, the u.s. dollar equivalents of unhedged manufacturing costs could increase because a significant portion of our production costs are foreign-currency denominated. conversely, there would not be an offsetting impact to revenues since revenues are substantially u.s. dollar denominated. additionally, we negotiate and procure some of our component requirements in u.s. dollars from non-u.s. based vendors. if the u.s. dollar weakens against other foreign currencies, some of our component suppliers may increase the price they charge for their components in order to maintain an equivalent profit margin. if this occurs, it would have a negative impact on our operating results. prices for our products are substantially u.s. dollar denominated, even when sold to customers that are located outside the united states. therefore, as a substantial portion of our sales are from countries outside the united states, fluctuations in currency exchanges rates, most notably the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against other foreign currencies, contribute to variations in sales of products in impacted jurisdictions and could adversely impact demand and revenue growth. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside the united states. we attempt to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into short-term, foreign exchange contracts. however, these contracts do not cover our full exposure and can be canceled by the counterparty if currency controls are put in place. increases in our customers' credit risk could result in credit losses and term extensions under existing contracts with customers with credit losses could result in an increase in our operating costs. some of our oem customers have adopted a subcontractor model that requires us to contract directly with companies, such as odms, that provide manufacturing and fulfillment services to our oem customers. because these subcontractors are generally not as well capitalized as our direct oem customers, this subcontractor model exposes us to increased credit risks. our agreements with our oem customers may not permit us to increase our product prices to alleviate this increased credit risk. additionally, as we attempt to expand our oem and distribution channel sales into emerging economies such as brazil, russia, india and china, the customers with the most success in these regions may have relatively short operating histories, making it more difficult for us to accurately assess the associated credit risks. our acquisition of hgst has also resulted in an increase to our customer credit risk given that we service many of the same customers. any credit losses we may suffer as a result of these increased risks, or as a result of credit losses from any significant customer, especially in situations where there are term extensions under existing contracts with such customers, would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. 29 table of contents our operating results fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from period to period due to many factors, which may result in a significant decline in our stock price. our quarterly operating results may be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a number of other factors including: the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major customers; our product mix; changes in the asps of our products; manufacturing delays or interruptions; acceptance by customers of competing products in lieu of our products; variations in the cost of and lead times for components for our products; limited availability of components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; seasonal and other fluctuations in demand for systems that use storage devices often due to technological advances; and availability and rates of transportation. we often ship a high percentage of our total quarterly sales in the third month of the quarter, which makes it difficult for us to forecast our financial results before the end of the quarter. as a result of the above or other factors, our forecast of operating results for the quarter may differ materially from our actual financial results. if our results of operations fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, it could cause an immediate and significant decline in our stock price. we have made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting, and actual results may differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions. we have made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting. the highly technical nature of our products and the rapidly changing market conditions with which we deal means that actual results may differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions. these changes have impacted our financial results in the past and may continue to do so in the future. key estimates and assumptions for us include: price protection adjustments and other sales promotions and allowances on products sold to retailers, resellers and distributors; inventory adjustments for write-down of inventories to lower of cost or market value (net realizable value); testing of goodwill and other long-lived assets for impairment; reserves for doubtful accounts; accruals for product returns; accruals for warranty costs related to product defects; accruals for litigation and other contingencies; liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits; and expensing of stock-based compensation. 30 table of contents the market price of our common stock is volatile. the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. factors that may significantly affect the market price of our common stock include the following: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, including those resulting from the seasonality of our business; announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors, which may decrease the volume and profitability of sales of our existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence; new products introduced by us or our competitors; strategic actions by us or competitors, such as acquisitions and restructurings; periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price erosion resulting from competitive pressures or industry consolidation; developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments or anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us or our competitors; conditions and trends in the hard drive, solid state storage, computer, data and content management, storage and communication industries; contraction in our operating results or growth rates that are lower than our previous high growth-rate periods; failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates or changes in financial estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts relating specifically to us or the storage industry in general; and macroeconomic conditions that affect the market generally and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for our industry. in addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the stock prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the stock of public companies, including us. these broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of shares of our common stock. for example, expectations concerning general economic conditions may cause the stock market to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations from time to time that particularly affect the stock prices of many high technology companies. these fluctuations often appear to be unrelated to the operating performance of the companies. securities class action lawsuits are often brought against companies after periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. a number of such suits have been filed against us in the past, and should any new lawsuits be filed, such matters could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources and management's attention. the resale of shares of common stock issued to hitachi, ltd. ("hitachi") in connection with our acquisition of hgst could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. on march 8, 2012, as partial consideration for our acquisition of hgst, we issued 25 million shares of our common stock to hitachi. on each of november 6, 2013 and november 13, 2014, hitachi completed a secondary offering of 12.5 million and 6.25 million, respectively, of these shares. future sales of the remaining 6.25 million shares of our common stock held by hitachi could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 31 table of contents our cash balances and investment portfolio are subject to various risks, any of which could adversely impact our financial position. given the international footprint of our business, we have both domestic and international cash balances and investments. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, security types, and maturities. these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, political, sovereign and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events that affect global financial markets. a material part of our investment portfolio consists of u.s. government securities and bank deposits. if global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods of decline, or if there is a downgrade of the u.s. government credit rating due to an actual or threatened default on government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that our investments may experience an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results. a failure of any of these financial institutions in which deposits exceed fdic limits could also have an adverse impact on our financial position. in addition, i f we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to fund acquisitions, pay dividends, or repurchase shares of our common stock, we may choose or be required to increase our borrowings, if available, or to repatriate funds to the united states at a substantial tax cost. if our internal controls are found to be ineffective, our stock price may be adversely affected. our most recent evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of july 3, 2015, in compliance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, our internal control over financial reporting was effective. if our internal control over financial reporting is found to be ineffective or if we identify a material weakness in our financial reporting in future periods, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which may adversely affect our stock price. restrictive covenants in our credit agreement could restrict current and future operations or limit our flexibility to take certain actions. our credit agreement includes covenants relating to our financial performance and financial position. in addition, our credit agreement restricts our ability to take other actions with respect to our current and future operations, including our ability to incur certain additional indebtedness or consolidate, merge or sell assets. our ability to meet these restrictive covenants may be affected by events that could be beyond our control, and a breach of these restrictive covenants could result in an event of default under the credit agreement, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable and could result in material adverse consequences that negatively impact our business. from time to time we may become subject to income tax examinations or similar proceedings, and as a result we may incur additional costs and expenses or owe additional taxes, interest and penalties that may negatively impact our operating results. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and certain foreign jurisdictions, and our determination of our tax liability is subject to review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities. for example, as we have previously disclosed, we are under examination by the internal revenue service for certain fiscal years and in connection with that examination, we received notice of proposed adjustments seeking certain adjustments to income as disclosed in part ii, item 8, note 9 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. although we believe our tax positions are properly supported, the final timing and resolution of any tax examinations are subject to significant uncertainty and could result in our having to pay amounts to the applicable tax authority in order to resolve examination of our tax positions, which could result in an increase or decrease of our current estimate of unrecognized tax benefits and may negatively impact our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we are subject to risks associated with loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities. portions of our operations are subject to a reduced tax rate or are free of tax under various tax holidays that expire in whole or in part from time to time. many of these holidays may be extended when certain conditions are met, or terminated if certain conditions are not met. if the tax holidays are not extended, or if we fail to satisfy the conditions of the reduced tax rate, then our effective tax rate could increase in the future. in addition, any actions by us to repatriate non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes may impact our effective tax rate. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk disclosure about foreign currency risk although the majority of our transactions are in u.s. dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. we purchase short-term, foreign exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. the purpose of entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. the contract maturity dates do not exceed 12 months. we do not purchase foreign exchange contracts for trading purposes. see part ii, item 8, notes 1 and 12 in the notes to consolidated financial statements, included in this annual report on form 10-k. 49 table of contents as of july 3, 2015 , we had outstanding the following purchased foreign exchange contracts (in millions, except weighted average contract rate): contract amount weighted average contract rate* unrealized gain (loss) foreign exchange contracts: cash flow hedges: japanese yen $ 163 $ 118.43 $ (4 ) malaysian ringgit $ 228 $ 3.70 $ (9 ) philippine peso $ 51 $ 44.95 singapore dollar $ 45 $ 1.34 $ thai baht $ 628 $ 33.36 $ (12 ) fair value hedges: british pound sterling $ 7 $ 0.64 euro $ 6 $ 0.90 japanese yen $ 81 $ 122.93 philippine peso $ 33 $ 45.19 singapore dollar $ 15 $ 1.34 thai baht $ 80 $ 33.88 _______________ * expressed in units of foreign currency per u.s. dollar in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , total net realized transaction and foreign exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to our consolidated financial statements. disclosure about other market risks variable interest rate risk borrowings under the credit agreement bear interest at a rate equal to, at the option of the applicable borrower, either (a) a customary london interbank offered rate (a eurodollar rate ) or (b) a customary base rate (a base rate ), in each case plus an applicable margin. the applicable margins range from 1.25% to 2.00% with respect to eurodollar rate borrowings and 0.25% to 1.00% with respect to base rate borrowings. wdt, wdi and wd international are also required to pay a commitment fee for the unused portion of the revolving credit facility, which ranges from 0.175% to 0.300% per annum. the applicable margins for borrowings and the commitment fee ranges are determined based upon a leverage ratio of us and our subsidiaries calculated on a consolidated basis. a one percent increase in the variable rate of interest on the term loan and revolving credit facility would increase interest expense by approximately $26 million annually. for additional information, see part ii, item 8, note 3 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. 50 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors the business, financial condition and operating results of the company can be affected by a number of risks and uncertainties, whether currently known or unknown, any one or more of which could, directly or indirectly, cause the company's actual results of operations and financial condition to vary materially from past, or from anticipated future, results of operations and financial condition. the risks and uncertainties discussed below are not the only ones facing our business, but do represent those risks and uncertainties that we believe are material to us. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or the market price of our common stock. adverse global economic conditions and credit market uncertainty could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. adverse global economic conditions and uncertain conditions in the credit market have had, and in the future could have, a significant adverse effect on our company and on the storage industry as a whole. several factors contribute to these conditions and this uncertainty, including, but not limited to, volatility in the equity, credit and other financial markets and real estate markets, slower growth in certain geographic regions, lower levels of consumer liquidity, risk of default on sovereign debt, higher interest rates, materials and component cost increases, political uncertainty and other macroeconomic factors, such as the june 23, 2016 referendum by british voters to exit the european union, commonly referred to as brexit . some of the risks and uncertainties we face as a result of these conditions include the following: volatile demand and supplier risk. our direct and indirect customers may delay or reduce their purchases of our products and systems containing our products. in addition, many of our customers rely on credit financing to purchase our products. if negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers' access to credit, product orders may decrease, which could result in lower revenue. likewise, if our suppliers, sub-suppliers and sub-contractors (collectively referred to as suppliers ), or partners face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may be unable to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products. these actions could result in reductions in our revenue and increased operating costs, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. restructuring activities. if demand for our products slows as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions, we may undertake restructuring activities to realign our cost structure with softening demand. the occurrence of restructuring activities could result in impairment charges and other expenses, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. credit volatility and loss of receivables. we extend credit and payment terms to some of our customers. in addition to ongoing credit evaluations of our customers' financial condition, we traditionally seek to mitigate our credit risk by purchasing credit insurance on certain of our accounts receivable balances. as a result of the continued uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions; however, we may find it increasingly difficult to be able to insure these accounts receivable. we could suffer significant losses if a customer whose accounts receivable we have not insured, or have underinsured, fails to pay us on their accounts receivable balances. additionally, negative or uncertain global economic conditions increase the risk that if a customer we have insured fails to pay us on their accounts receivable, the financial condition of the insurance carrier for such customer account may have also deteriorated such that it cannot cover our loss. a significant loss of accounts receivable that we cannot recover through credit insurance would have a negative impact on our financial condition. impairment charges. we test goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of our fourth fiscal quarter and at other times if events have occurred or circumstances exist that indicate the carrying value of goodwill may no longer be recoverable. negative or uncertain global economic conditions could result in circumstances, such as a sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization or a decrease in our forecasted cash flows, indicating that the carrying value of our long-lived assets or goodwill may be impaired. if we are required to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements because of an impairment of our long-lived assets or goodwill, our results of operations will be adversely affected. for example, given the recent volatility of our market capitalization, it is possible that our goodwill could become impaired in the near term which could result in a material charge and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 12 table of contents integrating sandisk's operations with ours may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected and the anticipated benefits, synergies and cost savings of the merger may not be realized. the success of our recent acquisition of sandisk, including anticipated benefits, synergies and cost savings, will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine and integrate the businesses and culture of sandisk into our company. it is possible that the integration process will take longer than anticipated. in addition, the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, higher than expected costs, ongoing diversion of management attention, the disruption of our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, vendors, partners and employees. if we experience difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. in addition, the actual cost savings of the merger could be less than anticipated. additionally, the integration of sandisk's operations into our operations may also increase the risk that our internal controls are found to be ineffective. achieving the benefits of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the business and operations of sandisk successfully and efficiently with our business. the challenges involved in this integration, which will be complex and time-consuming, include, but are not limited to, the following: difficulties entering new markets or manufacturing in new geographies where we have no or limited direct prior experience; successfully managing relationships with our strategic partners, and our combined supplier and customer base; coordinating and integrating independent r&amp;d and engineering teams across technologies and product platforms to enhance product development while reducing costs; increased levels of investment in r&amp;d, manufacturing capability and technology enhancement relating to sandisk's business; successfully transitioning to 3d nand and alternative technologies; coordinating sales and marketing efforts to effectively position the combined company's capabilities and the direction of product development; difficulties in integrating the systems and processes of two companies with complex operations and multiple manufacturing sites; the increased scale and complexity of our operations resulting from the merger; retaining key employees; obligations that we will have to counterparties of sandisk that arise as a result of the change in control of sandisk; and the diversion of management attention from other important business objectives. if we do not successfully manage these issues and the other challenges inherent in integrating an acquired business of the size and complexity of sandisk, then we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger and our revenue, expenses, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. the incurrence of substantial indebtedness in connection with the financing of the merger may have an adverse impact on our liquidity, limit our flexibility in responding to other business opportunities and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. in connection with the merger, we substantially increased our indebtedness, which could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our obligations and have a negative impact on our financing options and liquidity position. as of july 1, 2016, our total indebtedness was $17.5 billion , and we had $1.0 billion of additional borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility. on april 13, 2016, we issued $1.875 billion in senior secured notes and $3.35 billion in senior unsecured notes. we also entered into new senior credit facilities on april 29, 2016 and an additional $3.0 billion bridge facility on may 12, 2016 under which we have borrowed in the aggregate approximately $11.9 billion as of the date of this annual report on form 10-k. the proceeds from the notes issuance and new credit facilities were used to pay part of the purchase price for the merger, refinance existing indebtedness of wd and sandisk and pay related transaction-related fees and expenses. on july 21, 2016, we repaid the $3.0 billion bridge facility in full. on august 17, 2016 we issued a new $3.0 billion u.s. dollar-denominated term loan b-1. in connection with this transaction, we settled the previous u.s. term loan b tranche with the proceeds of this new loan and a voluntary cash prepayment of $750 million . 13 table of contents our high level of debt could have significant consequences, which include, but are not limited to, the following: limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, r&amp;d and other general corporate purposes; limiting our ability to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all; imposing restrictive covenants on our operations; if we breach the covenants under our debt agreements, causing an event of default under the applicable indebtedness, which, if not cured or waived, could result in us having to repay our indebtedness before their due dates or result in cross defaults; placing us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors carrying less debt; and making us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limiting our ability to withstand competitive pressures. in addition, our credit ratings impact the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, our cost of capital. our ratings reflect the opinions of the ratings agencies of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations. there can be no assurance that we will achieve a particular rating or maintain a particular rating in the future. we may from time to time seek to refinance the substantial indebtedness we incurred to finance the merger by issuing additional shares of our common stock in one or more securities offerings. these securities offerings may dilute our existing shareholders, reduce the value of our common stock, or both. because our decision to issue securities will depend on, among other things, market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of any future securities offerings. thus, holders of our common stock bear the risk of our future offerings diluting and potentially reducing the value of our common stock. if we are unable to successfully integrate the business and operations of hgst, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. in connection with obtaining the regulatory approvals required to complete the acquisition of hgst, we agreed to certain conditions required by mofcom, including adopting measures to keep hgst as an independent competitor until mofcom agreed otherwise. on october 19, 2015, mofcom announced that it had made a decision allowing us to integrate substantial portions of our hgst and wd subsidiaries, provided that we continue to offer both hgst and wd product brands and maintain separate sales teams that will separately offer products under the wd and hgst brands for two years from the date of the decision. as a result of mofcom's decision, we immediately began planning for the integration of the substantial portions of our hgst and wd subsidiaries that we are now allowed to integrate (including corporate functions, r&amp;d, recording heads and magnetic media operations, engineering and manufacturing). we expect this integration to continue through the end of calendar year 2017. our integration efforts during this time may involve significant management time and create uncertainty for employees and customers. any delays in the integration process could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. it is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the loss of customers, the disruption of our company's ongoing business or in unexpected integration issues, higher than expected integration costs and an overall integration process that takes longer than originally anticipated. additionally, the integration of the operations of our hgst and wdt subsidiaries may also increase the risk that our internal controls are found to be ineffective. further, until we are able to begin combining our hgst and wd product brands and sales teams on october 19, 2017, we will continue to incur additional costs to maintain separate brands and sales teams. these additional costs, along with any delay in the integration process or higher than expected integration costs or other integration issues, could adversely affect our ability to achieve the full operating expense synergies we expect from integration of the businesses of our hgst and wdt subsidiaries. any failure to achieve the full operating expense synergies that we expect from this integration could harm our business and financial condition. achieving these synergies is also subject to significant business, operational, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, and we cannot assure you that any or all of these synergies will be achieved in the anticipated amounts or within the anticipated timeframes or cost expectations or at all. 14 table of contents we participate in a highly competitive industry that is subject to declining average selling prices ( asps ), volatile gross margins and significant shifts in market share, all of which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. demand for our devices, software and solutions that we offer to our customers, which we refer to in this item 1a as our products , depends in large part on the demand for systems (including pcs and mobile devices) manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems. the demand for systems has been volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand for our products in any given period. the price of nand flash memory is also influenced by, among other factors, the balance between supply and demand, including the effects of new fab capacity in the industry, macroeconomic factors, business conditions, technology transitions, conversion of industry dram capacity to nand, conversion of 2d nand capacity to 3d nand or other actions taken by us or our competitors. the storage market has experienced periods of excess capacity, which can lead to liquidation of excess inventories and more intense price competition. if more intense price competition occurs, we may be forced to lower prices sooner and more than expected, which could adversely impact revenue and gross margins. in addition, we compete based on our ability to offer our customers competitive solutions that provide the most current and desired product and service features. we expect that competition will continue to be intense, and there is a risk that our competitors' products may be less costly, provide better performance or include additional features when compared to our products. our asps and gross margins also tend to decline when there is a shift in the mix of product sales, and sales of lower priced products increase relative to those of higher priced products. further, we face potential gross margin pressures resulting from our asps declining more rapidly than our cost of goods sold. rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and profitability of sales of existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence. these factors, along with others, may also result in significant shifts in market share among the industry's major participants, including a substantial decrease in our market share, all of which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. our failure to accurately forecast market and customer demand for our products, or to quickly adjust to forecast changes, could adversely affect our business and financial results or operating efficiencies. the data storage industry faces difficulties in accurately forecasting market and customer demand for its products. the variety and volume of products we manufacture are based in part on these forecasts. accurately forecasting demand has become increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers in light of the volatility in global economic conditions and industry consolidation, resulting in less availability of historical market data for certain product segments. further, for many of our oems utilizing just-in-time inventory, we do not generally require firm order commitments and instead receive a periodic forecast of requirements, which may prove to be inaccurate. in addition, because our products are designed to be largely interchangeable with competitors' products, our demand forecasts may be impacted significantly by the strategic actions of our competitors. as forecasting demand becomes more difficult, the risk that our forecasts are not in line with demand increases. if our forecasts exceed actual market demand, then we could experience periods of product oversupply, excess inventory and price decreases, which could impact our financial performance. if market demand increases significantly beyond our forecasts or beyond our ability to add manufacturing capacity, then we may not be able to satisfy customer product needs, possibly resulting in a loss of market share if our competitors are able to meet customer demands. in addition, some of our components have long lead-times, requiring us to place orders several months in advance of anticipated demand. such long lead-times increase the risk of excess inventory or loss of sales in the event our forecasts vary substantially from actual demand. we experience significant sales seasonality and cyclicality, which could cause our operating results to fluctuate. sales of computer systems, mobile devices, storage subsystems, gaming consoles and consumer electronics ( ce ) tend to be seasonal and cyclical, and therefore we expect to continue to experience seasonality and cyclicality in our business as we respond to variations in our customers' demand for our products. however, changes in seasonal and cyclical patterns have made it, and could continue to make it, more difficult for us to forecast demand, especially as a result of the current macroeconomic environment. changes in the product or channel mix of our business can also impact seasonal and cyclical patterns, adding complexity in forecasting demand. seasonality and cyclicality also may lead to higher volatility in our stock price. it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which seasonality and cyclicality may affect our stock price or business in future periods because of the rate and unpredictability of product transitions and new product introductions and macroeconomic conditions. 15 table of contents our sales to the ce, cloud computing, network attached storage (nas), surveillance systems and enterprise markets, which have accounted for and may continue accounting for an increasing percentage of our overall revenue, may grow at a slower rate than current estimates or not at all, which could materially adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. the secular growth of digital data has resulted in a more diversified mix of revenue from the ce, cloud computing, nas, surveillance systems and enterprise markets. as sales into these markets have become a more significant portion of our revenue, events or circumstances that adversely impact demand in these markets, or our inability to address that demand successfully, could materially adversely impact our operating results. for example, demand in, or our sales to, these markets may be adversely affected by the following: mobile devices. there has been and continues to be a rapid growth in devices that do not contain a hard drive such as tablet computers and smart phones. as tablet computers and smart phones provide many of the same capabilities as pcs, they have displaced or materially affected, and we expect will continue to displace or materially affect, the demand for pcs. if we are not successful in adapting our product offerings to include disk drives or alternative storage solutions that address these devices, even after our acquisition of sandisk, demand for our products in these markets may decrease and our financial results could be materially adversely affected. in addition, global slowdown in the growth rate of mobile devices will also negatively impact our financial results. enterprise. the enterprise storage space is comprised of customers with long design, qualification and test cycles prior to sales. we spend substantial time and resources in our sales process without any assurance that our efforts will produce any customer orders on the timelines or in the quantities we expect. these lengthy and uncertain processes also make it difficult for us to forecast demand and timing of customer orders. due to longer customer product cycles, we may not be able to transition customers to our leading edge products, which would prevent us from benefitting from the technology transitions that enable cost reductions, which may harm our gross margin. demand for our enterprise solutions from our hyperscale customers is correlated to large projects and expansions which can be sporadic, resulting in demand that is lumpy and less consistent than the consumer-driven demand for many of our solutions. hyperscale customers may place orders for significant volumes with short lead times that may be difficult for us to fulfill, and sales to hyperscale customers may negatively impact gross margins due to product mix and pricing, each of which could adversely affect our business. in addition, hyperscale companies may internally develop enterprise storage solutions that reduce the demand for our solutions. cloud computing. consumers traditionally have stored their data on their pc, often supplemented with personal external storage devices. most businesses also include similar local storage as a primary or secondary storage location. this storage is typically provided by hdds and increasingly ssds. with cloud computing, applications and data are hosted, accessed and processed through a third-party provider over a broadband internet connection, potentially reducing or eliminating the need for, among other things, significant storage inside the accessing electronic device. even if we are successful at increasing revenues from sales to cloud computing customers, if we are not successful in manufacturing compelling products to address the cloud computing opportunity, demand for our products in these other markets may decrease and our financial results could be materially adversely affected. demand for cloud computing solutions themselves may be volatile due to differing patterns of technology adoption and innovation, improved data storage efficiency by cloud computing service providers, and concerns about data protection by end users. obsolete inventory. in some cases, products we manufacture for these markets are uniquely configured for a single customer's application, creating a risk of obsolete inventory if anticipated demand is not actually realized. in addition, rapid technological change in our industry increases the risk of inventory obsolescence. macroeconomic conditions. consumer spending has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected in many regions due to negative macroeconomic conditions and high unemployment levels. please see the risk factor entitled adverse global economic conditions and credit market uncertainty could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition for additional risks and uncertainties relating to macroeconomic conditions. in addition, demand in these areas also could be negatively impacted by developments in the regulation and enforcement of digital rights management and the emergence of new technologies, such as data duplication, compression and storage virtualization. if we are not able to respond appropriately, these factors could lead to our customers' storage needs being satisfied at lower prices with lower capacity hard drives or solid-state storage products, thereby decreasing our revenue or putting us at a disadvantage to competing storage technologies. as a result, even with increasing aggregate demand for digital storage, if we fail to anticipate or timely respond to these developments in the demand for storage, our asps could decline, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, our ability to accurately read and respond to market trends, such as trends relating to the internet of things or big data, could harm our results. 16 table of contents deterioration in the pc market may continue or accelerate, which could cause our operating results to suffer. while sales to non-pc markets are becoming a more significant source of revenue, sales to the pc market remain an important part of our business. we believe that sales of pcs have declined due to fundamental changes in the pc market, including the growth of alternative mobile devices and the lengthening of product life cycles, and that further deterioration of the pc market may continue or accelerate, which could cause our operating results and financial condition to suffer. additionally, if demand in the pc market is worse than expected as a result of these or other conditions, or demand for our products in the pc market decreases at a faster rate than expected, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. selling to the retail market is an important part of our business, and if we fail to maintain and grow our market share or gain market acceptance of our branded products, our operating results could suffer. selling branded products is an important part of our business, and as our branded products revenue increases as a portion of our overall revenue, our success in the retail market becomes increasingly important to our operating results. our success in the retail market depends in large part on our ability to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation and to expand into and gain market acceptance of our products in multiple channels. we must successfully respond to the rapid change away from traditional advertising media, marketing and sales methods to the use of internet media and advertising, particularly social media, and online sales, or our brand and retail sales could be negatively affected. adverse publicity, whether or not justified, or allegations of product or service quality issues, even if false or unfounded, could tarnish our reputation and cause our customers to choose products offered by our competitors. in addition, the proliferation of new methods of mass communication facilitated by the internet makes it easier for false or unfounded allegations to adversely affect our brand image and reputation. if customers no longer maintain a preference for wd, hgst or sandisk brand products, our operating results may be adversely affected. a significant portion of our sales is made through retailers, and if our retailers are not successful in selling our products, not only would our revenue decrease, but we could also experience lower gross margin due to the return of unsold inventory or the protection we provide to retailers against price declines. sales in the distribution channel are important to our business, and if we fail to respond to demand changes in distribution markets or if distribution markets for our products weaken, our operating results could suffer. our distribution customers typically sell to small computer manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators and other resellers. we face significant competition in this channel as a result of limited product qualification programs and a significant focus on price and availability of product. in addition, the pc market is experiencing a shift to notebook and other mobile devices and, as a result, more computing devices are being delivered to the market as complete systems, which could weaken the distribution market. if we fail to respond to changes in demand in the distribution market, our operating results could suffer. additionally, if the distribution market weakens as a result of a slowing pc growth rate, technology transitions or a significant change in consumer buying preference, or if we experience significant price declines due to demand changes in the distribution channel, then our operating results would be adversely affected. negative changes in the credit-worthiness or the ability to access credit, or the bankruptcy or shutdown of any of our significant retail or distribution partners would harm our revenue and our ability to collect outstanding receivable balances. loss of market share with or by a key customer, or consolidation among our customer base, could harm our operating results. during the fiscal year ended july 1, 2016, 43% of our revenue came from sales to our top 10 customers. these customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial demands on us, including demands on product pricing and on contractual terms, often resulting in the allocation of risk to us as the supplier. our ability to maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is essential to our future performance. if we lose a key customer, if any of our key customers reduce their orders of our products or require us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, if a customer is acquired by one of our competitors or if a key customer suffers financial hardship, our operating results and financial condition would likely be harmed. additionally, if there is consolidation among our customer base, our customers may be able to command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. in addition, if, as a result of increased leverage, customer pressures require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, we could decide not to sell our products to a particular customer, which could result in a decrease in our revenue. consolidation among our customer base may also lead to reduced demand for our products, replacement of our products by the combined entity with those of our competitors and cancellations of orders, each of which could harm our operating results. 17 table of contents also, the storage ecosystem is constantly evolving, and our traditional customer base is changing. fewer companies now hold greater market share for certain applications and services, such as mobile, social media, shopping and streaming media. as a result, the competitive landscape is changing, giving these companies increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. in addition, the changes in our evolving customer base create new selling and distribution patterns to which we must adapt. to remain competitive, we must respond to these changes by ensuring we have proper scale in this evolving market, as well as offer products that meet the technological requirements of this customer base at competitive pricing points. to the extent we are not successful in adequately responding to these changes, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. expansion into new markets may increase the complexity of our business, cause us to increase our r&amp;d expenses to develop new products and technologies or cause our capital expenditures to increase, and if we are unable to successfully adapt our business processes and product offerings as required by these new markets, our ability to grow will be adversely affected. to remain a significant supplier in the storage industry and to expand into new markets, we will need to offer a broader range of storage products to our customers. we currently offer a variety of 3.5-inch and 2.5-inch hard drives, solid state drives and systems, flash storage solutions, and other products for the pc, mobile, enterprise, data center and other storage markets. as we expand our product lines to sell into new markets, such as our recent entry into active archive systems and new flash memory business through the merger, including the vertically integrated business model through flash ventures, the overall complexity of our business may increase at an accelerated rate and we may become subject to different market dynamics. these dynamics may include, among other things, different demand volume, cyclicality, seasonality, product requirements, sales channels, and warranty and return policies. in addition, expansion into other markets may result in increases in r&amp;d expenses and substantial investments in manufacturing capability, technology enhancements and go-to-market capability. flash ventures requires significant investments by both toshiba and us for technology transitions, including the transition to 3d nand, and capacity expansions. if we fail to successfully expand into new markets with products that we do not currently offer, we may lose business to our competitors or new entrants who offer these products. our vertical integration of recording head and magnetic media manufacturing makes us dependent on our ability to timely and cost-effectively develop recording heads and magnetic media with leading technology and overall quality, increasing capital expenditure costs and asset utilization risks for our business. we develop and manufacture a substantial portion of the recording heads and magnetic media used in the hard drive products we produce. consequently, we are more dependent upon our own development and execution efforts and less able to take advantage of recording head and magnetic media technologies developed by other manufacturers. technology transition for recording heads and magnetic media designs is critical to increasing our volume production of recording heads and magnetic media. we may be unsuccessful in timely and cost-effectively developing and manufacturing recording heads or magnetic media for products using future technologies. we also may not effectively transition our recording head or magnetic media design and technology to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields using the technologies necessary to satisfy our customers' product needs, or we may encounter quality problems with the recording heads or magnetic media we manufacture. if we are unable to timely and cost-effectively develop recording heads and magnetic media with leading technology and overall quality, our ability to sell our products may be significantly diminished, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. in addition, as a result of our vertical integration of recording heads and magnetic media manufacturing, we make more capital investments and carry a higher percentage of fixed costs than we would if we were not vertically integrated. if our overall level of production decreases for any reason, and we are unable to reduce our fixed costs to match sales, our recording head or magnetic media manufacturing assets may face underutilization that may impact our operating results. we are therefore subject to additional risks related to overall asset utilization, including the need to operate at high levels of utilization to drive competitive costs and the need for assured supply of components that we do not manufacture ourselves. in addition, as a result of adverse labor rates or availability, we may be required to increase investments in automation, which may cause our capital expenditures to increase. if we do not adequately address the challenges related to our recording head or magnetic media manufacturing operations, our ongoing operations could be disrupted, resulting in a decrease in our revenue or profit margins and negatively impacting our operating results. 18 table of contents we make significant investments in r&amp;d to improve our technology and develop new technologies, and unsuccessful investments or investments that are not cost effective could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. as a leading supplier of hard drives and flash storage solutions, we make significant investments to maintain our existing products and to lead innovation and development of new technologies. this strategy requires us to make significant investments in r&amp;d. in addition, we may increase our capital expenditures and expenses above our historical run-rate model in order to remain competitive or as a result of the merger with sandisk, which has historically maintained higher levels of investment in r&amp;d than our company. the current inherent physical limitations associated with storage technologies are resulting in more costly capital expenditures that reduce the cost benefits of technology transitions and could limit our ability to keep pace with reductions in asps. these investments may not result in viable technologies or products, and even if they do result in viable technologies or products, they may not be profitable or accepted by the market. significant investments in unsuccessful or cost-ineffective r&amp;d efforts could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, increased investments in technology could cause our cost structure to fall out of alignment with demand for our products, which would have a negative impact on our financial results. current or future competitors may gain a technology advantage or develop an advantageous cost structure that we cannot match. it may be possible for our current or future competitors to gain an advantage in product technology, manufacturing technology, or process technology, which may allow them to offer products or services that have a significant advantage over the products and services that we offer. advantages could be in price, capacity, performance, reliability, serviceability, industry standards or formats, brand and marketing, or other attributes. a competitive cost structure for our products, including critical components, labor and overhead, is also critical to the success of our business. we may be at a competitive disadvantage to any companies that are able to gain a technological or cost structure advantage. the chinese government and various agencies, state-owned or affiliated enterprises and investment funds are making significant investments to promote china's domestic semiconductor industry consistent with the government's stated national policy objectives. if we are unable to effectively compete with any manufacturers located in china or non-chinese competitors benefitting from alliances with chinese companies in the markets where we compete, our operating results and financial condition will suffer. consolidation within the data storage industry could provide competitive advantages to our competitors. the data storage industry as a whole has experienced consolidation over the past several years through acquisitions, mergers and decisions by industry players to exit the industry. consolidation across the industry, including by our competitors, may enhance their capacity, abilities and resources and lower their cost structure, causing us to be at a competitive disadvantage. some of our competitors with diversified business units outside of storage products, may, over extended periods of time, sell storage products at prices that we cannot profitably match. some of our competitors earn a significant portion of their revenue from business units outside of storage products. because they do not depend solely on sales of storage products to achieve profitability, they may sell storage products at lower prices and operate their storage business unit at a loss over an extended period of time while still remaining profitable overall. in addition, if these competitors can increase sales of non-storage products to the same customers, they may benefit from selling their storage products at lower prices. our operating results may be adversely affected if we cannot successfully compete with the pricing by these companies. 19 table of contents if we fail to qualify our products and achieve design wins with our customers, it may have a significant adverse impact on our sales and margins. we regularly engage in new product qualification with our customers, and the product qualification process may be lengthy for some customers, including those in enterprise storage. once a product is accepted for qualification testing, failures or delays in the qualification process can result in delayed or reduced product sales, reduced product margins caused by having to continue to offer a more costly current generation product, or lost sales to that customer until the next generation of products is introduced. the effect of missing a product qualification opportunity is magnified by the limited number of high volume oems and hyperscale customers, which continue to consolidate their share of the storage markets. likewise, if product life cycles lengthen, we may have a significantly longer period to wait before we have an opportunity to qualify a new product with a customer, which could reduce our profits because we expect declining gross margins on our current generation products as a result of competitive pressures. even if our products meet customer specifications, our sales to these customers are dependent upon the customers choosing our products over those of our competitors and purchasing our products in sufficient volume, our ability to supply our products in sufficient quantity and in a timely manner and, with respect to oem partners, the oems' ability to create, market and successfully sell products containing our solutions. moreover, in transitioning to new technologies, such as 3d nand, and products, we may not achieve design wins, our customers may delay transition to these new technologies, our competitors may transition more quickly than we do, or we may experience product delays, cost overruns or performance issues that could harm our operating results and financial condition. we are subject to risks related to product defects or the unintended use or security breaches of our products, which could result in product recalls or epidemic failures and could subject us to warranty claims in excess of our warranty provisions or which are greater than anticipated, litigation or indemnification claims. we warrant the majority of our products for periods of one to five years. we test our products in our manufacturing facilities through a variety of means. however, our testing may fail to reveal defects in our products that may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market. in addition, our products may be used in a manner that is not intended or anticipated by us, resulting in potential liability. accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will occur, which could require a product recall. product recalls can be expensive to implement. as part of a product recall, we may be required or choose to replace the defective product. moreover, there is a risk that product defects may trigger an epidemic failure clause in a customer agreement. if an epidemic failure occurs, we may be required to replace or refund the value of the defective product and to cover certain other costs associated with the consequences of the epidemic failure. in addition, product defects, product recalls or epidemic failures may cause damage to our reputation or customer relationships, lost revenue, indemnification for a recall of our customers' products, warranty claims, litigation or loss of market share with our customers, including our oem and odm customers. our business liability insurance may be inadequate or future coverage may be unavailable on acceptable terms, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. our standard warranties contain limits on damages and exclusions of liability for consequential damages and for misuse, improper installation, alteration, accident or mishandling while in the possession of someone other than us. we record an accrual for estimated warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. we may incur additional expenses if our warranty provision do not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues related to defects in our products, whether as a result of a product recall, epidemic failure or otherwise. if these additional expenses are significant, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. certain of our products contain encryption or security algorithms to protect third party content and user-generated data stored on our products. to the extent our products are hacked or the encryption schemes are compromised or breached, this could harm our business by hurting our reputation, requiring us to employ additional resources to fix the errors or defects and expose us to litigation and indemnification claims. in addition, third-party components or applications that we incorporate or use in our products may contain defects in design or manufacturing that could unexpectedly result in epidemic failures and subject us to liability. we rely substantially on our business ventures and strategic partnerships with toshiba for the supply of nand flash memory, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. we are dependent on flash ventures and other strategic relationships with toshiba for our nand flash memory supply, and therefore our business, financial condition and operating results, and our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the merger, will be dependent on the success of flash ventures and other strategic relationships with toshiba. 20 table of contents a majority of our nand flash memory is supplied by flash ventures, which limits our ability to respond to demand and supply changes. a failure to accurately forecast demand could cause us to over-invest or under-invest in technology transitions or the expansion of captive memory capacity in flash ventures. over-investment could result in excess supply, which could cause significant decreases in our product prices, significant excess, obsolete or lower of cost or net realizable value inventory write-downs or under-utilization charges, and the potential impairment of our investments in flash ventures. on the other hand, if we or toshiba under-invest in captive memory capacity or technology transitions, if we grow capacity more slowly than the rest of the industry, if our technology transitions do not occur on the timeline that we expect, if we encounter unanticipated difficulties in implementing these transitions, or if we implement technology transitions more slowly than our competitors, we may not have enough captive supply of the right type of memory or at all to meet demand on a timely and cost effective basis and we may lose opportunities for revenue and share as a result. if our nand memory supply is limited, we may make strategic decisions with respect to the allocation of our supply among our products and customers, and these strategic allocation decisions may result in less favorable gross margin in the short term or damage certain customer relationships. growth of our nand flash memory bit supply at a slower rate than the overall industry for an extended period of time would result in lowering our share which could limit our future opportunities and harm our financial results. we are also contractually obligated to pay for 50% of the fixed costs of flash ventures regardless of whether we purchase any wafers from flash ventures. furthermore, purchase orders placed with flash ventures and under the foundry arrangements with toshiba for up to three months are binding and cannot be canceled. therefore, once our purchase decisions have been made, our production costs for flash memory are fixed, and we may be unable to reduce costs to match any subsequent declines in pricing or demand, which would harm our gross margin. our limited ability to react to fluctuations in flash memory supply and demand makes our financial results particularly susceptible to variations from our forecasts and expectations. in addition, we partner with toshiba on the development of nand flash technology. sandisk has entered into strategic partnerships with toshiba relating to r&amp;d for the next technology transitions of nand flash and alternative technologies beyond nand flash technologies. these ventures and strategic partnerships are subject to various risks that could harm the value of our investments, our revenue and costs, our future rate of spending, our technology plans and our future growth opportunities. under the terms of sandisk's venture agreements with toshiba, which govern the operations of flash ventures, we have limited power to unilaterally direct most of the activities that most significantly impact flash ventures' performance. although sandisk and toshiba have a long history of aligning on important manufacturing and technology development decisions, the integration of sandisk into our organization could complicate the process of reaching agreement with toshiba in a timely and favorable manner. we may not always agree with toshiba on the nand r&amp;d roadmap, the technology path beyond nand flash memory, or expansions or conversions of production capacity. a change in the management or control of toshiba's storage business could lead to delays in decision-making or changes in strategic direction that could also adversely impact flash ventures. in addition, toshiba's financial position or shift in strategic priorities could adversely impact our business. flash ventures requires significant investments by both toshiba and us for technology transitions, including the transition to 3d nand, and capacity expansions. in march 2016, toshiba announced plans to construct a new wafer fab in yokkaichi, japan, to provide additional cleanroom space for expanded 3d nand production. although we intend to extend the joint venture partnership with toshiba to the new wafer fab, there is no certainty as to when, and on what terms, we will participate with toshiba in any investment in, or use of, the new wafer fab, if at all. failure to extend the joint venture partnership or failure to continue to secure and invest in additional cleanroom space to support the continued 3d nand transition could adversely impact our supply of captive nand flash memory and financial results. if toshiba does not or we do not provide sufficient resources or have adequate access to credit, these investments could be delayed or reduced. in addition, in the event that lease financings for flash ventures are not available on favorable terms or at all, more cash would be required to fund these investments. 21 table of contents our strategic relationships subject us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have entered into strategic relationships with various partners for future product development, sales growth and the supply of technologies, components, equipment and materials for use in our product design and manufacturing, including our relationships with toshiba for nand flash memory supply. in addition, in november 2015, we entered into an agreement to form a joint venture with unis to market and sell our current data center storage systems in china and to develop data storage systems for the chinese market in the future; the joint venture is 49% owned by us and 51% owned by unis and its subsidiary, unissoft (wuxi) group co. ltd. please see the risk factor entitled because we are dependent on a limited number of qualified suppliers for components, sub-assemblies, equipment, consumables, raw materials, and logistics, a supplier's inability, unwillingness, or failure to support us in a timely manner with goods or services at a quality level and cost acceptable to us can adversely affect our margins, revenues and operating results, for a further description of the risks associated with our reliance on external suppliers. these strategic relationships are subject to various risks that could adversely affect the value of our investments and our results of operations and financial condition. these risks include, but are not limited to, the following: our interests could diverge from our partners' interests or we may not agree with co-venturers on ongoing activities, technology transitions or on the amount, timing or nature of further investments in the relationship; we may experience difficulties and delays in ramping production at, and transferring technology to, our business ventures; our control over the operations of our business ventures is limited; due to financial constraints, our co-venturers may be unable to meet their commitments to us or may pose credit risks for our transactions with them; due to differing business models or long-term business goals, our partners may decide not to join us in funding capital investment by our business ventures, which may result in higher levels of cash expenditures by us; we may lose the rights to technology or products being developed by the strategic relationship, including if any of our co-venturers is acquired by another company, files for bankruptcy or experiences financial or other losses; we may experience difficulties or delays in collecting amounts due to us from our co-venturers; the terms of our arrangements may turn out to be unfavorable; and changes in tax, legal or regulatory requirements may necessitate changes in the agreements with our co-venturers. if our strategic relationships are unsuccessful or there are unanticipated changes in, or termination of, our strategic relationships, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. because we are dependent on a limited number of qualified suppliers for components, sub-assemblies, testing, equipment, consumables, raw materials, and logistics, a supplier's inability, unwillingness, or failure to support us in a timely manner with goods or services at a quality level and cost acceptable to us can adversely affect our margins, revenues and operating results. we depend on an external supply base for technologies, software (including firmware), controller, components, equipment and materials for use in our product design and manufacturing. we also depend on suppliers for a portion of our wafer testing, chip assembly, product assembly and product testing, and on service suppliers for providing technical support for our products. in addition, we use logistics partners to manage our just-in-time hubs, distribution centers and freight from suppliers to our factories and from our factories to our customers throughout the world. many of the components and much of the equipment we acquire must be specifically designed to be compatible for use in our products or for developing and manufacturing our future products, and are only available from a limited number of suppliers, some of whom are our sole-source suppliers. we are therefore dependent on these suppliers to be able and willing to dedicate adequate engineering resources to develop components that can be successfully integrated into our products, technology and equipment that can be used to develop and manufacture our next-generation products efficiently. our supply base has experienced industry consolidation. where we rely on a limited number of suppliers or a single supplier, the risk of supplier loss due to industry consolidation is enhanced. any disruption in our supply chain could reduce our revenue and adversely impact our financial results. 22 table of contents from time to time, our suppliers have experienced difficulty meeting our requirements. if we are unable to purchase sufficient quantities from our current suppliers or qualify and engage additional suppliers, we may not be able to meet demand for our products. we do not have long-term contracts with some of our existing suppliers, nor do we always have guaranteed manufacturing capacity with our suppliers and, therefore, we cannot guarantee that they will devote sufficient resources or capacity to manufacturing our products. we are not able to directly control product delivery schedules or quality assurance. furthermore, we manufacture on a turnkey basis with some of our suppliers. in these arrangements, we do not have visibility and control of our suppliers' inventories of purchased parts necessary to build our products or of the progress of our products through their assembly line. any significant problems that occur at our suppliers, or their failure to perform at the level we expect, could lead to product shortages or quality assurance problems, either of which would harm our operating results and financial condition. in addition, if we are unable to purchase sufficient quantities from our current suppliers, we may not be able to engage alternative suppliers who are able or willing to provide goods or services in sufficient quantities or at a cost acceptable to us. our products require controllers and firmware. we rely on a limited number of third-party vendors to develop or supply controllers for many of our high-value solutions. any delays or cost increases in developing or sourcing controllers or firmware, or incompatibility or quality issues relating to the controllers or firmware in our products, could harm our financial results as well as business relationships with our customers. a majority of our flash memory is currently supplied by flash ventures and, to a much lesser extent, by third-party silicon suppliers. any disruption or shortage in supply of flash memory from our captive or non-captive sources would harm our operating results and financial condition. many of the risks that affect us also affect our supply base and flash ventures, including, but not limited to, having single site manufacturing locations and other facilities based in high risk regions of the world (for example, flash ventures is located in yokkaichi, japan), natural disasters, power shortages, macro and local economic conditions, shortages of commodity materials, proper management of technology transitions, geo-political risks, employee strikes and other labor actions, compliance with legal requirements, financial instability and exposure to intellectual property ( ip ) and other litigation, including an injunction or other action that could delay shipping. if any of these risks were to affect our suppliers or flash ventures, we could also be adversely affected, especially in the case of products, components or services that are single-sourced. for example, if suppliers are facing increased costs due to the above risks, they may require us to enter into long-term volume agreements to shift the burden of fixed costs to us. further, we work closely with many of our suppliers and strategic partners to develop new technologies and, as a result, we may become subject to litigation from our suppliers, strategic partners or third parties. without a capable and financially stable supply base that has established appropriate relationships within the supply chain and has implemented business processes, strategies and risk management safeguards, we would be unable to develop our products, manufacture them in high volumes, and distribute them to our customers to execute our business plans effectively. some of our suppliers have also experienced a decline in financial performance. our suppliers may be acquired by our competitors, consolidate, or decide to exit the industry, redirect their investments and increase costs to us, each of which may have an adverse effect on our business and operations. in addition, moving to new technologies may require us to align to, and build, a new supply base. our success in new product areas may be dependent on our ability to develop close relationships with new suppliers, with preferential agreements. where this cannot be done, our business and operations may be adversely affected. in addition to an external supply base, we also rely on an internal supply chain of heads, media and media substrate, and we rely on our business ventures with toshiba for the supply of nand flash memory. please see the risk factors entitled, a fundamental change in storage technologies and standards could result in significant increases in our costs and could put us at a competitive disadvantage, if we do not properly manage technology transitions, our competitiveness and operating results may be negatively affected, and we rely substantially on our business ventures and strategic partnerships with toshiba for the supply of nand flash memory, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results for a review of some of the risks related to these supplies. 23 table of contents price volatility, shortages of critical materials or components, or use by other industries of materials and components used in the storage industry, may negatively impact our operating results. increases in the cost for certain critical materials and components and oil may increase our costs of manufacturing and transporting our products and key components and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to pass these increased costs on to our customers. shortages of critical components such as dram and nand flash, or materials such as glass substrates, stainless steel, aluminum, nickel, neodymium, ruthenium, platinum or cerium, may increase our costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to find ways to mitigate these increased costs. we or our suppliers acquire certain precious metals and rare earth metals like ruthenium, platinum, neodymium and cerium, which are critical to the manufacture of components in our products from a number of countries, including the people's republic of china. the government of china or any other nation may impose regulations, quotas or embargoes upon these metals that would restrict the worldwide supply of such metals or increase their cost, both of which could negatively impact our operating results until alternative suppliers are sourced. furthermore, if other high volume industries increase their demand for materials or components used in our products, our costs may further increase, which could have an adverse effect on our operating margins. in addition, shortages in other components and materials used in our customers' products could result in a decrease in demand for our products, which would negatively impact our operating results. contractual commitments with component suppliers may result in us paying increased charges and cash advances for such components or may cause us to have inadequate or excess component inventory. to reduce the risk of component shortages, we attempt to provide significant lead times when buying components, which may subject us to cancellation charges if we cancel orders as a result of technology transitions or changes in our component needs. in addition, we may from time to time enter into contractual commitments with component suppliers in an effort to increase and stabilize the supply of those components and enable us to purchase such components at favorable prices. some of these commitments may require us to buy a substantial number of components from the supplier or make significant cash advances to the supplier; however, these commitments may not result in a satisfactory increase or stabilization of the supply of such components. furthermore, as a result of uncertain global economic conditions, our ability to forecast our requirements for these components has become increasingly difficult, therefore increasing the risk that our contractual commitments may not meet our actual supply requirements, which could cause us to have inadequate or excess component inventory and adversely affect our operating results and increase our operating costs. if we do not properly manage technology transitions, our competitiveness and operating results may be negatively affected. the storage markets in which we offer our products continuously undergo technology transitions that we must anticipate and adapt our products to address in a timely manner. if we fail to implement new technologies successfully, or if we are slower than our competitors at implementing new technologies, we may not be able to competitively offer products that our customers desire or keep pace with asp reduction, which could harm our operating results. in addition, if our customers choose to delay transition to new technologies, if demand for the products that we develop is lower than expected or if the supporting technologies to implement these new technologies are not available, we may be unable to achieve the cost structure required to support our profit objectives or may be unable to grow or maintain our market position. for example, as 2d nand technology reaches its limits of cost effective technology scaling, our successful development of 3d nand and alternative technologies, such as 3d reram, and transitioning our customers to these technologies in a timely and effective manner are crucial to continuing the cost reductions necessary to maintain adequate gross margin. in transitioning our 2d nand manufacturing capacity to 3d nand technology, we could experience delays or other challenges in the production ramp, qualification of wafers, shipment of samples to customers or customer approval process. 3d nand and any new manufacturing node may be more susceptible to manufacturing yield issues. manufacturing yield issues may not be identified during the development or production process or solved until an actual product is manufactured and tested, further increasing our costs. if our technology transitions, including the production ramp of 3d nand technology, take longer, are more costly to complete than anticipated, or do not improve manufacturing yield or other manufacturing efficiencies, our flash memory costs may not remain competitive with other nand flash memory producers or may not fall commensurate with declines in the price of nand flash memory, which would harm revenues, our gross margin and operating results. many companies, including some of our competitors, have developed or are attempting to develop alternative non-volatile technologies. successful broad-based commercialization of one or more competing technologies, as well as differing strategies and timing with respect to the transition from 2d nand to 3d nand, could reduce the competitiveness and future revenue and profitability of our 2d nand and 3d nand flash technologies, and the potential 3d reram technology that we are developing with our partners. in addition, we generate license and royalty revenue from nand flash technology, and if nand flash technology is replaced by a technology where our ip is less relevant, our license and royalty revenue would decrease. also, we may not have access to alternative technologies that we do not develop internally and we may have to pay royalties in order to access such technologies. 24 table of contents changes in product life cycles could adversely affect our financial results. if product life cycles lengthen, we may need to develop new technologies or programs to reduce our costs on any particular product to maintain competitive pricing for that product. longer product life cycles could also restrict our ability to transition customers to our newer products in a timely manner, or at all, negatively impacting our ability to recoup our significant r&amp;d investments to improve our existing technology and develop new technologies. if product life cycles shorten, it may result in an increase in our overall expenses and a decrease in our gross margins, both of which could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, shortening of product life cycles also makes it more difficult to recover the cost of product development before the product becomes obsolete. our failure to recover the cost of product development in the future could adversely affect our operating results. a fundamental change in storage technologies and standards could result in significant increases in our costs and could put us at a competitive disadvantage. historically, when the industry experiences a fundamental change in storage technologies or standards, any manufacturer that fails to successfully and timely adjust its designs and processes to accommodate the new technology or standard fails to remain competitive. there are some revolutionary technologies, such as current-perpendicular-to-plane giant magnetoresistance, shingle magnetic recording, heat-assisted magnetic recording, patterned magnetic media and advanced signal processing that, if implemented by a competitor on a commercially viable basis ahead of the industry, could put us at a competitive disadvantage. in addition, many companies, including some of our competitors, have developed or are attempting to develop alternative non-volatile technologies, including non-nand technologies such as magnetorestitive ram, reram, 3d xpoint, phase change and memristor, as well as nand based vertical or stacked 3d memories based on charge trap, floating gate and other cell architecture. in embedded solutions, certain competitors have recently introduced a mobile storage standard referred to as universal flash storage, or ufs, and in the datacenter market, certain competitors have recently introduced a non-volatile memory express, or nvme, product that can be used as a substitute for our pcie solutions. as a result of these shifts in technology and standards, we could incur substantial costs in developing new technologies, such as recording heads, magnetic media and tools, in adopting new standards or in investing in different capital equipment or manufacturing processes to remain competitive. if we fail to successfully implement these new technologies or standards, or if we are significantly slower than our competitors at implementing new technologies or standards, we may not be able to offer products with capacities and capabilities that our customers desire, which could harm our operating results. the difficulty of introducing hard drives with higher levels of areal density and the challenges of reducing other costs may impact our ability to achieve historical levels of cost reduction. storage capacity of the hard drive, as manufactured by us, is determined by the number of disks and each disk's areal density. areal density is a measure of the amount of magnetic bits that can be stored on the recording surface of the disk. generally, the higher the areal density, the more information can be stored on a single platter. higher areal densities require existing recording head and magnetic media technology to be improved or new technologies developed to accommodate more data on a single disk. historically, we have been able to achieve a large percentage of cost reduction through increases in areal density. increases in areal density mean that the average drive we sell has fewer heads and disks for the same capacity and, therefore, may result in a lower component cost. however, increasing areal density has become more difficult in the storage industry. if we are not able to increase areal density at the same rate as our competitors or at a rate that is expected by our customers, we may be required to include more components in our drives to meet demand without corresponding incremental revenue, which could negatively impact our operating margins and make achieving historical levels of cost reduction difficult or unlikely. additionally, increases in areal density may require us to make further capital expenditures on items such as new test equipment needed as a result of an increased number of gigabytes per platter. our inability to achieve cost reductions could adversely affect our operating results. 25 table of contents our license and royalty revenue may fluctuate or decline significantly in the future due to license agreement expirations or renewals, declines in sales of the products or use of technology underlying the license and royalty revenue by our licensees, or if licensees fail to perform on a portion or all of their contractual obligations. if our existing licensees do not renew their licenses upon expiration, renew or sign new agreements on less favorable terms, exercise their option to terminate the license or fail to exercise their option to extend the licenses, or we are not successful in signing new licensees in the future, our license revenue, profitability and cash provided by operating activities would be harmed and we may incur significant patent litigation costs to enforce our patents against these licensees. as our older patents expire, and the coverage of our newer patents may be different, it may be more difficult to negotiate or renew favorable license agreement terms or a license agreement at all. our 2009 license agreement with samsung expired on august 14, 2016. if we are unable to negotiate a new agreement or if we negotiate a new agreement on less favorable terms such as a lower effective royalty rate compared to the expired license agreement, we will experience a decrease in license and royalty revenue. our agreements may require us in certain instances to recognize license revenue related to a particular licensee all in one period instead of over time, which could create additional volatility in our licensing revenue. a portion of our license and royalty revenue is based on sales of product categories as well as the underlying technology, and fluctuations in the sales of those products or technology adoption rates would also result in fluctuations in the license and royalty revenue due to us under our agreements. if our licensees or we fail to perform on contractual obligations, we may incur costs to enforce or defend the terms of our licenses and there can be no assurance that our enforcement, defense or collection efforts will be effective. if we license new ip from third parties or existing licensees, we may be required to pay license fees, royalty payments or offset existing license revenue. we may enter into agreements with customers, suppliers or partners that could limit our ability to monetize our ip or could result in us being required to provide ip indemnification to our customers, suppliers or partners. in addition, we may be subject to disputes, claims or other disagreements on the timing, amount or collection of royalties or license payments under our license agreements. if we do not properly manage new product development, our competitiveness and operating results may be negatively affected. our success depends in part on our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner in order to keep pace with technology advancements. advances in semiconductor technology have resulted in other emerging technologies that can be competitive with traditional storage technologies. we may be unsuccessful in anticipating and developing new and improved products for the client, enterprise and other storage markets in response to competing technologies. if our hard drive, solid state products and our storage solutions products fail to offer a superior value proposition to alternative storage products, we will be at a competitive disadvantage and our business will suffer. in some cases, our customers' demand for a more diversified portfolio results in investments in new products for a particular market that do not necessarily expand overall market opportunity, which may negatively affect our operating results. as we introduce new products, standards or technologies, it can take time for these new standards or technologies to be adopted, for consumers to accept and transition to these new standards or technologies and for significant sales to be generated, if at all. failure of consumers or enterprises to adopt our new products, standards or technologies could harm our results of operations as we fail to reap the benefits of our investments. in addition, the success of our new product introductions depends on a number of other factors, including: difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp; implementing at an acceptable cost product features expected by our customers; market acceptance/qualification; effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand; quality problems or other defects in the early stages of new product introduction and problems with compatibility between our products and those of our customers that were not anticipated in the design of those products; our ability to increase our software development capability; and the effectiveness of our go-to-market capability in selling these new products. in particular, as part of our growth strategy, we have made significant investments in active archive systems, which are designed to enable organizations to rapidly access massive long-term data stores. for example, our acquisition of amplidata was partially driven by our strategy to expand in this area. we expect to continue to make significant investments in active archive systems. our active archive systems may fail to gain market acceptance, or the market for active archive systems may not grow as we anticipate. 26 table of contents we have also seen, and anticipate continuing to see, an increase in customers requesting that we develop products, including software associated with our products, that incorporate open source software elements and operate in an open source environment. adapting to this demand may cause product delays, placing us at a competitive disadvantage. open source products could also reduce our capability for product differentiation or innovation and our affected products could be diminished to commodity status, which we expect would place increased downward pressure on our margins. if we fail to successfully anticipate and manage issues associated with our product development generally, our business may suffer. our operations, and those of certain of our suppliers and customers, are concentrated in large, purpose-built facilities, subjecting us to substantial risk of damage or loss if operations at any of these facilities are disrupted. as a result of our cost structure and strategy of vertical integration, we conduct our operations at large, high volume, purpose-built facilities in california and throughout asia. the concentration of flash ventures in yokkaichi, japan, magnifies the risks of supply disruption. the facilities of many of our customers, our suppliers and our customers' suppliers are also concentrated in certain geographic locations throughout asia and elsewhere. a localized health risk affecting our employees at these facilities or the staff of our or our customers' other suppliers, such as the spread of a pandemic influenza, could impair the total volume of our products that we are able to manufacture or sell, which would result in substantial harm to our operating results. similarly, a fire, flood, earthquake, tsunami or other natural disaster, condition or event such as political instability, civil unrest or a power outage that adversely affects any of these facilities, including access to or from these facilities by employees or logistics operators, would significantly affect our ability to manufacture or sell our products, which would result in a substantial loss of sales and revenue and a substantial harm to our operating results. for example, prior to the 2011 flooding in thailand, all of wd's internal slider capacity and 60% of wd's hard drive manufacturing capacity was in thailand. as a result of the flooding in thailand, wd's facilities were inundated and temporarily shut down. during that period, wd's ability to manufacture hard drives was significantly constrained, adversely affecting wd's business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the concentration of our manufacturing sites could exacerbate the negative impacts resulting from localized labor unrest or other employment issues. a significant event that impacts any of our manufacturing sites, or the sites of our customers or suppliers, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture or sell our products, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. we may incur losses beyond the limits of, or outside the scope of, the coverage of our insurance policies. there can be no assurance that in the future we will be able to maintain existing insurance coverage or that premiums will not increase substantially. due to market availability, pricing or other reasons, we may elect not to purchase insurance coverage or to purchase only limited coverage. we maintain limited insurance coverage and, in some cases, no coverage at all, for natural disasters and environmental damages, as these types of insurance are sometimes not available or available only at a prohibitive cost. we depend upon toshiba to obtain and maintain sufficient property, business interruption and other insurance for flash ventures. if toshiba fails to do so, we could suffer significant unreimbursable losses, and such failure could also cause flash ventures to breach various financing covenants. manufacturing, marketing and selling our products globally subjects us to numerous risks. currently, a large portion of our revenue is derived from our international operations, and many of our products and components are produced overseas. our revenue and future growth is significantly dependent on the growth of international markets, and we may face difficulties in entering or maintaining international sales markets. we are subject to risks associated with our global manufacturing operations and global marketing and sales efforts, as well as risks associated with our utilization of and reliance on contract manufacturers, including: obtaining requisite governmental permits and approvals, compliance with foreign laws and regulations, changes in foreign laws and regulations; the need to comply with regulations on international business, including the foreign corrupt practices act, the united kingdom bribery act 2010, the anti-bribery laws of other countries and rules regarding conflict minerals; currency exchange rate fluctuations or restrictions; political and economic instability, civil unrest and natural disasters; limited transportation availability, delays, and extended time required for shipping, which risks may be compounded in periods of price declines; higher freight rates; labor challenges, including difficulties finding and retaining talent or responding to labor disputes or disruptions; trade restrictions or higher tariffs and fees, import and export restriction including on encryption technology, and complex customs regulations; copyright levies or similar fees or taxes imposed in european and other countries; 27 table of contents exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations; increasing labor and overhead costs; weaker protection of ip rights; difficulties in managing international operations, including appropriate internal controls; and loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities. as a result of these risks, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business and operating results. recent terrorist incidents around the world and the continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility have created uncertainty in the financial and insurance markets and have significantly increased the political, economic and social instability in some of the geographic areas in which we, our suppliers or our customers operate. additionally, it is uncertain what impact the reactions to such acts by various governmental agencies and security regulators worldwide will have on shipping costs. acts of terrorism, either domestically or abroad, could create further uncertainties and instability. to the extent this results in disruption or delays of our manufacturing capabilities, r&amp;d activities (including our operations in israel) or shipments of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. any of these events could also increase volatility in the u.s. and world financial markets, which could have a negative effect on our stock price and may limit the capital resources available to us and our customers or suppliers, or adversely affect consumer confidence. sudden disruptions to the availability of air transportation, or ocean or land freight lanes, could have an impact on our operations. we generally ship our products to our customers, and receive shipments from our suppliers, via air, ocean or land freight. the sudden unavailability or disruption of air transportation, cargo operations or ocean, rail or truck freight lanes caused by, among other things, labor difficulties or disputes, severe weather patterns or other natural disasters, or political instability or civil unrest, could impact our operating results by impairing our ability to timely and efficiently receive shipments from our suppliers or deliver our products. if our technology infrastructure, systems or products are compromised, damaged or interrupted by cyber attacks, data security breaches, other security problems, security vulnerabilities or design defects, or sustain system failures, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. we experience cyber attacks of varying degrees on our technology infrastructure and systems and, as a result, unauthorized parties have obtained in the past, and may in the future obtain, access to our computer systems and networks. the technology infrastructure and systems of our suppliers, vendors and partners may also experience such attacks. cyber attacks can include computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, worms, and other malicious software programs or other attacks, covert introduction of malware to computers and networks, impersonation of authorized users, and efforts to discover and exploit any security vulnerabilities or security weaknesses, as well as intentional or unintentional acts by employees or other insiders with access privileges, intentional acts of vandalism by third parties and sabotage. we believe cyber attack attempts are increasing in number and that cyber attackers are developing increasingly sophisticated systems and means to not only attack systems, but also to evade detection or to obscure their activities. our products are also targets for cyber attacks. while some of our products contain encryption or security algorithms to protect third-party content or user-generated data stored on our products, these products could still be hacked or the encryption schemes could be compromised, breached, or circumvented by motivated and sophisticated attackers. we have agreed with certain customers and strategic partners, including toshiba, to undertake certain commitments to promote information security, and we may be liable to toshiba or such other parties if we fail to meet our cyber security commitments. in addition, our technology infrastructure and systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss and telecommunications failures. further, our products contain sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that may contain security problems, security vulnerabilities, or defects in design or manufacture, including bugs and other problems that could interfere with the intended operation of our products. 28 table of contents if efforts to breach our infrastructure, systems or products are successful or we are unable to protect against these risks, we could suffer interruptions, delays, or cessation of operations of our systems, and loss or misuse of proprietary or confidential information, ip, or sensitive or personal information. breaches of our infrastructure, systems or products could also cause our customers and other affected third parties to suffer loss or misuse of proprietary or confidential information, ip, or sensitive or personal information, and could harm our relationships with customers and other third parties. as a result, we could experience additional costs, indemnification claims, litigation, and damage to our brand and reputation. all of these consequences could harm our reputation and our business and materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. if we fail to identify, manage, complete and integrate acquisitions, investment opportunities or other significant transactions, which are a key part of our growth strategy, it may adversely affect our future results. we seek to be an industry-leading developer, manufacturer and provider of innovative storage solutions, balancing our core hard drive and flash memory business with growing investments in newer areas that we believe will provide us with higher growth opportunities. acquisitions of, investment opportunities in, or other significant transactions with companies that are complementary to our business are a key part of our overall business strategy. for example, we have completed the acquisitions of sandisk (in may 2016), amplidata (in march 2015), virident systems, inc. (in october 2013) and stec, inc. (in september 2013). in order to pursue this part of our growth strategy successfully, we must continue to identify attractive acquisition or investment opportunities, successfully complete the transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as integration of the acquired company or employees. we may not be able to continue to identify or complete appealing acquisition or investment opportunities given the intense competition for these transactions. we are also subject to certain covenants in our debt agreements which place limits on our ability to complete acquisitions and investments. even if we identify and complete suitable corporate transactions, we may not be able to successfully address any integration challenges in a timely manner, or at all. failing to successfully integrate or realign our business to take advantage of efficiencies or reduce redundancies of an acquisition may result in not realizing all or any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. in addition, failing to achieve the financial model projections for an acquisition may result in the incurrence of impairment charges and other expenses, both of which could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. acquisitions and investments may also result in the issuance of equity securities that may be dilutive to our stockholders and the issuance of additional indebtedness which would put additional pressure on liquidity. furthermore, we may agree to provide continuing service obligations or enter into other agreements in order to obtain certain regulatory approvals of our corporate transactions, and failure to satisfy these additional obligations could result in our failing to obtain regulatory approvals or the imposition of additional obligations on us, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. the loss of our key executive management, staff and skilled employees, the inability to hire and integrate new employees or decisions to realign our business could negatively impact our business prospects. our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key management, staff and skilled employees, many of whom would be extremely difficult to replace. global competition for skilled employees in the data storage industry is intense and, as we attempt to move to a position of technology leadership in the storage industry, our business success becomes increasingly dependent on our ability to retain our key staff and skilled employees, to attract, integrate and retain new skilled employees, including employees from acquisitions, and to make decisions to realign our business to take advantage of efficiencies or reduce redundancies. volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price and the overall markets may adversely affect our ability to retain key staff or skilled employees who have received equity compensation. additionally, because a substantial portion of our key employees' compensation is placed at risk and linked to the performance of our business, when our operating results are negatively impacted, we are at a competitive disadvantage for retaining and hiring key management, staff and skilled employees versus other companies that pay a relatively higher fixed salary. if we lose our existing key management, staff or skilled employees, or are unable to hire and integrate new key management, staff or skilled employees, or if we fail to implement succession plans for our key management or staff, our operating results would likely be harmed. furthermore, if we do not realize the anticipated benefits of our intended realignment after we make decisions regarding our personnel and implement our realignment plans, our operating results could be adversely affected. we and certain of our officers are at times involved in litigation, including ip, antitrust and securities litigation, which may be costly, may divert the efforts of our key personnel and could result in adverse court rulings, which could materially harm our business. we are involved in litigation, including cases involving our ip rights and those of others, antitrust and commercial matters, putative securities class action suits and other actions. we are the plaintiff in some of these actions and the defendant in others. some of the actions seek injunctive relief, including injunctions against the sale of our products and substantial monetary damages, which if granted or awarded, could materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results. 29 table of contents litigation is subject to inherent risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. if we receive an adverse judgment in any litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages and cease certain practices or activities, including the manufacture, use and sale of products. with or without merit, litigation can be complex, can extend for a protracted period of time, can be very expensive and the expense can be unpredictable. litigation initiated by us could also result in counter-claims against us, which could increase the costs associated with the litigation and result in our payment of damages or other judgments against us. in addition, litigation, and any related publicity, may divert the efforts and attention of some of our key personnel. litigation may also harm the market prices of our securities. we may be obligated to indemnify our current or former directors or employees, or former directors or employees of companies that we have acquired, in connection with litigation or regulatory investigations. these liabilities could be substantial and may include, among other things: the costs of defending lawsuits against these individuals; the cost of defending stockholder derivative suits; the cost of governmental, law enforcement or regulatory investigations; civil or criminal fines and penalties; legal and other expenses; and expenses associated with the remedial measures, if any, which may be imposed. we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the u.s. and other countries relating to the collection, use, sharing, and security of third-party data including personal data, and our failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could subject us to proceedings by governmental entities or others and cause us to incur penalties, significant legal liability, or loss of customers, loss of revenue, and reputational harm . we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the u.s. and other countries relating to the collection, use, and security of third-party data including data that relates to or identifies an individual person. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, and among us, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations. our possession and use of third-party data, including personal data and employee data in conducting our business subjects us to legal and regulatory burdens that may require us to notify vendors, customers or employees or other parties with which we have commercial relations of a data security breach and to respond to regulatory inquiries and to enforcement proceedings. global privacy and data protection legislation, enforcement, and policy activity in this area are rapidly expanding and evolving, and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. compliance requirements and even our inadvertent failure to comply with applicable laws may cause us to incur substantial costs, subject us to proceedings by governmental entities or others, and cause us to incur penalties or other significant legal liability, or lead us to change our business practices. the nature of our industry and its reliance on ip and other proprietary information subjects us and our suppliers, customers and partners to the risk of significant litigation. the data storage industry has been characterized by significant litigation. this includes litigation relating to patent and other ip rights, product liability claims and other types of litigation. we have historically been involved in frequent disputes regarding patent and other ip rights, and we have in the past received, and we may in the future receive, communications from third parties asserting that certain of our products, processes or technologies infringe upon their patent rights, copyrights, trademark rights or other ip rights. we may also receive claims of potential infringement if we attempt to license ip to others. ip risks increase when we enter into new markets where we have little or no ip protection as a defense against litigation. the complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of ip litigation increase the ip risks we face. litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. moreover, the results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may result in adverse rulings or decisions. we may be subject to injunctions, enter into settlements or be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. if we incorporate third-party technology into our products or if claims or actions are asserted against us for alleged infringement of the ip of others, we may be required to obtain a license or cross-license, modify our existing technology or design a new non-infringing technology. such licenses or design modifications can be extremely costly. we evaluate notices of alleged patent infringement and notices of patents from patent holders that we receive from time to time. we may decide to settle a claim or action against us, which settlement could be costly. we may also be liable for any past infringement. if there is an adverse ruling against us in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued barring production or sale of any infringing product. it could also result in a damage award equal to a reasonable royalty or lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement, treble damages. any of these results would increase our costs and harm our operating results. in addition, our suppliers, customers and partners are subject to similar risks of litigation, and a material, adverse ruling against a supplier, customer or partner could negatively impact our business. moreover, from time to time, we agree to indemnify certain of our suppliers and customers for alleged ip infringement. the scope of such indemnity varies but may include indemnification for direct and consequential damages and expenses, including attorneys' fees. we may be engaged in litigation as a result of these indemnification obligations. third party claims for patent infringement are excluded from coverage under our insurance policies. a future obligation to indemnify our customers or suppliers may harm our business, financial condition and operating results. 30 table of contents our reliance on ip and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients of our business could be copied by competitors. our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary nature of our technology, including non-patentable ip such as our process technology. we primarily rely on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. there can be no assurance that our existing patents will continue to be held valid, if challenged, or that they will have sufficient scope or strength to protect us. it is also possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose, illegally or otherwise, our proprietary technologies and processes, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. if a competitor is able to reproduce or otherwise capitalize on our technology despite the safeguards we have in place, it may be difficult, expensive or impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. there are entities whom we believe may infringe our ip. enforcement of our rights often requires litigation. if we bring a patent infringement action and are not successful, our competitors would be able to use similar technology to compete with us. moreover, the defendant in such an action may successfully countersue us for infringement of their patents or assert a counterclaim that our patents are invalid or unenforceable. also, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our ip to the same extent as do u.s. laws. in addition to patent protection of ip rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. we rely upon employee, consultant and vendor non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. however, any of our registered or unregistered ip rights may be challenged or exploited by others in the industry, which could harm our operating results. the success of our branded products depends in part on the positive image that consumers have of our brands. we believe the popularity of our brands makes them a target of counterfeiting or imitation, with third parties attempting to pass off counterfeit products as our products. any occurrence of counterfeiting, imitation or confusion with our brands could adversely affect our reputation and impair the value of our brands, which in turn could negatively impact sales of our branded products, our share and our gross margin, as well as increase our administrative costs related to brand protection and counterfeit detection and prosecution. the costs of compliance with state, federal and international legal and regulatory requirements, such as environmental, labor, trade, health, safety, anti-corruption and tax regulations, customers' standards of corporate citizenship, and industry and coalition standards, such as those established by the electronics industry citizenship coalition, could cause an increase in our operating costs. we are subject to, and may become subject to additional, state, federal and international laws and regulations governing our environmental, labor, trade, health, safety, anti-corruption and tax practices. these laws and regulations, particularly those applicable to our international operations, are or may be complex, extensive and subject to change. we will need to ensure that we and our suppliers and partners timely comply with such laws and regulations, which may result in an increase in our operating costs. legislation has been, and may in the future be, enacted in locations where we manufacture or sell our products. in addition, climate change and financial reform legislation is a significant topic of discussion and has generated and may continue to generate federal, international or other regulatory responses in the near future. if we or our suppliers or partners fail to timely comply with applicable legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our products or we may face increased operating costs as a result of taxes, fines or penalties, or legal liability and reputational damage, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. in connection with our compliance with environmental laws and regulations, as well as our compliance with industry and coalition environmental initiatives, such as those established by the electronics industry citizenship coalition, the standards of business conduct required by some of our customers, and our commitment to sound corporate citizenship in all aspects of our business, we could incur substantial compliance and operating costs and be subject to disruptions to our operations and logistics. in addition, if we were found to be in violation of these laws or noncompliant with these initiatives or standards of conduct, we could be subject to governmental fines, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation and corporate brand which could cause our financial condition and operating results to suffer. 31 table of contents conflict minerals regulations may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain components and metals contained in our products. in august 2012, the sec adopted rules establishing diligence and disclosure requirements regarding the use and source of gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten, commonly referred to as 3tg or conflict minerals, that are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured by public companies. these rules require us to determine and report annually whether such 3tg originated from the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country. these rules could affect our ability to source components that contain 3tg, or 3tg generally, at acceptable prices and could impact the availability of such components or 3tg, since there may be only a limited number of suppliers of conflict free 3tg. our customers, including our oem customers, may require, and some of our customers have notified us that they require, that our products contain only conflict free 3tg, and our revenues and margins may be harmed if we are unable to meet this requirement at a reasonable price, or at all, or are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting this requirement. additionally, we may suffer reputational harm with our customers and other stakeholders and challenges from government regulators if our products are not conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of the 3tg contained in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. we could incur significant costs to the extent that we are required to make changes to products, processes, or sources of supply due to the foregoing requirements or pressures. to the extent that conflict minerals legislation is adopted by the european commission, canada or any other jurisdiction, these risks could increase. violation of applicable laws, including labor or environmental laws, and certain other practices by our suppliers, customers or partners could harm our business. we expect our suppliers, customers and partners to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including labor and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required standards of conduct. while our internal operating guidelines promote ethical business practices, we do not control our suppliers, customers, partners or their labor or environmental practices. the violation of labor, environmental or other laws by any of them, or divergence of their business practices from those generally accepted as ethical, could harm our business by: interrupting or otherwise disrupting the shipment of our product components; damaging our reputation; forcing us to find alternate component sources; reducing demand for our products (for example, through a consumer boycott); or exposing us to potential liability for our suppliers', customers' or partners' wrongdoings. because of high debt levels, we may not be able to service our debt obligations in accordance with their terms. as of july 1, 2016, our total indebtedness was $17.5 billion, and we had $1.0 billion of additional borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility. our ability to meet our expense and debt service obligations contained in our debt agreements will depend on our available cash and our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in laws or regulations, industry conditions, industry supply and demand balance, customer preferences, the success of our products and pressure from competitors. if we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or should we fail to comply with our financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness, we may be required to refinance all or part of our debt, sell important strategic assets at unfavorable prices, incur additional indebtedness or issue common stock or other equity securities. we may not be able to, at any given time, refinance our debt, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness or issue equity securities on terms acceptable to us, in amounts sufficient to meet our needs or at all. if we are able to raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, such issuance would also result in dilution to our shareholders. our inability to service our debt obligations or refinance our debt could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. in addition, our debt obligations may limit our ability to make required investments in capacity, technology or other areas of our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our secured indebtedness, the holder of such debt could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. 32 table of contents the terms of the agreements governing our indebtedness may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to pursue our business strategies, and could adversely affect our capital resources, financial condition and liquidity. the agreements that govern our indebtedness contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests, including, among other things, restrictions on our ability to: incur, assume or guarantee additional indebtedness; declare or pay dividends or make other distributions with respect to, or purchase or otherwise acquire or retire for value, equity interests; make principal payments on, or redeem or repurchase, subordinated debt; make loans, advances or other investments; incur liens; sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; purchase assets, make investments, complete acquisitions, consolidate or merge with or into, or sell all or substantially all of our assets to, another person; and enter into transactions with affiliates. due to these restrictions, we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate our business during general economic or business downturns, and we may be unable to compete effectively or take advantage of new opportunities to grow our business. in addition, our credit facilities require us to comply with certain financial maintenance covenants. our ability to satisfy these financial maintenance covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that we will meet them. the indebtedness and these restrictive covenants may have the effect, among other things, of limiting our flexibility in the conduct of our business and making us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions. a breach of the covenants under these agreements could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness, which, if not cured or waived, could result in us having to repay our borrowings or repay our notes before their due dates. such default may allow the debt holders to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt, leases, or other obligations to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. if we are forced to refinance these borrowings or our notes on less favorable terms or if we were to experience difficulty in refinancing the debt prior to maturity, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially affected. in addition, an event of default under our credit facilities may permit the lenders under our credit facilities to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under such credit facilities. if we are unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our credit facilities and our senior secured notes, those lenders may be able to proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. in the event our lenders or holders of notes accelerate the repayment of such borrowings, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness. any of the foregoing would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. flash ventures' equipment lease agreements contain covenants and other cancellation events, and cancellation of the leases would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. flash ventures sells and leases back from a consortium of financial institutions ( lessors ) a portion of its equipment and flash ventures has entered into equipment lease agreements, of which we and toshiba each guarantee half of the total outstanding obligations. as of july 1, 2016, the portion of outstanding flash ventures' lease obligations covered by our guarantees totaled approximately $1.15 billion, based upon the exchange rate at july 1, 2016. the equipment lease agreements contain covenants and cancellation events that are customary for japanese lease facilities and that relate to flash ventures and each of the guarantors. cancellation events relating to the guarantors include, among other things, an assignment of all or a substantial part of a guarantor's business, acceleration of other monetary debts of a guarantor above a specified threshold and certain financial covenants. the breach of a covenant or the occurrence of another cancellation event could result in an acceleration of the flash ventures' lease obligations. if a cancellation event were to occur, flash ventures would be required to negotiate a resolution with the lessors, as well as other parties to the lease transactions, to avoid cancellation and acceleration of the lease obligations. such resolution could include, among other things, supplementary security to be supplied by us, as guarantor, increased interest rates or waiver fees. if a cancellation event occurs and we fail to reach a resolution, we may be required to pay all or a portion of the outstanding lease obligations covered by our guarantees, which would significantly reduce our cash position and may force us to seek additional financing, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. 33 table of contents any decisions to reduce or discontinue paying cash dividends to our shareholders could cause the market price for our common stock to decline. we may modify, suspend or cancel our cash dividend policy in any manner and at any time. any reduction or discontinuance by us of the payment of quarterly cash dividends could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. moreover, in the event our payment of quarterly cash dividends are reduced or discontinued, our failure or inability to resume paying cash dividends at historical levels could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations may negatively affect our operating results. because we manufacture and sell our products abroad, our revenue, cost of goods sold, margins, operating costs and cash flows are impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. if the u.s. dollar exhibits sustained weakness against most foreign currencies, the u.s. dollar equivalents of unhedged manufacturing costs could increase because a significant portion of our production costs are foreign-currency denominated. conversely, there would not be an offsetting impact to revenues since revenues are substantially u.s. dollar denominated. additionally, we negotiate and procure some of our component requirements in u.s. dollars from non-u.s. based vendors. if the u.s. dollar weakens against other foreign currencies, some of our component suppliers may increase the price they charge for their components in order to maintain an equivalent profit margin. in addition, our purchases of nand flash memory from flash ventures and our investment in flash ventures are denominated in japanese yen. if the japanese yen appreciates against the u.s. dollar, our cost of purchasing nand flash wafers and the cost to us of future funding of flash ventures would increase, and the value of our investments denominated in japanese yen would be higher, increasing our exposure to asset impairment. if any of these events occur, they would have a negative impact on our operating results. prices for our products are substantially u.s. dollar denominated, even when sold to customers that are located outside the united states. therefore, as a substantial portion of our sales are from countries outside the united states, fluctuations in currency exchanges rates, most notably the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against other foreign currencies, contribute to variations in sales of products in impacted jurisdictions and could adversely impact demand and revenue growth. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside the united states. we attempt to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into short-term, foreign exchange contracts. however, these contracts do not cover our full exposure, and can be canceled by the counterparty if currency controls are put in place. thus, our decisions and hedging strategy with respect to currency risks may not be successful and harm our operating results. further, the ability to enter into foreign exchange contracts with financial institutions is based upon our available credit from such institutions and compliance with covenants and other restrictions. operating losses, third party downgrades of our credit rating or instability in the worldwide financial markets could impact our ability to effectively manage our foreign currency exchange rate risk. hedging also exposes us to the credit risk of our counterparty financial institutions. increases in our customers' credit risk could result in credit losses and term extensions under existing contracts with customers with credit losses could result in an increase in our operating costs. some of our oem customers have adopted a subcontractor model that requires us to contract directly with companies, such as odms, that provide manufacturing and fulfillment services to our oem customers. because these subcontractors are generally not as well capitalized as our direct oem customers, this subcontractor model exposes us to increased credit risks. our agreements with our oem customers may not permit us to increase our product prices to alleviate this increased credit risk. additionally, as we attempt to expand our oem and distribution channel sales into emerging economies such as brazil, russia, india and china, the customers with the most success in these regions may have relatively short operating histories, making it more difficult for us to accurately assess the associated credit risks. any credit losses we may suffer as a result of these increased risks, or as a result of credit losses from any significant customer, especially in situations where there are term extensions under existing contracts with such customers, would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. our operating results fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from period to period due to many factors, which may result in a significant decline in our stock price. our quarterly operating results may be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a number of other factors including: weakness in demand for one or more product categories; the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major customers, loss of major customers; our product mix; 34 table of contents reductions in the asps of our products and lower margins; excess output, capacity or inventory, resulting in lower asps, financial charges or impairments, or insufficient output, capacity or inventory, resulting in lost revenue opportunities; inability to successfully transition to 3d nand or other technology developments, or other failure to reduce product costs to keep pace with reduction in asps; manufacturing delays or interruptions; delays in design wins or customer qualifications, acceptance by customers of competing products in lieu of our products; success of our partnerships and joint ventures, in particular the volume, timing and cost of wafer production at flash ventures, and our success in managing the relationships with our strategic partners; inability to realize the potential benefits of our acquisitions and the success of our integration efforts; ability to penetrate new markets for our storage solutions; variations in the cost of and lead times for components for our products, disruptions of our supply chain; limited availability of components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; seasonal and other fluctuations in demand often due to technological advances; increase in costs due to warranty claims; higher costs as a result of currency exchange rate fluctuations; and availability and rates of transportation. we often ship a high percentage of our total quarterly sales in the third month of the quarter, which makes it difficult for us to forecast our financial results before the end of the quarter. as a result of the above or other factors, our forecast of operating results for the quarter may differ materially from our actual financial results. if our results of operations fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, it could cause an immediate and significant decline in our stock price. we have made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting, and actual results may differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions. we have made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting. the highly technical nature of our products and the rapidly changing market conditions with which we deal means that actual results may differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions. these changes have impacted our financial results in the past and may continue to do so in the future. key estimates and assumptions for us include: price protection adjustments and other sales promotions and allowances on products sold to retailers, resellers and distributors; inventory adjustments for write-down of inventories to lower of cost or market value (net realizable value); testing of goodwill and other long-lived assets for impairment; reserves for doubtful accounts; accruals for product returns; accruals for warranty costs related to product defects; accruals for litigation and other contingencies; liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits; and expensing of stock-based compensation. in addition, changes in existing accounting or taxation rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements or taxation practice could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 35 table of contents the market price of our common stock is volatile. the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. factors that may significantly affect the market price of our common stock include the following: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, including those resulting from the seasonality of our business; announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors, which may decrease the volume and profitability of sales of our existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence; new products introduced by us or our competitors; strategic actions by us or competitors, such as acquisitions and restructurings; periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price erosion resulting from competitive pressures or industry consolidation; developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights, and any litigation; proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments or anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us or our competitors; conditions and trends in the hard drive, solid state storage, flash memory, computer, mobile, data and content management, storage and communication industries; contraction in our operating results or growth rates that are lower than our previous high growth-rate periods; failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates or changes in financial estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts relating specifically to us or the storage industry in general; announcements relating to dividends and share repurchases; and macroeconomic conditions that affect the market generally and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for our industry. in addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the stock prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the stock of public companies, including us. these broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of shares of our common stock. for example, expectations concerning general economic conditions may cause the stock market to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations from time to time that particularly affect the stock prices of many high technology companies. these fluctuations may be unrelated to the operating performance of the companies. securities class action lawsuits are often brought against companies after periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. a number of such suits have been filed against us in the past, and should any new lawsuits be filed, such matters could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources and management's attention. the resale of shares of common stock issued to hitachi in connection with our acquisition of hgst could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. on march 8, 2012, as partial consideration for our acquisition of hgst, we issued 25 million shares of our common stock to hitachi. on each of november 6, 2013 and november 13, 2014, hitachi completed a secondary offering of 12.5 million and 6.25 million, respectively, of these shares. future sales of the remaining 6.25 million shares of our common stock held by hitachi could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 36 table of contents our cash balances and investment portfolio are subject to various risks, any of which could adversely impact our financial position. given the international footprint of our business, we have both domestic and international cash balances and investments. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, security types, and maturities. these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, political, sovereign and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events that affect global financial markets. a material part of our investment portfolio consists of u.s. government securities and bank deposits. if global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods of decline, or if there is a downgrade of the u.s. government credit rating due to an actual or threatened default on government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that our investments may experience an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results. a failure of any of these financial institutions in which deposits exceed fdic limits could also have an adverse impact on our financial position. in addition, i f we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to repay our indebtedness, fund acquisitions, pay dividends, or repurchase shares of our common stock, we may choose or be required to increase our borrowings, if available, or to repatriate funds to the united states at a substantial tax cost. if our internal controls are found to be ineffective, our stock price may be adversely affected. our most recent evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of july 1, 2016, in compliance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, our internal control over financial reporting was effective. if our internal control over financial reporting is found to be ineffective or if we identify a material weakness in our financial reporting in future periods, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, we may be required to restate our financial results, our access to capital markets may be limited, and we may be subject to sanctions from regulatory agencies and the nasdaq global select market, each of which may adversely affect our stock price. from time to time we may become subject to income tax examinations or similar proceedings, and as a result we may incur additional costs and expenses or owe additional taxes, interest and penalties that may negatively impact our operating results. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and certain foreign jurisdictions, and our determination of our tax liability is subject to review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities. for example, as we have previously disclosed, we are under examination by the internal revenue service for certain fiscal years and in connection with that examination, we received a revenue agent's report seeking certain adjustments to income as disclosed in part ii, item 8, note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. although we believe our tax positions are properly supported, the final timing and resolution of any tax examinations are subject to significant uncertainty and could result in our having to pay amounts to the applicable tax authority in order to resolve examination of our tax positions, which could result in an increase or decrease of our current estimate of unrecognized tax benefits and may negatively impact our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we are subject to risks associated with loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities. portions of our operations are subject to a reduced tax rate or are free of tax under various tax holidays that expire in whole or in part from time to time, or may be terminated if certain conditions are not met. although many of these holidays may be extended when certain conditions are met, we may not be able to meet such conditions. if the tax holidays are not extended, or if we fail to satisfy the conditions of the reduced tax rate, then our effective tax rate could increase in the future. in addition, any actions by us to repatriate non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes may impact our effective tax rate. changes in tax laws could increase our worldwide tax rate and materially affect our financial position and results of operations. tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws and regulations are passed and new interpretations of the laws are issued or applied. the current u.s. administration and key members of congress have made public statements indicating that tax reform is a priority, and certain changes to the u.s. tax laws and regulations have been proposed. in addition, many countries in the european union, as well as a number of other countries and organizations such as the organization for economic cooperation and development, are actively considering changes to existing tax laws that, if enacted, could increase our tax obligations in many countries where we do business. due to the large scale of our u.s. and international business activities, many of these proposed changes to the taxation of our activities, if enacted, could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 58 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk disclosure about foreign currency risk although the majority of our transactions are in u.s. dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. we purchase short-term, foreign exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. the purpose of entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. the contract maturity dates do not exceed 12 months. we do not purchase foreign exchange contracts for speculative or trading purposes. for additional information, see part ii, item 8, notes 1 and 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. as of july 1, 2016 , we had outstanding the foreign exchange contracts presented in the following table. the changes in fair values of these foreign exchange contracts would be largely offset in other income (expense) by corresponding changes in the fair values of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. contract amount weighted average contract rate (1) unrealized gain (loss) (in millions, except weighted average contract rate) foreign exchange contracts: cash flow hedges: japanese yen $ 922 113.08 $ 61 malaysian ringgit 118 4.20 5 philippine peso 38 47.33 singapore dollar 36 1.41 1 thailand baht 487 35.82 7 fair value hedges: british pound sterling $ 18 0.71 $ 1 european euro 969 0.86 (27 ) japanese yen 317 105.96 10 philippine peso 23 47.00 singapore dollar 13 1.35 thailand baht 118 35.24 1 malaysian ringgit 15 4.06 (1) expressed in units of foreign currency per u.s. dollar. in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , total net realized transaction and foreign exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to our consolidated financial statements. notwithstanding our efforts to mitigate some foreign exchange risks, we do not hedge all of our foreign currency exposures, and there can be no assurance that our mitigating activities related to the exposures that we hedge will adequately protect us against risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. 58 table of contents disclosure about other market risks variable interest rate risk borrowings under our term loan a facility and our revolving credit facility bear interest at a rate per annum, at our option, of either an adjusted libor rate (subject to a 0.0% floor) plus an applicable margin of 2.0% or at a base rate plus an applicable margin of 1.00%. beginning in september 2016, the applicable margin for the borrowings under our term loan a facility and our revolving credit facility will range, depending on our leverage, from 1.50% to 2.25% for libor loans and from 0.50% to 1.25% for base rate loans. borrowings under the u.s. term loan b tranche bear interest at a rate per annum, at our option, of either an adjusted libor rate (subject to a 0.75% floor) plus an applicable margin of 5.5% or at a base rate plus an applicable margin of 4.50%. borrowings under the euro term loan b tranche bear interest at a rate per annum equal to an adjusted euribor rate (subject to a 0.75% floor) plus an applicable margin of 5.25%. borrowings under our senior secured bridge credit agreement bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at our option, either an adjusted libor rate (subject to a 0.0% floor) plus an applicable margin of 2.00% or a base rate plus an applicable margin of 1.0%. as of july 1, 2016 , we had $8.9 billion of long-term variable rate debt outstanding, and a one percent increase in the variable rate of interest, subject to each loan specific floor, would have increased annual interest expense by $70 million . for additional information, see part ii, item 8, note 3 of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. 59 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors the business, financial condition and operating results of the company can be affected by a number of risks and uncertainties, whether currently known or unknown, any one or more of which could, directly or indirectly, cause the company's actual results of operations and financial condition to vary materially from past, or from anticipated future, results of operations and financial condition. the risks and uncertainties discussed below are not the only ones facing our business, but do represent those risks and uncertainties that we believe are material to us. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or the market price of our common stock. adverse global economic conditions and credit market uncertainty could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. adverse global economic conditions and uncertain conditions in the credit market have had, and in the future could have, a significant adverse effect on our company and on the storage industry as a whole. several factors contribute to these conditions and this uncertainty, including, but not limited to, volatility in the equity, credit and other financial markets and real estate markets, slower growth in certain geographic regions, lower levels of consumer liquidity, risk of default on sovereign debt, higher interest rates, materials and component cost increases, political uncertainty and other macroeconomic factors, such as the june 2016 referendum by british voters to exit the european union, commonly referred to as brexit, and changes to policies, rules and regulations which may be proposed or implemented by the u.s. president and his administration. some of the risks and uncertainties we face as a result of these conditions include the following: volatile demand and supplier risk. our direct and indirect customers may delay or reduce their purchases of our products and systems containing our products. in addition, many of our customers rely on credit financing to purchase our products. if negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers' access to credit, product orders may decrease, which could result in lower revenue. likewise, if our suppliers, sub-suppliers and sub-contractors (collectively referred to as suppliers ), or partners face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may be unable to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products. these actions could result in reductions in our revenue and increased operating costs, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. restructuring activities. if demand for our products slows as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions, we may undertake restructuring activities to realign our cost structure with softening demand. the occurrence of restructuring activities could result in impairment charges and other expenses, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. credit volatility and loss of receivables. we extend credit and payment terms to some of our customers. in addition to ongoing credit evaluations of our customers' financial condition, we seek to mitigate our credit risk from time to time by purchasing credit insurance on certain of our accounts receivable balances. as a result of the continued uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions, however, we may find it increasingly difficult to be able to insure these accounts receivable. we could suffer significant losses if a customer whose accounts receivable we have not insured, or have underinsured, fails to pay us on their accounts receivable balances. additionally, negative or uncertain global economic conditions increase the risk that if a customer we have insured fails to pay us on their accounts receivable, the financial condition of the insurance carrier for such customer account may have also deteriorated such that it cannot cover our loss. a significant loss of accounts receivable that we cannot recover through credit insurance would have a negative impact on our financial condition. 12 table of contents impairment charges. we test goodwill for impairment annually as of the first day of our fourth quarter and at other times if events have occurred or circumstances exist that indicate the carrying value of goodwill may no longer be recoverable. negative or uncertain global economic conditions could result in circumstances, such as a sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization or a decrease in our forecasted cash flows, indicating that the carrying value of our long-lived assets or goodwill may be impaired. if we are required to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements because of an impairment of our long-lived assets or goodwill, our results of operations will be adversely affected. we rely substantially on our business ventures with toshiba for the supply of nand-flash memory, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results . we are dependent on our ventures with toshiba to develop and manufacture nand-flash memory products for our nand-flash memory supply, and therefore our business, financial condition and operating results, and our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from our acquisition of sandisk corporation ( sandisk ), pursuant to an agreement and plan of merger (the merger ), will be dependent on the success of flash ventures. a majority of our nand-flash memory is supplied by flash ventures, which limits our ability to respond to demand and supply changes. a failure to accurately forecast demand could cause us to over-invest or under-invest in technology transitions or the expansion of captive memory capacity in flash ventures. over-investment could result in excess supply, which could cause significant decreases in our product prices, significant excess, obsolete or lower of cost or net realizable value inventory write-downs or under-utilization charges, and the potential impairment of our investments in flash ventures. on the other hand, if we or toshiba under-invest in captive memory capacity or technology transitions, if we grow capacity more slowly than the rest of the industry, if our technology transitions do not occur on the timeline that we expect, if we encounter unanticipated difficulties in implementing these transitions, or if we implement technology transitions more slowly than our competitors, we may not have enough captive supply of the right type of memory or at all to meet demand on a timely and cost effective basis and we may lose opportunities for revenue, gross margin and share as a result. if our nand memory supply is limited, we may make strategic decisions with respect to the allocation of our supply among our products and customers, and these strategic allocation decisions may result in less favorable gross margin in the short term or damage certain customer relationships. growth of our nand-flash memory bit supply at a slower rate than the overall industry for an extended period of time would result in lowering our share which could limit our future opportunities and harm our financial results. we are also contractually obligated to pay for 50% of the fixed costs of flash ventures regardless of whether we purchase any wafers from flash ventures. furthermore, purchase orders placed with flash ventures and under the foundry arrangements with toshiba for up to three months are binding and cannot be canceled. therefore, once our purchase decisions have been made, our production costs for flash memory are fixed, and we may be unable to reduce costs to match any subsequent declines in pricing or demand, which would harm our gross margin. our limited ability to react to fluctuations in flash memory supply and demand makes our financial results particularly susceptible to variations from our forecasts and expectations. in addition, we partner with toshiba on the development of nand-flash technology, including the next technology transitions of nand-flash, as well as other non-volatile memory technology in support of flash ventures. these ventures are subject to various risks that could harm the value of our investments, our revenue and costs, our future rate of spending, our technology plans and our future growth opportunities. under the terms of our venture agreements with toshiba, which govern the operations of flash ventures, we have limited power to unilaterally direct most of the activities that most significantly impact flash ventures' performance. the integration of sandisk into our organization could complicate the process of reaching agreement with toshiba in a timely and favorable manner. we may not always agree with toshiba on our joint r&amp;d roadmap or expansions or conversions of production capacity. in addition, toshiba's financial position or shift in strategic priorities could adversely impact our business. flash ventures requires significant investments by both toshiba and us for technology transitions, including the transition to 3d nand, and capacity expansions. in march 2016, toshiba announced plans to construct a new wafer fab in yokkaichi, japan, to provide additional cleanroom space to support the continued conversion of 2d nand capacity to 3d nand, and we intend to participate in that wafer fab. although we have had discussions to extend the joint venture partnership with toshiba to the new wafer fab, there is no certainty as to when, and on what terms, we will participate with toshiba in any investment in equipment for the new wafer fab, if at all. failure to extend the joint venture partnership or failure to continue to secure and invest in additional cleanroom space to support the continued 3d nand transition could adversely impact our supply of captive nand-flash memory and financial results. if toshiba does not or we do not provide sufficient resources or have adequate access to credit, investments in flash ventures could be delayed or reduced. in addition, in the event that lease financings for flash ventures are not available on favorable terms or at all, more cash would be required to fund these investments. 13 table of contents toshiba has announced significant losses related to its u.s. nuclear business and substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern. due to toshiba's financial condition, toshiba's working capital and access to credit and capital markets are severely limited. toshiba could become unable to, or otherwise fail to, timely fund investments in flash ventures or our joint development efforts or fulfill its payment obligations to suppliers, which could harm flash ventures' operations, our joint technology roadmap and supplier relationships. lease financings guaranteed by both toshiba and us are not currently available to flash ventures on favorable terms and we are pursuing alternative forms of financing to fund our share of investments, which might not continue to be accessible. toshiba has also announced various efforts to stabilize its financial condition, including a possible sale of a majority or the entire stake in its memory business. according to toshiba, on april 1, 2017, it transferred its memory business, including its interests in flash ventures, to a newly formed affiliate as part of those efforts. on may 14, 2017, several of our sandisk subsidiaries filed a request for arbitration with the icc international court of arbitration seeking an order requiring toshiba to unwind the transfer to its affiliate, and injunctive relief preventing toshiba from further breaching the flash ventures agreements (copies of which are incorporated by reference into this annual report on form 10 k) by transferring its interests in flash ventures without sandisk's consent. numerous proceedings and actions related to flash ventures and our consent and other rights under the terms of the flash ventures agreements followed and are ongoing. please see part ii, item 8, note 17 , legal proceedings , of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10 k for a further description of these proceedings and actions. while we have asserted our consent rights under the terms of the flash ventures agreements with respect to transactions involving the transfer of toshiba's interests in flash ventures, our request for arbitration, legal proceedings, other potential litigation, a change in the management or control of flash ventures or of toshiba's memory business could lead to delays in decision-making, disputes, or changes in strategic direction that could adversely impact flash ventures, and therefore adversely affect our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. if a third party acquires any of toshiba's interests in flash ventures, that third party might not have the same interest that we do in protecting and growing flash ventures' business and might have conflicts of interest between itself and flash ventures or us. reduced investment in manufacturing capacity or research and development, or other misalignment between us and our partner or any third party acquirer on strategic direction, could impact flash ventures' ability to stay at the forefront of technological advancement. flash ventures' competitiveness could also be harmed by a mishandling or misuse of ip or other competitively sensitive confidential information regarding flash ventures, such as its technology roadmap, business or investment plans, by any acquirer or other third party that might gain access to such information during the bidding process. a failure by toshiba to successfully stabilize its financial condition could lead to insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings, which could result in flash ventures and related agreements being terminated early or modified unfavorably for us. we are monitoring and evaluating other potential impacts of toshiba's financial condition and efforts to sell its memory business on flash ventures and, in turn, on our own memory business and financial condition. the deterioration of our partner's financial condition could adversely affect the value of our investments in flash ventures and our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. integrating sandisk's operations with ours may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected and the anticipated benefits, synergies and cost savings of the merger may not be realized. the success of our acquisition of sandisk, including anticipated benefits, synergies and cost savings, will depend, in part, on our ability to successfully combine and integrate the businesses and culture of sandisk into our company. it is possible that the integration process will take longer than anticipated. in addition, the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, higher than expected costs, ongoing diversion of management attention, the disruption of our ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, vendors, partners and employees. if we experience difficulties with the integration process, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. in addition, the actual cost savings of the merger could be less than anticipated. additionally, the integration of sandisk's operations into our operations may also increase the risk that our internal controls are found to be ineffective. achieving the benefits of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the business and operations of sandisk successfully and efficiently with our business. the challenges involved in this integration, which will be complex and time-consuming, include, but are not limited to, the following: difficulties entering new markets or manufacturing in new geographies where we have no or limited direct prior experience; successfully managing relationships with our strategic partners and our combined supplier and customer base; 14 table of contents coordinating and integrating independent r&amp;d and engineering teams across technologies and product platforms to enhance product development while reducing costs; increased levels of investment in r&amp;d, manufacturing capability and technology enhancement relating to sandisk's business; successfully transitioning to 3d nand and future technologies; coordinating sales and marketing efforts to effectively position the combined company's capabilities and the direction of product development; difficulties in integrating the systems and processes of two companies with complex operations and multiple manufacturing sites; the increased scale and complexity of our operations resulting from the merger; retaining key employees; obligations that we have to counterparties of sandisk that arose as a result of the change in control of sandisk; and the diversion of management attention from other important business objectives. if we do not successfully manage these issues and the other challenges inherent in integrating an acquired business of the size and complexity of sandisk, then we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger and our revenue, expenses, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. our high level of debt may have an adverse impact on our liquidity, restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to business opportunities, and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. in connection with the merger, we substantially increased our indebtedness, which could adversely affect our ability to fulfill our obligations and have a negative impact on our financing options and liquidity position. as of june 30, 2017 , our total indebtedness was $13.36 billion in aggregate principal, and we had $1.00 billion of additional borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility. our high level of debt could have significant consequences, which include, but are not limited to, the following: limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, r&amp;d and other general corporate purposes; imposing financial and other restrictive covenants on our operations, including limiting our ability to (i) declare or pay dividends or purchase our common stock; (ii) purchase assets, make investments, complete acquisitions, consolidate or merge with or into, or sell all or substantially all of our assets to, another person; (iii) dispose of assets; (iv) incur liens; and (v) enter into transactions with affiliates; placing us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors carrying less debt; and making us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limiting our ability to withstand competitive pressures or take advantage of new opportunities to grow our business. 15 table of contents our ability to meet the debt service obligations contained in our debt agreements will depend on our available cash and our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors, including potential changes in laws or regulations, industry conditions, industry supply and demand balance, customer preferences, the success of our products and pressure from competitors. if we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or should we fail to comply with our financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness, causing an event of default under the applicable indebtedness, the debt holders could accelerate the related debt and that may result in the acceleration of any other debt, leases or other obligations to which a cross acceleration or cross-default provision applies. if we are required to repay our indebtedness before their due dates, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay such indebtedness and we may be required to refinance all or part of our debt, sell important strategic assets at unfavorable prices, incur additional indebtedness or issue common stock or other equity securities. we may not be able to, at any given time, refinance our debt, sell assets, incur additional indebtedness or issue equity securities on terms acceptable to us, in amounts sufficient to meet our needs or at all. our inability to service our debt obligations or refinance our debt could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our secured indebtedness, the holder of such debt could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. refinancing our indebtedness may also require us to expense previous debt issuance costs or to incur new debt issuance costs. in addition, our credit ratings impact the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, our cost of capital. our ratings reflect the opinions of the ratings agencies of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations. there can be no assurance that we will achieve a particular rating or maintain a particular rating in the future. we may from time to time seek to refinance the substantial indebtedness we incurred to finance the merger by issuing additional shares of our common stock in one or more securities offerings. these securities offerings may dilute our existing shareholders, reduce the value of our common stock, or both. because our decision to issue securities will depend on, among other things, market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of any future securities offerings. thus, holders of our common stock bear the risk of our future offerings diluting and potentially reducing the value of our common stock. we participate in a highly competitive industry that is subject to declining average selling prices ( asps ), volatile gross margins and significant shifts in market share, all of which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. demand for our devices, software and solutions that we offer to our customers, which we refer to in this item 1a as our products , depends in large part on the demand for systems (including personal computers ( pcs ) and mobile devices) manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems. the demand for systems has been volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand for our products in any given period. the price of nand-flash memory is influenced by, among other factors, the balance between supply and demand, including the effects of new fab capacity in the industry, macroeconomic factors, business conditions, technology transitions, conversion of industry dram capacity to nand, conversion of 2d nand capacity to 3d nand or other actions taken by us or our competitors. the price of hdds is influenced by, among other factors, the balance between supply and demand, including the effects of new fab capacity in the industry, macroeconomic factors, business conditions, technology transitions, and other actions taken by us or our competitors. the storage market has experienced periods of excess capacity, which can lead to liquidation of excess inventories and significant reductions in price. if these price changes occur unnecessarily or in an unexpected manner, there will likely be an adverse impact on our revenue and gross margins. in addition, we compete based on our ability to offer our customers competitive solutions that provide the most current and desired product and service features. we expect that competition will continue to be intense, and there is a risk that our competitors' products may be less costly, provide better performance or include additional features when compared to our products. our asps and gross margins also tend to decline when there is a shift in the mix of product sales, and sales of lower priced products increase relative to those of higher priced products. further, we face potential gross margin pressures resulting from our asps declining more rapidly than our cost of goods sold. rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and profitability of sales of existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence. these factors, along with others, may also result in significant shifts in market share among the industry's major participants, including a substantial decrease in our market share, all of which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. 16 table of contents our failure to accurately forecast market and customer demand for our products, or to quickly adjust to forecast changes, could adversely affect our business and financial results or operating efficiencies. the data storage industry faces difficulties in accurately forecasting market and customer demand for its products. the variety and volume of products we manufacture are based in part on these forecasts. accurately forecasting demand has become increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers in light of the volatility in global economic conditions and industry consolidation, resulting in less availability of historical market data for certain product segments. further, for many of our oems utilizing just-in-time inventory, we do not generally require firm order commitments and instead receive a periodic forecast of requirements, which may prove to be inaccurate. in addition, because our products are designed to be largely interchangeable with competitors' products, our demand forecasts may be impacted significantly by the strategic actions of our competitors. as forecasting demand becomes more difficult, the risk that our forecasts are not in line with demand increases. if our forecasts exceed actual market demand, then we could experience periods of product oversupply, excess inventory, and price decreases, which could impact our financial performance. if market demand increases significantly beyond our forecasts or beyond our ability to add manufacturing capacity, then we may not be able to satisfy customer product needs, possibly resulting in a loss of market share if our competitors are able to meet customer demands. in addition, some of our components have long lead-times, requiring us to place orders several months in advance of anticipated demand. such long lead-times increase the risk of excess inventory or loss of sales in the event our forecasts vary substantially from actual demand. we experience significant sales seasonality and cyclicality, which could cause our operating results to fluctuate. sales of computer systems, mobile devices, storage subsystems, gaming consoles and consumer electronics ( ce ) tend to be seasonal and cyclical, and therefore we expect to continue to experience seasonality and cyclicality in our business as we respond to variations in our customers' demand for our products. however, changes in seasonal and cyclical patterns have made it, and could continue to make it, more difficult for us to forecast demand, especially as a result of the current macroeconomic environment. changes in the product or channel mix of our business can also impact seasonal and cyclical patterns, adding complexity in forecasting demand. seasonality and cyclicality also may lead to higher volatility in our stock price. it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which seasonality and cyclicality may affect our stock price or business in future periods because of the rate and unpredictability of product transitions and new product introductions and macroeconomic conditions. our sales to the ce, cloud computing, network attached storage ( nas ), surveillance systems and enterprise markets, which have accounted for and may continue accounting for an increasing percentage of our overall revenue, may grow at a slower rate than current estimates or not at all, which could materially adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. the secular growth of digital data has resulted in a more diversified mix of revenue from the ce, cloud computing, nas, surveillance systems and enterprise markets. as sales into these markets have become a more significant portion of our revenue, events or circumstances that adversely impact demand in these markets, or our inability to address that demand successfully, could materially adversely impact our operating results. for example, demand in, or our sales to, these markets may be adversely affected by the following: mobile devices. there has been and continues to be a rapid growth in devices that do not contain a hard drive such as tablet computers and smart phones. as tablet computers and smart phones provide many of the same capabilities as pcs, they have displaced or materially affected, and we expect will continue to displace or materially affect, the demand for pcs. if we are not successful in adapting our product offerings to include disk drives or alternative storage solutions that address these devices, even after our acquisition of sandisk, demand for our products in these markets may decrease and our financial results could be materially adversely affected. in addition, global slowdown in the growth rate of mobile devices will also negatively impact our financial results. 17 table of contents enterprise. the enterprise storage space is comprised of customers with long design, qualification and test cycles prior to sales. we spend substantial time and resources in our sales process without any assurance that our efforts will produce any customer orders on the timelines or in the quantities we expect. these lengthy and uncertain processes also make it difficult for us to forecast demand and timing of customer orders. due to longer customer product cycles, we may not be able to transition customers to our leading edge products, which would prevent us from benefitting from the technology transitions that enable cost reductions, which may harm our gross margin. demand for our enterprise solutions from our hyperscale customers is correlated to large projects and expansions which can be sporadic, resulting in demand that is lumpy and less consistent than the consumer-driven demand for many of our solutions. hyperscale customers may place orders for significant volumes with short lead times that may be difficult for us to fulfill, and sales to hyperscale customers may negatively impact gross margins due to product mix and pricing, each of which could adversely affect our business. in addition, hyperscale companies may internally develop enterprise storage solutions that reduce the demand for our solutions. cloud computing. consumers traditionally have stored their data on their pc, often supplemented with personal external storage devices. most businesses also include similar local storage as a primary or secondary storage location. this storage is typically provided by hdds and increasingly ssds. with cloud computing, applications and data are hosted, accessed and processed through a third-party provider over a broadband internet connection, potentially reducing or eliminating the need for, among other things, significant storage inside the accessing electronic device. even if we are successful at increasing revenues from sales to cloud computing customers, if we are not successful in manufacturing compelling products to address the cloud computing opportunity, demand for our products in these other markets may decrease and our financial results could be materially adversely affected. demand for cloud computing solutions themselves may be volatile due to differing patterns of technology adoption and innovation, improved data storage efficiency by cloud computing service providers, and concerns about data protection by end users. obsolete inventory. in some cases, products we manufacture for these markets are uniquely configured for a single customer's application, creating a risk of obsolete inventory if anticipated demand is not actually realized. in addition, rapid technological change in our industry increases the risk of inventory obsolescence. macroeconomic conditions. consumer spending has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected in many regions due to negative macroeconomic conditions and high unemployment levels. please see the risk factor entitled adverse global economic conditions and credit market uncertainty could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition for additional risks and uncertainties relating to macroeconomic conditions. in addition, demand in these areas also could be negatively impacted by developments in the regulation and enforcement of digital rights management and the emergence of new technologies, such as data duplication, compression and storage virtualization. if we are not able to respond appropriately, these factors could lead to our customers' storage needs being satisfied at lower prices with lower capacity hard drives or solid-state storage products, thereby decreasing our revenue or putting us at a disadvantage to competing storage technologies. as a result, even with increasing aggregate demand for digital storage, if we fail to anticipate or timely respond to these developments in the demand for storage, our asps could decline, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. furthermore, our ability to accurately read and respond to market trends, such as trends relating to iot or big data, could harm our results. deterioration in the pc market may continue or accelerate, which could cause our operating results to suffer. while sales to non-pc markets are becoming a more significant source of revenue, sales to the pc market remain an important part of our business. we believe that sales of pcs have declined due to fundamental changes in the pc market, including the growth of alternative mobile devices and the lengthening of product life cycles, and that further deterioration of the pc market may continue or accelerate, which could cause our operating results and financial condition to suffer. additionally, if demand in the pc market is worse than expected as a result of these or other conditions, or demand for our products in the pc market decreases at a faster rate than expected, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. 18 table of contents selling to the retail market is an important part of our business, and if we fail to maintain and grow our market share or gain market acceptance of our branded products, our operating results could suffer. selling branded products is an important part of our business, and as our branded products revenue increases as a portion of our overall revenue, our success in the retail market becomes increasingly important to our operating results. our success in the retail market depends in large part on our ability to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation and to expand into and gain market acceptance of our products in multiple channels. we must successfully respond to the rapid change away from traditional advertising media, marketing and sales methods to the use of internet media and advertising, particularly social media, and online sales, or our brand and retail sales could be negatively affected. adverse publicity, whether or not justified, or allegations of product or service quality issues, even if false or unfounded, could tarnish our reputation and cause our customers to choose products offered by our competitors. in addition, the proliferation of new methods of mass communication facilitated by the internet makes it easier for false or unfounded allegations to adversely affect our brand image and reputation. if customers no longer maintain a preference for wd, hgst or sandisk brand products, our operating results may be adversely affected. a significant portion of our sales is made through retailers, and if our retailers are not successful in selling our products, not only would our revenue decrease, but we could also experience lower gross margin due to the return of unsold inventory or the protection we provide to retailers against price declines. sales in the distribution channel are important to our business, and if we fail to respond to demand changes in distribution markets or if distribution markets for our products weaken, our operating results could suffer. our distribution customers typically sell to small computer manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators and other resellers. we face significant competition in this channel as a result of limited product qualification programs and a significant focus on price and availability of product. in addition, the pc market is experiencing a shift to notebook and other mobile devices and, as a result, more computing devices are being delivered to the market as complete systems, which could weaken the distribution market. if we fail to respond to changes in demand in the distribution market, our operating results could suffer. additionally, if the distribution market weakens as a result of a slowing pc growth rate, technology transitions or a significant change in consumer buying preference, or if we experience significant price declines due to demand changes in the distribution channel, then our operating results would be adversely affected. negative changes in the credit-worthiness or the ability to access credit, or the bankruptcy or shutdown of any of our significant retail or distribution partners would harm our revenue and our ability to collect outstanding receivable balances. loss of market share with or by a key customer, or consolidation among our customer base, could harm our operating results. during 2017 , 36% of our revenue came from sales to our top 10 customers. these customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial demands on us, including demands on product pricing and on contractual terms, often resulting in the allocation of risk to us as the supplier. our ability to maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is essential to our future performance. if we lose a key customer, if any of our key customers reduce their orders of our products or require us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, if a customer is acquired by one of our competitors or if a key customer suffers financial hardship, our operating results and financial condition would likely be harmed. additionally, if there is consolidation among our customer base, our customers may be able to command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. in addition, if, as a result of increased leverage, customer pressures require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, it might not be feasible to sell our products to a particular customer, which could result in a decrease in our revenue. consolidation among our customer base may also lead to reduced demand for our products, replacement of our products by the combined entity with those of our competitors and cancellations of orders, each of which could harm our operating results. also, the storage ecosystem is constantly evolving, and our traditional customer base is changing. fewer companies now hold greater market share for certain applications and services, such as mobile, social media, shopping and streaming media. as a result, the competitive landscape is changing, giving these companies increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. in addition, the changes in our evolving customer base create new selling and distribution patterns to which we must adapt. to remain competitive, we must respond to these changes by ensuring we have proper scale in this evolving market, as well as offer products that meet the technological requirements of this customer base at competitive pricing points. to the extent we are not successful in adequately responding to these changes, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. 19 table of contents expansion into new markets may increase the complexity of our business and cause us to increase our r&amp;d expenses and investments in manufacturing capability, technology enhancements and go-to-market capability, and if we are unable to successfully adapt our business processes and product offerings as required by these new markets, our ability to grow will be adversely affected. to remain a significant supplier in the storage industry and to expand into new markets, we will need to offer a broader range of storage products to our customers. we currently offer a variety of 3.5-inch and 2.5-inch hdds, ssds and systems, flash storage solutions, and other products for the pc, mobile, enterprise, data center and other storage markets. as we expand our product lines to sell into new markets, such as our recent entry into active archive systems and new flash memory business through the merger, including the vertically integrated business model through flash ventures, the overall complexity of our business may increase at an accelerated rate and we may become subject to different market dynamics. these dynamics may include, among other things, different demand volume, cyclicality, seasonality, product requirements, sales channels, and warranty and return policies. in addition, expansion into other markets may result in increases in r&amp;d expenses and substantial investments in manufacturing capability, technology enhancements and go-to-market capability. flash ventures requires significant investments by both toshiba and us for technology transitions, including the transition to 3d nand, and capacity expansions. if we fail to successfully expand into new markets with products that we do not currently offer, we may lose business to our competitors or new entrants who offer these products. our vertical integration of some of our products makes us dependent on our ability to timely and cost-effectively develop products with leading technology and overall quality, increasing capital expenditure costs and asset utilization risks for our business. we develop nand-flash memory as well as other non-volatile memory technology through our partnership with toshiba; we are also vertically integrated in a substantial portion of the recording heads and magnetic media used in the hard drive products we produce. consequently, for some of our products, we are more dependent upon our own development and execution efforts and less able to take advantage of technologies developed by other manufacturers. since we may not have access to alternative technologies that we do not develop internally, we may have to pay royalties in order to access those technologies. in addition, we may be unsuccessful in timely and cost-effectively developing and manufacturing products using future technologies. we also may not effectively transition our design and technology to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields using the technologies necessary to satisfy our customers' product needs, or we may encounter quality problems with the products we manufacture. if we are unable to timely and cost-effectively develop products with leading technology and overall quality, continuing the cost reductions necessary to maintain adequate gross margin and our ability to sell our products may be significantly diminished, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. further, as a result of our vertical integration of some of our products, we make more capital investments and carry a higher percentage of fixed costs than we would if we were not vertically integrated. if our overall level of production decreases for any reason, and we are unable to reduce our fixed costs to match sales, some of our assets may face underutilization that may impact our operating results. we are therefore subject to additional risks related to overall asset utilization, including the need to operate at high levels of utilization to drive competitive costs and the need for assured supply of components that we do not manufacture ourselves. in addition, as a result of adverse labor rates or availability, we may be required to increase investments in automation, which may cause our capital expenditures to increase. if we do not adequately address these challenges, our ongoing operations could be disrupted, resulting in a decrease in our revenue or profit margins and negatively impacting our operating results. 20 table of contents we make significant investments in r&amp;d to improve our technology and develop new technologies, and unsuccessful investments or investments that are not cost effective could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. as a leading supplier of hard drives and flash storage solutions, we make significant investments to maintain our existing products and to lead innovation and development of new technologies. this strategy requires us to make significant investments in r&amp;d. in addition, we may increase our capital expenditures and expenses above our historical run-rate model in order to remain competitive or as a result of the merger with sandisk, which has historically maintained higher levels of investment in r&amp;d than our company. the current inherent physical limitations associated with storage technologies are resulting in more costly capital expenditures that reduce the cost benefits of technology transitions and could limit our ability to keep pace with reductions in asps. these investments may not result in viable technologies or products, and even if they do result in viable technologies or products, they may not be profitable or accepted by the market. significant investments in unsuccessful or cost-ineffective r&amp;d efforts could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, increased investments in technology could cause our cost structure to fall out of alignment with demand for our products, which would have a negative impact on our financial results. current or future competitors may gain a technology advantage or develop an advantageous cost structure that we cannot match. it may be possible for our current or future competitors to gain an advantage in product technology, manufacturing technology, or process technology, which may allow them to offer products or services that have a significant advantage over the products and services that we offer. advantages could be in price, capacity, performance, reliability, serviceability, industry standards or formats, brand and marketing, or other attributes. a competitive cost structure for our products, including critical components, labor and overhead, is also critical to the success of our business. we may be at a competitive disadvantage to any companies that are able to gain a technological or cost structure advantage. the chinese government and various agencies, state-owned or affiliated enterprises and investment funds are making significant investments to promote china's domestic semiconductor industry consistent with the government's stated national policy objectives. if we are unable to effectively compete with any manufacturers located in china or non-chinese competitors benefitting from alliances with chinese companies in the markets where we compete, our operating results and financial condition will suffer. consolidation within the data storage industry could provide competitive advantages to our competitors. the data storage industry as a whole has experienced consolidation over the past several years through acquisitions, mergers and decisions by industry players to exit the industry. further consolidation across the industry, including by our competitors who are vertically integrated with nand-flash memory, may enhance their capacity, abilities and resources and lower their cost structure, causing us to be at a competitive disadvantage. some of our competitors with diversified business units outside of storage products, may, over extended periods of time, sell storage products at prices that we cannot profitably match. some of our competitors earn a significant portion of their revenue from business units outside of storage products. because they do not depend solely on sales of storage products to achieve profitability, they may sell storage products at lower prices and operate their storage business unit at a loss over an extended period of time while still remaining profitable overall. in addition, if these competitors can increase sales of non-storage products to the same customers, they may benefit from selling their storage products at lower prices. our operating results may be adversely affected if we cannot successfully compete with the pricing by these companies. 21 table of contents if we fail to qualify our products and achieve design wins with our customers, it may have a significant adverse impact on our sales and margins. we regularly engage in new product qualification with our customers, and the product qualification process may be lengthy for some customers, including those in enterprise storage. once a product is accepted for qualification testing, failures or delays in the qualification process can result in delayed or reduced product sales, reduced product margins caused by having to continue to offer a more costly current generation product, or lost sales to that customer until the next generation of products is introduced. the effect of missing a product qualification opportunity is magnified by the limited number of high volume oems and hyperscale customers, which continue to consolidate their share of the storage markets. likewise, if product life cycles lengthen, we may have a significantly longer period to wait before we have an opportunity to qualify a new product with a customer, which could reduce our profits because we expect declining gross margins on our current generation products as a result of competitive pressures. even if our products meet customer specifications, our sales to these customers are dependent upon the customers choosing our products over those of our competitors and purchasing our products in sufficient volume, our ability to supply our products in sufficient quantity and in a timely manner and, with respect to oem partners, the oems' ability to create, market and successfully sell products containing our solutions. moreover, in transitioning to new technologies, such as 3d nand, and products, we may not achieve design wins, our customers may delay transition to these new technologies, our competitors may transition more quickly than we do, or we may experience product delays, cost overruns or performance issues that could harm our operating results and financial condition. we are subject to risks related to product defects or the unintended use or security breaches of our products, which could result in product recalls or epidemic failures and could subject us to warranty claims in excess of our warranty provisions or which are greater than anticipated, litigation or indemnification claims. we warrant the majority of our products for periods of one to five years. we test our products in our manufacturing facilities through a variety of means. however, our testing may fail to reveal defects in our products that may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market. in addition, our products may be used in a manner that is not intended or anticipated by us, resulting in potential liability. accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will occur, which could require a product recall. product recalls can be expensive to implement. as part of a product recall, we may be required or choose to replace the defective product. moreover, there is a risk that product defects may trigger an epidemic failure clause in a customer agreement. if an epidemic failure occurs, we may be required to replace or refund the value of the defective product and to cover certain other costs associated with the consequences of the epidemic failure. in addition, product defects, product recalls or epidemic failures may cause damage to our reputation or customer relationships, lost revenue, indemnification for a recall of our customers' products, warranty claims, litigation or loss of market share with our customers, including our oem and original design manufacturers ( odm ) customers. our business liability insurance may be inadequate or future coverage may be unavailable on acceptable terms, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. our standard warranties contain limits on damages and exclusions of liability for consequential damages and for misuse, improper installation, alteration, accident or mishandling while in the possession of someone other than us. we record an accrual for estimated warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. we may incur additional expenses if our warranty provision do not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues related to defects in our products, whether as a result of a product recall, epidemic failure or otherwise. if these additional expenses are significant, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. certain of our products contain encryption or security algorithms to protect third party content and user-generated data stored on our products. to the extent our products are hacked or the encryption schemes are compromised or breached, this could harm our business by hurting our reputation, requiring us to employ additional resources to fix the errors or defects and expose us to litigation and indemnification claims. in addition, third-party components or applications that we incorporate or use in our products may contain defects in design or manufacturing that could unexpectedly result in epidemic failures and subject us to liability. 22 table of contents our strategic relationships subject us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have entered into strategic relationships with various partners for future product development, sales growth and the supply of technologies, components, equipment and materials for use in our product design and manufacturing, including our relationships with toshiba for nand-flash memory supply. in addition, in the first quarter of 2017, our joint venture with unisplendour corporation limited ( unis ) to market and sell our current data center storage systems in china and to develop data storage systems for the chinese market in the future became operational; the joint venture is 49% owned by us and 51% owned by unis and its subsidiary, unissoft (wuxi) group co. ltd. please see the risk factor entitled because we are dependent on a limited number of qualified suppliers for components, sub-assemblies, testing, equipment, consumables, raw materials, and logistics, a supplier's inability, unwillingness, or failure to support us in a timely manner with goods or services at a quality level and cost acceptable to us can adversely affect our margins, revenues and operating results for a further description of the risks associated with our reliance on external suppliers. these strategic relationships are subject to various risks that could adversely affect the value of our investments and our results of operations and financial condition. these risks include, but are not limited to, the following: our interests could diverge from our partners' interests or we may not agree with co-venturers on ongoing activities, technology transitions or on the amount, timing or nature of further investments in the relationship; we may experience difficulties and delays in product and technology development at, ramping production at, and transferring technology to, our business ventures; our control over the operations of our business ventures is limited; due to financial constraints, our co-venturers may be unable to meet their commitments to us or may pose credit risks for our transactions with them; due to differing business models, financial constraints or long-term business goals, our partners may decide not to join us in funding capital investment by our business ventures, which may result in higher levels of cash expenditures by us or prevent us from proceeding in the investment; we may lose the rights to technology or products being developed by the strategic relationship, including if any of our co-venturers is acquired by another company or otherwise transfers its interest in the business venture, files for bankruptcy or experiences financial or other losses; a bankruptcy event involving a co-venturer could result in the early termination or adverse modification of the business venture or agreements governing the business venture; we may experience difficulties or delays in collecting amounts due to us from our co-venturers; the terms of our arrangements may turn out to be unfavorable; and changes in tax, legal or regulatory requirements may necessitate changes in the agreements with our co-venturers. if our strategic relationships are unsuccessful or there are unanticipated changes in, or termination of, our strategic relationships, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. 23 table of contents because we are dependent on a limited number of qualified suppliers for components, sub-assemblies, testing, equipment, consumables, raw materials, and logistics, a supplier's inability, unwillingness, or failure to support us in a timely manner with goods or services at a quality level and cost acceptable to us can adversely affect our margins, revenues and operating results . we depend on an external supply base for technologies, software (including firmware), preamps, controller, components, equipment and materials for use in our product design and manufacturing. we also depend on suppliers for a portion of our wafer testing, chip assembly, product assembly and product testing, and on service suppliers for providing technical support for our products. in addition, we use logistics partners to manage our just-in-time hubs, distribution centers and freight from suppliers to our factories and from our factories to our customers throughout the world. many of the components and much of the equipment we acquire must be specifically designed to be compatible for use in our products or for developing and manufacturing our future products, and are only available from a limited number of suppliers, some of whom are our sole-source suppliers. we are therefore dependent on these suppliers to be able and willing to dedicate adequate engineering resources to develop components that can be successfully integrated into our products, technology and equipment that can be used to develop and manufacture our next-generation products efficiently. our supply base has experienced industry consolidation. where we rely on a limited number of suppliers or a single supplier, the risk of supplier loss due to industry consolidation is enhanced. some of our suppliers may be competitors in other areas of our business, which could lead to difficulties in price negotiations or meeting our supply requirements. any disruption in our supply chain could reduce our revenue and adversely impact our financial results. from time to time, our suppliers have experienced difficulty meeting our requirements. if we are unable to purchase sufficient quantities from our current suppliers or qualify and engage additional suppliers, we may not be able to meet demand for our products. we do not have long-term contracts with some of our existing suppliers, nor do we always have guaranteed manufacturing capacity with our suppliers and, therefore, we cannot guarantee that they will devote sufficient resources or capacity to manufacturing our products. we are not able to directly control product delivery schedules or quality assurance. furthermore, we manufacture on a turnkey basis with some of our suppliers. in these arrangements, we do not have visibility and control of our suppliers' inventories of purchased parts necessary to build our products or of the progress of our products through their assembly line. any significant problems that occur at our suppliers, or their failure to perform at the level we expect, could lead to product shortages or quality assurance problems, either of which would harm our operating results and financial condition. in addition, if we are unable to purchase sufficient quantities from our current suppliers, we may not be able to engage alternative suppliers who are able or willing to provide goods or services in sufficient quantities or at a cost acceptable to us. our products require preamps, controllers and firmware. we rely on a limited number of third-party vendors to develop or supply controllers for many of our high-value solutions. any delays or cost increases in developing or sourcing controllers or firmware, or incompatibility or quality issues relating to the controllers or firmware in our products, could harm our financial results as well as business relationships with our customers. a majority of our flash memory is currently supplied by flash ventures and, to a much lesser extent, by third-party silicon suppliers. any disruption or shortage in supply of flash memory from our captive or non-captive sources would harm our operating results and financial condition. many of the risks that affect us also affect our supply base and flash ventures, including, but not limited to, having single site manufacturing locations and other facilities based in high risk regions of the world (for example, flash ventures is located in yokkaichi, japan), natural disasters, power shortages, macro and local economic conditions, shortages of commodity materials, proper management of technology transitions, geo-political risks, employee strikes and other labor actions, compliance with legal requirements, financial instability and exposure to ip and other litigation, including an injunction or other action that could delay shipping. if any of these risks were to affect our suppliers or flash ventures, we could also be adversely affected, especially in the case of products, components or services that are single-sourced. for example, if suppliers are facing increased costs due to the above risks, they may require us to enter into long-term volume agreements to shift the burden of fixed costs to us. further, we work closely with many of our suppliers and strategic partners to develop new technologies and, as a result, we may become subject to litigation from our suppliers, strategic partners or third parties. 24 table of contents without a capable and financially stable supply base that has established appropriate relationships within the supply chain and has implemented business processes, strategies and risk management safeguards, we would be unable to develop our products, manufacture them in high volumes, and distribute them to our customers to execute our business plans effectively. some of our suppliers have also experienced a decline in financial performance. our suppliers may be acquired by our competitors, consolidate, or decide to exit the industry, redirect their investments and increase costs to us, each of which may have an adverse effect on our business and operations. in addition, moving to new technologies may require us to align to, and build, a new supply base. our success in new product areas may be dependent on our ability to develop close relationships with new suppliers, with preferential agreements. where this cannot be done, our business and operations may be adversely affected. in addition to an external supply base, we also rely on an internal supply chain of heads, media and media substrate, and we rely on our business ventures with toshiba for the supply of nand-flash memory. please see the risk factors entitled, the substitution or replacement of our technologies and products by new technologies could make our products obsolete and harm our operating results , if we do not properly manage technology transitions, our competitiveness and operating results may be negatively affected , and we rely substantially on our business ventures with toshiba for the supply of nand-flash memory, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results for a review of some of the risks related to these supplies. price volatility, shortages of critical materials or components, or use by other industries of materials and components used in the storage industry, may negatively impact our operating results. increases in the cost for certain critical materials and components and oil may increase our costs of manufacturing and transporting our products and key components and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to pass these increased costs on to our customers. shortages of critical components such as dram and nand-flash memory, or materials such as glass substrates, stainless steel, aluminum, nickel, neodymium, ruthenium, platinum or cerium, may increase our costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to find ways to mitigate these increased costs. we or our suppliers acquire certain precious metals and rare earth metals like ruthenium, platinum, neodymium and cerium, which are critical to the manufacture of components in our products from a number of countries, including the people's republic of china. the government of china or any other nation may impose regulations, quotas or embargoes upon these metals that would restrict the worldwide supply of such metals or increase their cost, both of which could negatively impact our operating results until alternative suppliers are sourced. furthermore, if other high volume industries increase their demand for materials or components used in our products, our costs may further increase, which could have an adverse effect on our operating margins. in addition, shortages in other components and materials used in our customers' products could result in a decrease in demand for our products, which would negatively impact our operating results. contractual commitments with component suppliers may result in us paying increased charges and cash advances for such components or may cause us to have inadequate or excess component inventory. to reduce the risk of component shortages, we attempt to provide significant lead times when buying components, which may subject us to cancellation charges if we cancel orders as a result of technology transitions or changes in our component needs. in addition, we may from time to time enter into contractual commitments with component suppliers in an effort to increase and stabilize the supply of those components and enable us to purchase such components at favorable prices. some of these commitments may require us to buy a substantial number of components from the supplier or make significant cash advances to the supplier; however, these commitments may not result in a satisfactory increase or stabilization of the supply of such components. furthermore, as a result of uncertain global economic conditions, our ability to forecast our requirements for these components has become increasingly difficult, therefore increasing the risk that our contractual commitments may not meet our actual supply requirements, which could cause us to have inadequate or excess component inventory and adversely affect our operating results and increase our operating costs. 25 table of contents if we do not properly manage technology transitions, our competitiveness and operating results may be negatively affected . the storage markets in which we offer our products continuously undergo technology transitions that we must anticipate and adapt our products to address in a timely manner. if we fail to implement new technologies successfully, or if we are slower than our competitors at implementing new technologies, we may not be able to competitively offer products that our customers desire or keep pace with asp reduction, which could harm our operating results. for example, in transitioning our 2d nand manufacturing capacity to 3d nand technology, we could experience delays or other challenges in the production ramp, qualification of wafers, shipment of samples to customers or customer approval process. 3d nand and any new manufacturing node may be more susceptible to manufacturing yield issues. manufacturing yield issues may not be identified during the development or production process or solved until an actual product is manufactured and tested, further increasing our costs. if our technology transitions, including the production ramp of 3d nand technology, take longer, are more costly to complete than anticipated, or do not improve manufacturing yield or other manufacturing efficiencies, our flash memory costs may not remain competitive with other nand-flash memory producers or may not fall commensurate with declines in the price of nand-flash memory, which would harm revenues, our gross margin and operating results. many companies, including some of our competitors, have developed or are attempting to develop alternative non-volatile technologies. successful broad-based commercialization of one or more competing technologies, as well as differing strategies and timing with respect to the transition from 2d nand to 3d nand, could reduce the competitiveness and future revenue and profitability of our 2d nand and 3d nand-flash technologies. for additional technology transition risks related to 3d nand, see we rely substantially on our business ventures with toshiba for the supply of nand-flash memory, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results . in addition, if our customers choose to delay transition to new technologies, if demand for the products that we develop is lower than expected or if the supporting technologies to implement these new technologies are not available, we may be unable to achieve the cost structure required to support our profit objectives or may be unable to grow or maintain our market position. changes in product life cycles could adversely affect our financial results. if product life cycles lengthen, we may need to develop new technologies or programs to reduce our costs on any particular product to maintain competitive pricing for that product. longer product life cycles could also restrict our ability to transition customers to our newer products in a timely manner, or at all, negatively impacting our ability to recoup our significant r&amp;d investments to improve our existing technology and develop new technologies. if product life cycles shorten, it may result in an increase in our overall expenses and a decrease in our gross margins, both of which could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, shortening of product life cycles also makes it more difficult to recover the cost of product development before the product becomes obsolete. our failure to recover the cost of product development in the future could adversely affect our operating results. 26 table of contents the substitution or replacement of our technologies and products by new technologies could make our products obsolete and harm our operating results . given the pace of technological development, there is a possibility that new technologies could substitute for or replace our current technologies and products and make them obsolete. historically, when the industry experiences a fundamental change in storage technologies or standards, any manufacturer that fails to successfully and timely adjust its designs and processes to accommodate or manufacture the new technology or standard fails to remain competitive. there are some revolutionary technologies, such as current-perpendicular-to-plane giant magnetoresistance, shingle magnetic recording, heat-assisted magnetic recording, patterned magnetic media and advanced signal processing that, if implemented by a competitor on a commercially viable basis ahead of the industry, could put us at a competitive disadvantage. in addition, many companies, including some of our competitors, have developed or are attempting to develop alternative non-volatile technologies, including non-nand technologies such as magnetoresistive random-access memory ( ram ), resistive random-access memory ( reram ) and phase change, as well as nand based vertical or stacked 3d memories based on charge trap, floating gate and other cell architecture. in embedded solutions, certain competitors have recently introduced a mobile storage standard referred to as universal flash storage ( ufs ). in the data center market, certain competitors have recently introduced a non-volatile memory express ( nvme ) product that can be used as a substitute for our peripheral component interconnect express ( pcie ) solutions. in addition, a provider of processors and non-volatile memory solutions may be developing a new standard to attach ultra-low latency non-volatile memory to its processor memory bus, which it may choose not to license to its competitors, resulting in it being a single source provider of such non-volatile memory solutions. as a result of these shifts in technology and standards, we could incur substantial costs in developing new technologies, such as recording heads, magnetic media and tools, in adopting new standards or in investing in different capital equipment or manufacturing processes to remain competitive. if we fail to successfully implement these new technologies or standards, or if we are significantly slower than our competitors at implementing new technologies or standards, we may not be able to offer products with capacities and capabilities that our customers desire, which could harm our operating results. the difficulty of introducing hard drives with higher levels of areal density and the challenges of reducing other costs may impact our ability to achieve historical levels of cost reduction. storage capacity of the hard drive, as manufactured by us, is determined by the number of disks and each disk's areal density. areal density is a measure of the amount of magnetic bits that can be stored on the recording surface of the disk. generally, the higher the areal density, the more information can be stored on a single platter. higher areal densities require existing recording head and magnetic media technology to be improved or new technologies developed to accommodate more data on a single disk. historically, we have been able to achieve a large percentage of cost reduction through increases in areal density. increases in areal density mean that the average drive we sell has fewer heads and disks for the same capacity and, therefore, may result in a lower component cost. however, increasing areal density has become more difficult in the storage industry. if we are not able to increase areal density at the same rate as our competitors or at a rate that is expected by our customers, we may be required to include more components in our drives to meet demand without corresponding incremental revenue, which could negatively impact our operating margins and make achieving historical levels of cost reduction difficult or unlikely. additionally, increases in areal density may require us to make further capital expenditures on items such as new test equipment needed as a result of an increased number of gigabytes per platter. our inability to achieve cost reductions could adversely affect our operating results. 27 table of contents our license and royalty revenue may fluctuate or decline significantly in the future due to license agreement expirations or renewals, declines in sales of the products or use of technology underlying the license and royalty revenue by our licensees, or if licensees fail to perform on a portion or all of their contractual obligations. if our existing licensees do not renew their licenses upon expiration, renew or sign new agreements on less favorable terms, exercise their option to terminate the license or fail to exercise their option to extend the licenses, or we are not successful in signing new licensees in the future, our license revenue, profitability and cash provided by operating activities would be harmed and we may incur significant patent litigation costs to enforce our patents against these licensees. as our older patents expire, and the coverage of our newer patents may be different, it may be more difficult to negotiate or renew favorable license agreement terms or a license agreement at all. our agreements may require us in certain instances to recognize license revenue related to a particular licensee all in one period instead of over time, which could create additional volatility in our licensing revenue. a portion of our license and royalty revenue is based on sales of product categories as well as the underlying technology, and fluctuations in the sales of those products or technology adoption rates would also result in fluctuations in the license and royalty revenue due to us under our agreements. if our licensees or we fail to perform on contractual obligations, we may incur costs to enforce or defend the terms of our licenses and there can be no assurance that our enforcement, defense or collection efforts will be effective. if we license new ip from third parties or existing licensees, we may be required to pay license fees, royalty payments or offset existing license revenue. we may enter into agreements with customers, suppliers or partners that could limit our ability to monetize our ip or could result in us being required to provide ip indemnification to our customers, suppliers or partners. in addition, we may be subject to disputes, claims or other disagreements on the timing, amount or collection of royalties or license payments under our license agreements. if we do not properly manage new product development, our competitiveness and operating results may be negatively affected. our success depends in part on our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner in order to keep pace with technology advancements. advances in semiconductor technology have resulted in other emerging technologies that can be competitive with traditional storage technologies. we may be unsuccessful in anticipating and developing new and improved products for the client, enterprise and other storage markets in response to competing technologies. if our hard drive, solid-state products and our storage solutions products fail to offer a superior value proposition to alternative storage products, we will be at a competitive disadvantage and our business will suffer. in some cases, our customers' demand for a more diversified portfolio results in investments in new products for a particular market that do not necessarily expand overall market opportunity, which may negatively affect our operating results. as we introduce new products, standards or technologies, it can take time for these new standards or technologies to be adopted, for consumers to accept and transition to these new standards or technologies and for significant sales to be generated, if at all. failure of consumers or enterprises to adopt our new products, standards or technologies could harm our results of operations as we fail to reap the benefits of our investments. in addition, the success of our new product introductions depends on a number of other factors, including: difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp; implementing at an acceptable cost product features expected by our customers; market acceptance/qualification; effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand; quality problems or other defects in the early stages of new product introduction and problems with compatibility between our products and those of our customers that were not anticipated in the design of those products; our ability to increase our software development capability; and the effectiveness of our go-to-market capability in selling these new products. in particular, as part of our growth strategy, we have made significant investments in active archive systems, which are designed to enable organizations to rapidly access massive long-term data stores. for example, our acquisition of amplidata nv in march 2015 was partially driven by our strategy to expand in this area. we expect to continue to make significant investments in active archive systems. our active archive systems may fail to gain market acceptance, or the market for active archive systems may not grow as we anticipate. 28 table of contents we have also seen, and anticipate continuing to see, an increase in customers requesting that we develop products, including software associated with our products, that incorporate open source software elements and operate in an open source environment. adapting to this demand may cause product delays, placing us at a competitive disadvantage. open source products could also reduce our capability for product differentiation or innovation and our affected products could be diminished to commodity status, which we expect would place increased downward pressure on our margins. if we fail to successfully anticipate and manage issues associated with our product development generally, our business may suffer. our operations, and those of certain of our suppliers and customers, are concentrated in large, purpose-built facilities, subjecting us to substantial risk of damage or loss if operations at any of these facilities are disrupted. as a result of our cost structure and strategy of vertical integration, we conduct our operations at large, high volume, purpose-built facilities in california and throughout asia. the concentration of flash ventures in yokkaichi, japan, magnifies the risks of supply disruption. the facilities of many of our customers, our suppliers and our customers' suppliers are also concentrated in certain geographic locations throughout asia and elsewhere. a localized health risk affecting our employees at these facilities or the staff of our or our customers' other suppliers, such as the spread of a pandemic influenza, could impair the total volume of our products that we are able to manufacture or sell, which would result in substantial harm to our operating results. similarly, a fire, flood, earthquake, tsunami or other natural disaster, condition or event such as political instability, civil unrest or a power outage that adversely affects any of these facilities, including access to or from these facilities by employees or logistics operators, would significantly affect our ability to manufacture or sell our products, which would result in a substantial loss of sales and revenue and a substantial harm to our operating results. for example, prior to the 2011 flooding in thailand, all of our internal slider capacity and 60% of our hard drive manufacturing capacity was in thailand. as a result of the flooding in thailand, our facilities were inundated and temporarily shut down. during that period, our ability to manufacture hard drives was significantly constrained, adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the concentration of our manufacturing sites could exacerbate the negative impacts resulting from localized labor unrest or other employment issues. a significant event that impacts any of our manufacturing sites, or the sites of our customers or suppliers, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture or sell our products, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. we may incur losses beyond the limits of, or outside the scope of, the coverage of our insurance policies. there can be no assurance that in the future we will be able to maintain existing insurance coverage or that premiums will not increase substantially. due to market availability, pricing or other reasons, we may elect not to purchase insurance coverage or to purchase only limited coverage. we maintain limited insurance coverage and, in some cases, no coverage at all, for natural disasters and environmental damages, as these types of insurance are sometimes not available or available only at a prohibitive cost. we depend upon toshiba to obtain and maintain sufficient property, business interruption and other insurance for flash ventures. if toshiba fails to do so, we could suffer significant unreimbursable losses, and such failure could also cause flash ventures to breach various financing covenants. if our technology infrastructure, systems or products are compromised, damaged or interrupted by cyber attacks, data security breaches, other security problems, security vulnerabilities or design defects, or sustain system failures, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. we experience cyber attacks of varying degrees on our technology infrastructure and systems and, as a result, unauthorized parties have obtained in the past, and may in the future obtain, access to our computer systems and networks. the technology infrastructure and systems of our suppliers, vendors and partners may also experience such attacks. cyber attacks can include computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, worms, and other malicious software programs or other attacks, covert introduction of malware to computers and networks, impersonation of authorized users, and efforts to discover and exploit any security vulnerabilities or security weaknesses, as well as intentional or unintentional acts by employees or other insiders with access privileges, intentional acts of vandalism by third parties and sabotage. we believe cyber attack attempts are increasing in number and that cyber attackers are developing increasingly sophisticated systems and means to not only attack systems, but also to evade detection or to obscure their activities. our products are also targets for cyber attacks. while some of our products contain encryption or security algorithms to protect third-party content or user-generated data stored on our products, these products could still be hacked or the encryption schemes could be compromised, breached, or circumvented by motivated and sophisticated attackers. we have agreed with certain customers and strategic partners, including toshiba, to undertake certain commitments to promote information security, and we may be liable to toshiba or such other parties if we fail to meet our cyber security commitments. 29 table of contents in addition, our technology infrastructure and systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss and telecommunications failures. further, our products contain sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that may contain security problems, security vulnerabilities, or defects in design or manufacture, including bugs and other problems that could interfere with the intended operation of our products. if efforts to breach our infrastructure, systems or products are successful or we are unable to protect against these risks, we could suffer interruptions, delays, or cessation of operations of our systems, and loss or misuse of proprietary or confidential information, ip, or sensitive or personal information. breaches of our infrastructure, systems or products could also cause our customers and other affected third parties to suffer loss or misuse of proprietary or confidential information, ip, or sensitive or personal information, and could harm our relationships with customers and other third parties. as a result, we could experience additional costs, indemnification claims, litigation, and damage to our brand and reputation. all of these consequences could harm our reputation and our business and materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. manufacturing, marketing and selling our products globally subjects us to numerous risks. currently, a large portion of our revenue is derived from our international operations, and many of our products and components are produced overseas. our revenue and future growth is significantly dependent on the growth of international markets, and we may face difficulties in entering or maintaining international sales markets. we are subject to risks associated with our global manufacturing operations and global marketing and sales efforts, as well as risks associated with our utilization of and reliance on contract manufacturers, including: obtaining requisite governmental permits and approvals, compliance with foreign laws and regulations, changes in foreign laws and regulations; the need to comply with regulations on international business, including the foreign corrupt practices act, the united kingdom bribery act 2010, the anti-bribery laws of other countries and rules regarding conflict minerals; currency exchange rate fluctuations or restrictions; political and economic instability, civil unrest and natural disasters; limited transportation availability, delays, and extended time required for shipping, which risks may be compounded in periods of price declines; higher freight rates; labor challenges, including difficulties finding and retaining talent or responding to labor disputes or disruptions; trade restrictions or higher tariffs and fees; import and export restrictions and license and certification requirements, including on encryption technology, and complex customs regulations; copyright levies or similar fees or taxes imposed in european and other countries; exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations; increasing labor and overhead costs; weaker protection of ip rights; difficulties in managing international operations, including appropriate internal controls; and loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities. as a result of these risks, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. some of these risks, such as trade restrictions, higher tariffs and fees, import and export restrictions or loss of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities, could increase as a result of changes to policies, rules and regulations which may be proposed or implemented by the u.s. president and his administration. 30 table of contents terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business and operating results. recent terrorist incidents around the world and the continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility have created uncertainty in the financial and insurance markets and have significantly increased the political, economic and social instability in some of the geographic areas in which we, our suppliers or our customers operate. additionally, it is uncertain what impact the reactions to such acts by various governmental agencies and security regulators worldwide will have on shipping costs. acts of terrorism, either domestically or abroad, could create further uncertainties and instability. to the extent this results in disruption or delays of our manufacturing capabilities, r&amp;d activities (including our operations in israel) or shipments of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. any of these events could also increase volatility in the u.s. and world financial markets, which could have a negative effect on our stock price and may limit the capital resources available to us and our customers or suppliers, or adversely affect consumer confidence. sudden disruptions to the availability of air transportation, or ocean or land freight lanes, could have an impact on our operations. we generally ship our products to our customers, and receive shipments from our suppliers, via air, ocean or land freight. the sudden unavailability or disruption of air transportation, cargo operations or ocean, rail or truck freight lanes caused by, among other things, labor difficulties or disputes, severe weather patterns or other natural disasters, or political instability or civil unrest, could impact our operating results by impairing our ability to timely and efficiently receive shipments from our suppliers or deliver our products. if we fail to identify, manage, complete and integrate acquisitions, investment opportunities or other significant transactions, which are a key part of our growth strategy, it may adversely affect our future results. we seek to be an industry-leading developer, manufacturer and provider of innovative storage solutions, balancing our core hard drive and flash memory business with growing investments in newer areas that we believe will provide us with higher growth opportunities. acquisitions of, investment opportunities in, or other significant transactions with companies that are complementary to our business are a key part of our overall business strategy. in order to pursue this part of our growth strategy successfully, we must continue to identify attractive acquisition or investment opportunities, successfully complete the transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as integration of the acquired company or employees. we may not be able to continue to identify or complete appealing acquisition or investment opportunities given the intense competition for these transactions. we are also subject to certain covenants in our debt agreements which place limits on our ability to complete acquisitions and investments. even if we identify and complete suitable corporate transactions, we may not be able to successfully address any integration challenges in a timely manner, or at all. failing to successfully integrate or realign our business to take advantage of efficiencies or reduce redundancies of an acquisition may result in not realizing all or any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. in addition, failing to achieve the financial model projections for an acquisition may result in the incurrence of impairment charges and other expenses, both of which could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. acquisitions and investments may also result in the issuance of equity securities that may be dilutive to our shareholders and the issuance of additional indebtedness which would put additional pressure on liquidity. furthermore, we may agree to provide continuing service obligations or enter into other agreements in order to obtain certain regulatory approvals of our corporate transactions, and failure to satisfy these additional obligations could result in our failing to obtain regulatory approvals or the imposition of additional obligations on us, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we are unable to successfully integrate the business and operations of hgst, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. in connection with obtaining the regulatory approvals required to complete the acquisition of hgst, we agreed to certain conditions required by the ministry of commerce of the people's republic of china ( mofcom ), including adopting measures to keep hgst as an independent competitor until mofcom agreed otherwise. on october 19, 2015, mofcom announced that it had made a decision allowing us to integrate substantial portions of our hgst and wd subsidiaries, provided that we continue to offer both hgst and wd product brands and maintain separate sales teams that will separately offer products under the wd and hgst brands for two years from the date of the decision. 31 table of contents as a result of mofcom's decision, we immediately began planning for the integration of the substantial portions of our hgst and wd subsidiaries that we are now allowed to integrate (including corporate functions, r&amp;d, recording heads and magnetic media operations, engineering and manufacturing). we expect this integration to continue through the end of calendar year 2017. our integration efforts during this time may involve significant management time and create uncertainty for employees and customers. any delays in the integration process could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. it is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the loss of customers, the disruption of our company's ongoing business or in unexpected integration issues, higher than expected integration costs and an overall integration process that takes longer than originally anticipated. additionally, the integration of the operations of our hgst and western digital technologies, inc. ( wdt ) subsidiaries may also increase the risk that our internal controls are found to be ineffective. further, until we are able to begin combining our hgst and wd product brands and sales teams following the expiration of the mofcom restrictions on october 19, 2017, we will continue to incur additional costs to maintain separate brands and sales teams. these additional costs, along with any delay in the integration process or higher than expected integration costs or other integration issues, could adversely affect our ability to achieve the full operating expense synergies we expect from integration of the businesses of our hgst and wdt subsidiaries. any failure to achieve the full operating expense synergies that we expect from this integration could harm our business and financial condition. achieving these synergies is also subject to significant business, operational, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, and we cannot assure you that any or all of these synergies will be achieved in the anticipated amounts or within the anticipated time frames or cost expectations or at all. the loss of our key executive management, staff and skilled employees, the inability to hire and integrate new employees or decisions to realign our business could negatively impact our business prospects. our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key management, staff and skilled employees, many of whom would be extremely difficult to replace. global competition for skilled employees in the data storage industry is intense and, as we attempt to move to a position of technology leadership in the storage industry, our business success becomes increasingly dependent on our ability to retain our key staff and skilled employees, to attract, integrate and retain new skilled employees, including employees from acquisitions, and to make decisions to realign our business to take advantage of efficiencies or reduce redundancies. volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price and the overall markets may adversely affect our ability to retain key staff or skilled employees who have received equity compensation. additionally, because a substantial portion of our key employees' compensation is placed at risk and linked to the performance of our business, when our operating results are negatively impacted, we are at a competitive disadvantage for retaining and hiring key management, staff and skilled employees versus other companies that pay a relatively higher fixed salary. if we lose our existing key management, staff or skilled employees, or are unable to hire and integrate new key management, staff or skilled employees, or if we fail to implement succession plans for our key management or staff, our operating results would likely be harmed. furthermore, if we do not realize the anticipated benefits of our intended realignment after we make decisions regarding our personnel and implement our realignment plans, our operating results could be adversely affected. we and certain of our officers are at times involved in litigation, investigations and governmental proceedings, which may be costly, may divert the efforts of our key personnel and could result in adverse court rulings, fines or penalties, which could materially harm our business. we are involved in litigation, including cases involving our ip rights and those of others, antitrust and commercial matters, putative securities class action suits and other actions. we are the plaintiff in some of these actions and the defendant in others. some of the actions seek injunctive relief, including injunctions against the sale of our products, and substantial monetary damages, which if granted or awarded, could materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results. from time to time, we may also be the subject of inquiries, requests for information, investigations and actions by government and regulatory agencies regarding our businesses. any such matters could result in material adverse consequences to our results of operations, financial condition or ability to conduct our business, including fines, penalties or restrictions on our business activities. litigation is subject to inherent risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. in the event of an adverse outcome in any litigation, investigation or governmental proceeding, we could be required to pay substantial damages, fines or penalties and cease certain practices or activities, including the manufacture, use and sale of products. with or without merit, such matters can be complex, can extend for a protracted period of time, can be very expensive and the expense can be unpredictable. litigation initiated by us could also result in counter-claims against us, which could increase the costs associated with the litigation and result in our payment of damages or other judgments against us. in addition, litigation, investigations or governmental proceedings and any related publicity, may divert the efforts and attention of some of our key personnel and may also harm the market prices of our securities. 32 table of contents we may be obligated to indemnify our current or former directors or employees, or former directors or employees of companies that we have acquired, in connection with litigation, investigations or governmental proceedings. these liabilities could be substantial and may include, among other things: the costs of defending lawsuits against these individuals; the cost of defending shareholder derivative suits; the cost of governmental, law enforcement or regulatory investigations or proceedings; civil or criminal fines and penalties; legal and other expenses; and expenses associated with the remedial measures, if any, which may be imposed. we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the u.s. and other countries relating to the collection, use, sharing, and security of third-party data including personal data, and our failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could subject us to proceedings by governmental entities or others and cause us to incur penalties, significant legal liability, or loss of customers, loss of revenue, and reputational harm . we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the u.s. and other countries relating to the collection, use, and security of third-party data including data that relates to or identifies an individual person. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, and among us, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations. our possession and use of third-party data, including personal data and employee data in conducting our business subjects us to legal and regulatory burdens that may require us to notify vendors, customers or employees or other parties with which we have commercial relations of a data security breach and to respond to regulatory inquiries and to enforcement proceedings. global privacy and data protection legislation, enforcement, and policy activity in this area are rapidly expanding and evolving, and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. compliance requirements and even our inadvertent failure to comply with applicable laws may cause us to incur substantial costs, subject us to proceedings by governmental entities or others, and cause us to incur penalties or other significant legal liability, or lead us to change our business practices. the nature of our industry and its reliance on ip and other proprietary information subjects us and our suppliers, customers and partners to the risk of significant litigation. the data storage industry has been characterized by significant litigation. this includes litigation relating to patent and other ip rights, product liability claims and other types of litigation. we have historically been involved in frequent disputes regarding patent and other ip rights, and we have in the past received, and we may in the future receive, communications from third parties asserting that certain of our products, processes or technologies infringe upon their patent rights, copyrights, trademark rights or other ip rights. we may also receive claims of potential infringement if we attempt to license ip to others. ip risks increase when we enter into new markets where we have little or no ip protection as a defense against litigation. the complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of ip litigation increase the ip risks we face. litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. moreover, the results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may result in adverse rulings or decisions. we may be subject to injunctions, enter into settlements or be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. if we incorporate third-party technology into our products or if claims or actions are asserted against us for alleged infringement of the ip of others, we may be required to obtain a license or cross-license, modify our existing technology or design a new non-infringing technology. such licenses or design modifications can be extremely costly. we evaluate notices of alleged patent infringement and notices of patents from patent holders that we receive from time to time. we may decide to settle a claim or action against us, which settlement could be costly. we may also be liable for any past infringement. if there is an adverse ruling against us in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued barring production or sale of any infringing product. it could also result in a damage award equal to a reasonable royalty or lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement, treble damages. any of these results would increase our costs and harm our operating results. in addition, our suppliers, customers and partners are subject to similar risks of litigation, and a material, adverse ruling against a supplier, customer or partner could negatively impact our business. moreover, from time to time, we agree to indemnify certain of our suppliers and customers for alleged ip infringement. the scope of such indemnity varies but may include indemnification for direct and consequential damages and expenses, including attorneys' fees. we may be engaged in litigation as a result of these indemnification obligations. third party claims for patent infringement are excluded from coverage under our insurance policies. a future obligation to indemnify our customers or suppliers may harm our business, financial condition and operating results. 33 table of contents our reliance on ip and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients of our business could be copied by competitors. our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary nature of our technology, including non-patentable ip such as our process technology. we primarily rely on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. there can be no assurance that our existing patents will continue to be held valid, if challenged, or that they will have sufficient scope or strength to protect us. it is also possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose, illegally or otherwise, our proprietary technologies and processes, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. if a competitor is able to reproduce or otherwise capitalize on our technology despite the safeguards we have in place, it may be difficult, expensive or impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. there are entities whom we believe may infringe our ip. enforcement of our rights often requires litigation. if we bring a patent infringement action and are not successful, our competitors would be able to use similar technology to compete with us. moreover, the defendant in such an action may successfully countersue us for infringement of their patents or assert a counterclaim that our patents are invalid or unenforceable. also, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our ip to the same extent as do u.s. laws. in addition to patent protection of ip rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. we rely upon employee, consultant and vendor non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. however, any of our registered or unregistered ip rights may be challenged or exploited by others in the industry, which could harm our operating results. the success of our branded products depends in part on the positive image that consumers have of our brands. we believe the popularity of our brands makes them a target of counterfeiting or imitation, with third parties attempting to pass off counterfeit products as our products. any occurrence of counterfeiting, imitation or confusion with our brands could adversely affect our reputation and impair the value of our brands, which in turn could negatively impact sales of our branded products, our share and our gross margin, as well as increase our administrative costs related to brand protection and counterfeit detection and prosecution. the costs of compliance with state, federal and international legal and regulatory requirements, such as environmental, labor, trade, health, safety, anti-corruption and tax regulations, customers' standards of corporate citizenship, and industry and coalition standards, such as those established by the electronics industry citizenship coalition ( eicc ), could cause an increase in our operating costs. we are subject to, and may become subject to additional, state, federal and international laws and regulations governing our environmental, labor, trade, health, safety, anti-corruption and tax practices. these laws and regulations, particularly those applicable to our international operations, are or may be complex, extensive and subject to change. we will need to ensure that we and our suppliers and partners timely comply with such laws and regulations, which may result in an increase in our operating costs. legislation has been, and may in the future be, enacted in locations where we manufacture or sell our products. in addition, climate change and financial reform legislation is a significant topic of discussion and has generated and may continue to generate federal, international or other regulatory responses in the near future. if we or our suppliers or partners fail to timely comply with applicable legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our products or we may face increased operating costs as a result of taxes, fines or penalties, or legal liability and reputational damage, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. in connection with our compliance with environmental laws and regulations, as well as our compliance with industry and coalition environmental initiatives, such as those established by the eicc, the standards of business conduct required by some of our customers, and our commitment to sound corporate citizenship in all aspects of our business, we could incur substantial compliance and operating costs and be subject to disruptions to our operations and logistics. in addition, if we were found to be in violation of these laws or noncompliant with these initiatives or standards of conduct, we could be subject to governmental fines, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation and corporate brand which could cause our financial condition and operating results to suffer. 34 table of contents conflict minerals regulations may cause us to incur additional expenses and could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain components and metals contained in our products. we are subject to the sec's diligence and disclosure requirements regarding the use and source of gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten, commonly referred to as 3tg or conflict minerals, which are necessary to the functionality or production of products manufactured or contracted to be manufactured by public companies. as a result of these rules, we report annually regarding whether such 3tg originated from the democratic republic of the congo or an adjoining country. these rules could affect our ability to source components that contain 3tg, or 3tg generally, at acceptable prices and could impact the availability of such components or 3tg, since there may be only a limited number of suppliers of conflict free 3tg. our customers, including our oem customers, may require, and some of our customers have notified us that they require, that our products contain only conflict free 3tg, and our revenues and margins may be harmed if we are unable to meet this requirement at a reasonable price, or at all, or are unable to pass through any increased costs associated with meeting this requirement. additionally, we may suffer reputational harm with our customers and other stakeholders and challenges from government regulators if our products are not conflict free or if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of the 3tg contained in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. we could incur significant costs to the extent that we are required to make changes to products, processes, or sources of supply due to the foregoing requirements or pressures. conflict minerals legislation in europe, canada or any other jurisdiction, could increase these risks. violation of applicable laws, including labor or environmental laws, and certain other practices by our suppliers, customers or partners could harm our business. we expect our suppliers, customers and partners to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including labor and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required standards of conduct. while our internal operating guidelines promote ethical business practices, we do not control our suppliers, customers, partners or their labor or environmental practices. the violation of labor, environmental or other laws by any of them, or divergence of their business practices from those generally accepted as ethical, could harm our business by: interrupting or otherwise disrupting the shipment of our product components; damaging our reputation; forcing us to find alternate component sources; reducing demand for our products (for example, through a consumer boycott); or exposing us to potential liability for our suppliers', customers' or partners' wrongdoings. flash ventures' equipment lease agreements contain covenants and other cancellation events, and cancellation of the leases would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. flash ventures sells and leases back from a consortium of financial institutions ( lessors ) a portion of its equipment and flash ventures has entered into equipment lease agreements, most of which we and toshiba each guarantee half of the total outstanding obligations and some of which we guarantee in full for our share of the flash ventures investment. as of june 30, 2017 , the portion of outstanding flash ventures' lease obligations covered by our guarantees totaled approximately $968 million , based upon the japanese yen to u.s. dollar exchange rate at june 30, 2017 . the equipment lease agreements contain covenants and cancellation events that are customary for japanese lease facilities and that relate to flash ventures and each of the guarantors. cancellation events relating to the guarantors include, among other things, an assignment of all or a substantial part of a guarantor's business, a bankruptcy event involving a guarantor and acceleration of other monetary debts of a guarantor above a specified threshold. the breach of a covenant or the occurrence of another cancellation event could result in an acceleration of the flash ventures' lease obligations. if a cancellation event were to occur, flash ventures would be required to negotiate a resolution with the lessors, as well as other parties to the lease transactions, to avoid cancellation and acceleration of the lease obligations. such resolution could include, among other things, supplementary security to be supplied by us, as guarantor, increased interest rates or waiver fees. if a cancellation event occurs and we fail to reach a resolution, we may be required to pay all or a portion of the outstanding lease obligations covered by our guarantees, which would significantly reduce our cash position and may force us to seek additional financing, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. 35 table of contents any decisions to reduce or discontinue paying cash dividends to our shareholders could cause the market price for our common stock to decline. we may modify, suspend or cancel our cash dividend policy in any manner and at any time. any reduction or discontinuance by us of the payment of quarterly cash dividends could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. moreover, in the event our payment of quarterly cash dividends are reduced or discontinued, our failure or inability to resume paying cash dividends at historical levels could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations may negatively affect our operating results. because we manufacture and sell our products abroad, our revenue, cost of goods sold, margins, operating costs and cash flows are impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. if the u.s. dollar exhibits sustained weakness against most foreign currencies, the u.s. dollar equivalents of unhedged manufacturing costs could increase because a significant portion of our production costs are foreign-currency denominated. conversely, there would not be an offsetting impact to revenues since revenues are substantially u.s. dollar denominated. additionally, we negotiate and procure some of our component requirements in u.s. dollars from non-u.s. based vendors. if the u.s. dollar weakens against other foreign currencies, some of our component suppliers may increase the price they charge for their components in order to maintain an equivalent profit margin. in addition, our purchases of nand-flash memory from flash ventures and our investment in flash ventures are denominated in japanese yen. if the japanese yen appreciates against the u.s. dollar, our cost of purchasing nand-flash memory wafers and the cost to us of future capital funding of flash ventures would increase, which could negatively impact our operating results. if any of these events occur, they would have a negative impact on our operating results. prices for our products are substantially u.s. dollar denominated, even when sold to customers that are located outside the u.s. therefore, as a substantial portion of our sales are from countries outside the u.s., fluctuations in currency exchanges rates, most notably the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against other foreign currencies, contribute to variations in sales of products in impacted jurisdictions and could adversely impact demand and revenue growth. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside the u.s. we attempt to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into short-term, foreign exchange contracts. however, these contracts do not cover our full exposure, and can be canceled by the counterparty if currency controls are put in place. thus, our decisions and hedging strategy with respect to currency risks may not be successful and harm our operating results. further, the ability to enter into foreign exchange contracts with financial institutions is based upon our available credit from such institutions and compliance with covenants and other restrictions. operating losses, third party downgrades of our credit rating or instability in the worldwide financial markets could impact our ability to effectively manage our foreign currency exchange rate risk. hedging also exposes us to the credit risk of our counterparty financial institutions. increases in our customers' credit risk could result in credit losses and term extensions under existing contracts with customers with credit losses could result in an increase in our operating costs. some of our oem customers have adopted a subcontractor model that requires us to contract directly with companies, such as odms, that provide manufacturing and fulfillment services to our oem customers. because these subcontractors are generally not as well capitalized as our direct oem customers, this subcontractor model exposes us to increased credit risks. our agreements with our oem customers may not permit us to increase our product prices to alleviate this increased credit risk. additionally, as we attempt to expand our oem and distribution channel sales into emerging economies such as brazil, russia, india and china, the customers with the most success in these regions may have relatively short operating histories, making it more difficult for us to accurately assess the associated credit risks. any credit losses we may suffer as a result of these increased risks, or as a result of credit losses from any significant customer, especially in situations where there are term extensions under existing contracts with such customers, would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. our operating results fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from period to period due to many factors, which may result in a significant decline in our stock price. our quarterly operating results may be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a number of other factors including: weakness in demand for one or more product categories; 36 table of contents the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major customers, loss of major customers; our product mix; reductions in the asps of our products and lower margins; excess output, capacity or inventory, resulting in lower asps, financial charges or impairments, or insufficient output, capacity or inventory, resulting in lost revenue opportunities; inability to successfully transition to 3d nand or other technology developments, or other failure to reduce product costs to keep pace with reduction in asps; manufacturing delays or interruptions; delays in design wins or customer qualifications, acceptance by customers of competing products in lieu of our products; success of our partnerships and joint ventures, in particular the volume, timing and cost of wafer production at flash ventures, and our success in managing the relationships with our strategic partners; inability to realize the potential benefits of our acquisitions and the success of our integration efforts; ability to penetrate new markets for our storage solutions; variations in the cost of and lead times for components for our products, disruptions of our supply chain; limited availability of components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; seasonal and other fluctuations in demand often due to technological advances; increase in costs due to warranty claims; higher costs as a result of currency exchange rate fluctuations; and availability and rates of transportation. we often ship a high percentage of our total quarterly sales in the third month of the quarter, which makes it difficult for us to forecast our financial results before the end of the quarter. as a result of the above or other factors, our forecast of operating results for the quarter may differ materially from our actual financial results. if our results of operations fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, it could cause an immediate and significant decline in our stock price. we have made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting, and actual results may differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions. we have made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting. the highly technical nature of our products and the rapidly changing market conditions with which we deal means that actual results may differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions. these changes have impacted our financial results in the past and may continue to do so in the future. key estimates and assumptions for us include: price protection adjustments and other sales promotions and allowances on products sold to retailers, resellers and distributors; inventory adjustments for write-down of inventories to lower of cost or market value (net realizable value); testing of goodwill and other long-lived assets for impairment; accruals for product returns; 37 table of contents accruals for litigation and other contingencies; and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits. in addition, changes in existing accounting or taxation rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements or taxation practice could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. the market price of our common stock is volatile. the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. factors that may significantly affect the market price of our common stock include the following: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, including those resulting from the seasonality of our business; announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors, which may decrease the volume and profitability of sales of our existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence; new products introduced by us or our competitors; strategic actions by us or competitors, such as acquisitions and restructurings; periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price erosion resulting from competitive pressures or industry consolidation; developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights, and any litigation; proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments or anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us or our competitors; conditions and trends in the hard drive, solid-state storage, flash memory, computer, mobile, data and content management, storage and communication industries; contraction in our operating results or growth rates that are lower than our previous high growth-rate periods; failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates or changes in financial estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts relating specifically to us or the storage industry in general; announcements relating to dividends and share repurchases; and macroeconomic conditions that affect the market generally and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for our industry. in addition, the sale of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock, or the perception that these sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. further, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the stock prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the stock of public companies, including us. these broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of shares of our common stock. for example, expectations concerning general economic conditions may cause the stock market to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations from time to time that particularly affect the stock prices of many high technology companies. these fluctuations may be unrelated to the operating performance of the companies. securities class action lawsuits are often brought against companies after periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. a number of such suits have been filed against us in the past, and should any new lawsuits be filed, such matters could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources and management's attention. 38 table of contents our cash balances and investment portfolio are subject to various risks, any of which could adversely impact our financial position. given the international footprint of our business, we have both domestic and international cash balances and investments. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, security types, and maturities. these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, political, sovereign and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events that affect global financial markets. a material part of our investment portfolio consists of investment grade corporate securities, bank deposits, asset backed securities and u.s. government and agency securities. if global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods of decline, or if there is a downgrade of the u.s. government credit rating due to an actual or threatened default on government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that our investments may experience an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results. a failure of any of these financial institutions in which deposits exceed federal deposit insurance corporation ( fdic ) limits could also have an adverse impact on our financial position. in addition, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to repay our indebtedness, fund acquisitions, pay dividends, or repurchase shares of our common stock, we may choose or be required to increase our borrowings, if available, or to repatriate funds to the u.s. at a substantial tax cost. we must comply with regulations regarding the conversion and distribution of funds earned in the local currencies of various countries. if we cannot comply with these or other applicable regulations, we may face increased difficulties in using cash generated in these countries. if our internal controls are found to be ineffective, our stock price may be adversely affected. our most recent evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of june 30, 2017 , in compliance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, our internal control over financial reporting was effective. if our internal control over financial reporting is found to be ineffective or if we identify a material weakness in our financial reporting in future periods, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, we may be required to restate our financial results, our access to capital markets may be limited, and we may be subject to sanctions from regulatory agencies and the nasdaq global select market, each of which may adversely affect our stock price. from time to time we may become subject to income tax examinations or similar proceedings, and as a result we may incur additional costs and expenses or owe additional taxes, interest and penalties that may negatively impact our operating results. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and certain foreign jurisdictions, and our determination of our tax liability is subject to review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities. for example, as we have previously disclosed, we are under examination by the internal revenue service for certain fiscal years and in connection with that examination, we received a revenue agent's report seeking certain adjustments to income as disclosed in part ii, item 8, note 13 , income tax expense (benefit) , of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10 k . although we believe our tax positions are properly supported, the final timing and resolution of any tax examinations are subject to significant uncertainty and could result in our having to pay amounts to the applicable tax authority in order to resolve examination of our tax positions, which could result in an increase or decrease of our current estimate of unrecognized tax benefits and may negatively impact our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. we are subject to risks associated with loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities. portions of our operations are subject to a reduced tax rate or are free of tax under various tax holidays that expire in whole or in part from time to time, or may be terminated if certain conditions are not met. although many of these holidays may be extended when certain conditions are met, we may not be able to meet such conditions. if the tax holidays are not extended, or if we fail to satisfy the conditions of the reduced tax rate, then our effective tax rate could increase in the future. in addition, any actions by us to repatriate non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes may impact our effective tax rate. 39 table of contents changes in tax laws could increase our worldwide tax rate and materially affect our financial position and results of operations. tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws and regulations are passed and new interpretations of the laws are issued or applied. while the former u.s. administration and members of congress made public statements indicating that tax reform is a priority, and certain changes to the u.s. tax laws and regulations have been made and others proposed, additional changes may be proposed by the current u.s. administration or members of congress and new u.s. tax laws and regulations may go into effect. in addition, many countries in the european union and around the globe have adopted and/or proposed changes to current tax laws. further, organizations such as the organization for economic cooperation and development, have published action plans that, if adopted by countries where we do business, could increase our tax obligations in these countries. due to the large scale of our u.s. and international business activities, many of these enacted and proposed changes to the taxation of our activities could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk disclosure about foreign currency risk although the majority of our transactions are in u.s. dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. we purchase short-term, foreign exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for product costs and operating expenses denominated in foreign currencies. the purpose of entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. the contract maturity dates do not exceed 12 months. we do not purchase foreign exchange contracts for speculative or trading purposes. for additional information, see part ii, item 8, note 4 , fair value measurements and investments and note 5 , derivative instruments and hedging activities , of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10 k. as of june 30, 2017 , we had outstanding the foreign exchange contracts presented in the following table. the changes in fair values of these foreign exchange contracts would be largely offset in other income (expense) by corresponding changes in the fair values of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. contract amount weighted-average contract rate (1) unrealized gain (loss) (in millions, except weighted-average contract rate) british pound sterling $ 24 0.78 $ euro 1,100 0.87 3 japanese yen 1,092 111.55 (1 ) malaysian ringgit 118 4.39 2 philippine peso 117 50.26 (1 ) singapore dollar 49 1.39 1 thai baht 286 34.37 4 total forward contracts $ 2,786 $ 8 (1) expressed in units of foreign currency per u.s. dollar. during 2017 and 2016 , total net realized transaction and foreign exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to our consolidated financial statements . notwithstanding our efforts to mitigate some foreign exchange risks, we do not hedge all of our foreign currency exposures and there can be no assurance that our mitigating activities related to the exposures that we hedge will adequately protect us against risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. 60 table of contents disclosure about other market risks variable interest rate risk borrowings under our term loan a and our revolving credit facility bear interest at a rate per annum, at our option, of either an adjusted libor rate (subject to a 0.0% floor) plus an applicable margin of 2.00% or at a base rate plus an applicable margin of 1.0% ( 3.23% as of june 30, 2017 ). the applicable margin for the borrowings under our term loan a and our revolving credit facility will range, depending on our leverage, from 1.50% to 2.25% for libor loans and from 0.50% to 1.25% for base rate loans. borrowings under the u.s. term loan b-2 tranche bear interest at a rate per annum, at our option, of an adjusted libor rate, subject to a 0.75% floor, plus 2.75% or a base rate plus 1.75% ( 3.98% as of june 30, 2017 ). borrowings under the euro term loan b-2 tranche bear interest at a rate per annum, at our option, equal to an adjusted euribor rate, subject to a 0.75% floor, plus 2.00% ( 2.75% as of june 30, 2017 ). we have generally held a balance of fixed and variable rate debt. at june 30, 2017 , 61% of the par value of our debt was at variable rates. to balance the portfolio, we entered into a pay-fixed interest rate swap on $1.00 billion notional amount, which effectively converts a portion of our term loan to fixed rates through may 2020. as of june 30, 2017 , we had $8.10 billion of variable rate debt. after giving effect to the $1.00 billion of interest rate swaps, we effectively had $7.10 billion of long-term debt subject to variations in interest rates and a one percent increase in the variable rate of interest, subject to each loan's specific floor, would increase annual interest expense by $61 million . for additional information regarding our term loans and our interest rate swaps, see part ii, item 8, note 6 , debt , of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10 k . 61 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors our business, financial condition and operating results can be affected by a number of risks and uncertainties, whether currently known or unknown, any one or more of which could, directly or indirectly, cause our actual results of operations and financial condition to vary materially from past, or from anticipated future, results of operations and financial condition. the risks and uncertainties discussed below are not the only ones facing our business, but do represent those risks and uncertainties that we believe are material to us. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or the market price of our common stock. adverse global economic conditions and credit market uncertainty could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. adverse global economic conditions and uncertain conditions in the credit market have had, and in the future could have, a significant adverse effect on our company and on the storage industry as a whole. several factors contribute to these conditions and this uncertainty, including, but not limited to, volatility in the equity, credit and other financial markets and real estate markets, slower growth in certain geographic regions, lower levels of consumer liquidity, risk of default on sovereign debt, higher interest rates, materials and component cost increases, political uncertainty and other macroeconomic factors, such as the trade and tariff actions recently announced by the u.s., china and other countries, and changes to policies, rules and regulations. some of the risks and uncertainties we face as a result of these conditions include, but are not limited to, the following: our direct and indirect customers may delay or reduce their purchases of our products and systems containing our products. if demand for our products slows as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions, we may undertake restructuring activities to realign our cost structure with softening demand. we extend credit and payment terms to some of our customers and we could suffer significant losses if a customer whose accounts receivable we have not insured, or have underinsured, fails to pay us on their accounts receivable balances. if negative or uncertain global economic conditions result in circumstances, such as a sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization or a decrease in our forecasted cash flows, indicating that the carrying value of our long-lived assets or goodwill may be impaired, we could be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements . these actions and conditions could result in reductions in our revenue, increased operating costs, impairment charges and other expenses, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we rely substantially on our business ventures with toshiba memory corporation ( tmc ) for the supply of flash-based memory and the development of flash-based technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. we are dependent on our ventures with tmc to develop and manufacture flash-based memory products for our flash-based memory supply, and therefore our business, financial condition and operating results are dependent on the continued success of flash ventures. we partner with tmc on the development of flash-based technology, including the next technology transitions of flash-based memory, as well as other non-volatile memory technology in support of flash ventures. flash ventures is subject to various risks that could harm the value of our investments, our revenue and costs, our future rate of spending, our technology plans and our future growth opportunities. 12 table of contents substantially all of our flash-based memory is supplied by flash ventures, which limits our ability to respond to market demand and supply changes. a failure to accurately forecast demand could cause us to over-invest or under-invest in technology transitions or the expansion of captive memory capacity in flash ventures. over-investment could result in excess supply, which could cause significant decreases in our product prices, significant excess, obsolete inventory or inventory write-downs or under-utilization charges, and the potential impairment of our investments in flash ventures. on the other hand, if we or tmc under-invest in captive memory capacity or technology transitions, if we grow capacity more slowly than the rest of the industry, if our technology transitions do not occur on the timeline that we expect, if we encounter unanticipated difficulties in implementing these transitions, or if we implement technology transitions more slowly than our competitors, we may not have enough captive supply of the right type of memory or at all to meet demand on a timely and cost effective basis and we may lose opportunities for revenue, gross margin and market share as a result. if our flash-based memory supply is limited, we may make strategic decisions with respect to the allocation of our supply among our products and customers, and these strategic allocation decisions may result in less favorable gross margin or damage certain customer relationships. we are also contractually obligated to pay for 50% of the fixed costs of flash ventures regardless of whether we purchase any wafers from flash ventures. furthermore, purchase orders placed with flash ventures and under the foundry arrangements with tmc for up to three months are binding and cannot be canceled. therefore, once our purchase decisions have been made, our production costs for flash memory are fixed, and we may be unable to reduce costs to match any subsequent declines in pricing or demand, which would harm our gross margin. our limited ability to react to fluctuations in flash memory supply and demand makes our financial results particularly susceptible to variations from our forecasts and expectations. under the terms of our venture agreements with tmc, which govern the operations of flash ventures, we have limited power to unilaterally direct most of the activities that most significantly impact flash ventures' performance and we have limits to our ability to source or fabricate flash-based products outside of the flash ventures. we may not always agree with tmc on our joint r&amp;d roadmap or expansions or conversions of production capacity. in addition, tmc's shift in strategic priorities could adversely impact our business. on june 1, 2018, toshiba corporation announced it had completed the sale of tmc, including its interests in flash ventures, to a consortium led by sk hynix inc. and bain capital (the bain consortium ) that includes other competitors, as well as key customers. the sale of tmc to the bain consortium could lead to delays in decision-making, disputes, or changes in strategic direction that could adversely impact flash ventures and/or adversely affect our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. the bain consortium might not have the same interest that we do in protecting and growing flash ventures' business and there may exist conflicts of interest between the bain consortium and flash ventures or us. misalignment between us and tmc or the bain consortium on the strategic direction of flash ventures could adversely impact flash ventures' ability to stay at the forefront of technological advancement and/or our investment in flash ventures. flash ventures' competitiveness and/or our investment in flash ventures could also be harmed by a mishandling or misuse of ip or other competitively sensitive confidential information regarding flash ventures, such as its technology roadmap, business or investment plans, by a third party that might gain access to such information. flash ventures requires significant investments by both tmc and us for technology transitions, including the transition to 3d nand, and capacity expansions. the bain consortium has entered into financing agreements in connection with its purchase of tmc that could limit tmc's ability to timely fund or finance investments in flash ventures or our joint development efforts, as well as limit flash ventures' ability to enter into lease financings. to the extent that lease financings for flash ventures are not accessible on favorable terms or at all, more cash would be required to fund investments. if tmc does not or we do not provide sufficient resources, or have adequate access to credit, to timely fund investments in flash ventures, our investments could be delayed or reduced. delayed or reduced investment in manufacturing capacity or research and development by tmc or us could harm flash ventures' competitiveness and/or our investment in flash ventures. in addition, the financing arrangements that the bain consortium has entered into in connection with its purchase of tmc are secured by tmc's equity interests in flash ventures, permitting the lenders to foreclose on those equity interests under certain circumstances. tmc has announced that it is starting construction of a new wafer fabrication facility for the manufacture of 3d nand in kitakami, iwate, japan. although we intend to enter into agreements with tmc in due course to participate in the new kitakami facility, there is no certainty as to when, and on what terms, we will do so. if we are unable to extend our partnership with tmc to the kitakami facility on favorable terms, our future supply of captive flash-based memory could be adversely impacted, which could adversely affect our long-term business and financial results. 13 table of contents we participate in a highly competitive industry that is subject to volatile demand, declining average selling prices ( asps ), rapid technological change and industry consolidation, all of which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. demand for our devices, software and solutions that we offer to our customers, which we refer to in this item 1a as our products , depends in large part on the demand for systems (including personal computers ( pcs ) and mobile devices) manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems. the demand for systems has been volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand for our products in any given period. the prices of our products are influenced by, among other factors, the balance between supply and demand, including the effects of new fab capacity in the industry, macroeconomic factors, business conditions, technology transitions, and other actions taken by us or our competitors. the price of nand flash memory is also influenced by conversion of industry dram capacity to nand and conversion of 2d nand capacity to 3d nand. the storage market has experienced periods of excess capacity, which can lead to liquidation of excess inventories and significant reductions in price. if these price changes occur unnecessarily or in an unexpected manner, there will likely be an adverse impact on our revenue and gross margins. in addition, we compete based on our ability to offer our customers competitive solutions that provide the most current and desired product and service features. we expect that competition will continue to be intense, and there is a risk that our competitors may be able to gain a technological or cost structure advantage over us, which may allow their products to be less costly or enable them to provide better performance or to include additional features when compared to our products. further, some of our competitors may utilize certain pricing strategies, including offering products at prices at or below cost, that we may be unable to competitively match. in addition, the chinese government and various agencies, state-owned or affiliated enterprises and investment funds are making significant investments to promote china's domestic semiconductor industry consistent with the government's stated national policy objectives. if we are unable to effectively compete with any manufacturers located in china or non-chinese competitors benefitting from alliances with chinese companies in the markets where we compete, our operating results and financial condition will suffer. additionally, some of our competitors offer products and technologies that we do not offer and may be able to use their broader product and technology portfolio to win sales from us. our asps and gross margins also tend to decline when there is a shift in the mix of product sales, and sales of lower priced products increase relative to those of higher priced products. further, we face potential gross margin pressures resulting from our asps declining more rapidly than our cost of goods sold. rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and profitability of sales of existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence. finally, the data storage industry as a whole has experienced consolidation over the past several years through acquisitions, mergers and decisions by industry players to exit the industry. further consolidation across the industry could enhance the capacity, abilities and resources and lower the cost structure of some of our competitors, causing us to be at a competitive disadvantage. these factors, along with others, may also result in significant shifts in market share among the industry's major participants, including a substantial decrease in our market share, all of which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. expansion into new markets may increase the complexity of our business and cause us to increase our r&amp;d expenses and investments in manufacturing capability, technology enhancements and go-to-market capability, and if we are unable to successfully adapt our business processes and product offerings as required by these new markets, our ability to grow will be adversely affected. to remain a significant supplier in the storage industry and to expand into new markets, we will need to offer a broader range of storage products to our customers. as we expand our product lines to sell into new markets, the overall complexity of our business may increase at an accelerated rate and we may become subject to different market dynamics. these dynamics may include, among other things, different demand volume, cyclicality, seasonality, product requirements, sales channels, and warranty and return policies. in addition, expansion into new markets may result in increases in r&amp;d expenses and substantial investments in manufacturing capability, technology enhancements and go-to-market capability. if we fail to successfully expand into new markets with products that we do not currently offer, we may lose business to our competitors or new entrants who offer these products. 14 table of contents if we do not properly manage technology transitions, our competitiveness and operating results may be negatively affected. the storage markets in which we offer our products continuously undergo technology transitions that we must anticipate and adapt our products to address in a timely manner. if we fail to implement new technologies successfully, or if we are slower than our competitors at implementing new technologies, we may not be able to competitively offer products that our customers desire or keep pace with asp reduction, which could harm our operating results. for example, in transitioning our 2d nand manufacturing capacity to 3d nand technology, we could experience delays or other challenges in the production ramp, qualification of wafers, shipment of samples to customers or customer approval process. 3d nand and any new manufacturing node may be more susceptible to manufacturing yield issues. manufacturing yield issues may not be identified during the development or production process or solved until an actual product is manufactured and tested, further increasing our costs. if our technology transitions, including the production ramp of 3d nand technology, take longer, are more costly to complete than anticipated, or do not improve manufacturing yield or other manufacturing efficiencies, our flash memory costs may not remain competitive with other flash-based memory producers or may not fall commensurate with declines in the price of flash-based memory, which would harm revenues, our gross margin and operating results. for additional technology transition risks related to 3d nand, see the risk factors entitled we rely substantially on our business ventures with toshiba memory corporation ( tmc ) for the supply of flash-based memory and the development of flash-based technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results and our strategic relationships subject us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. with respect to hdds, we announced that we will use microwave-assisted magnetic recording (mamr) technology to increase hdd capacities. if our hdd technology transitions, including the production ramp of mamr hdds, take longer or are more costly to complete than anticipated or if we otherwise fail to implement new hdd technologies successfully, we may not remain competitive with other hdd producers, which could adversely affect our revenues, our gross margin and operating results. moving to new technologies may require us to align to, and build, a new supply base. our success in new product areas may be dependent in part on our ability to develop close relationships with new suppliers and on our ability to enter into favorable supply agreements. where this cannot be done, our business and operations may be adversely affected. in addition, if our customers choose to delay transition to new technologies, if demand for the products that we develop is lower than expected or if the supporting technologies to implement these new technologies are not available, we may be unable to achieve the cost structure required to support our profit objectives or may be unable to grow or maintain our market position. the substitution or replacement of our technologies and products by new technologies could make our products obsolete and harm our operating results. given the pace of technological development, there is a possibility that new technologies could substitute for or replace our current technologies and products and make them obsolete. historically, when the industry experiences a fundamental change in storage technologies or standards, any manufacturer that fails to successfully and timely adjust its designs and processes to accommodate or manufacture the new technology or standard fails to remain competitive. there are some revolutionary technologies that, if implemented by a competitor on a commercially viable basis ahead of the industry, could put us at a competitive disadvantage, including shingled magnetic recording, energy-assisted magnetic recording, patterned magnetic media and advanced signal processing. many companies, including some of our competitors, have also developed or are attempting to develop alternative non-volatile technologies, including non-nand technologies such as magnetoresistive random-access memory (mram), resistive random-access memory (reram) and phase change memory (pcm), and nand-based vertical or stacked 3d memories based on charge trap, floating gate and other cell architectures. 15 table of contents in addition, a provider of processors and non-volatile memory solutions may be developing a new standard to attach ultra-low latency non-volatile memory to its processor memory bus, which it may choose not to license to its competitors, resulting in it being a single source provider of such non-volatile memory solutions. as a result of these shifts in technology and standards, we could incur substantial costs in developing new technologies, such as recording heads, magnetic media and tools, in adopting new standards or in investing in different capital equipment or manufacturing processes to remain competitive. if we fail to successfully implement these new technologies or standards, or if we are significantly slower than our competitors at implementing new technologies or standards, we may not be able to offer products with capacities and capabilities that our customers desire, which could harm our operating results. if we do not properly manage new product development, our competitiveness and operating results may be negatively affected. our success depends in part on our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner in order to keep pace with technology advancements and compete with alternative storage technologies. if our products fail to offer a superior value proposition to alternative storage products, we will be at a competitive disadvantage and our business will suffer. as we introduce new products, standards or technologies, it can take time for these new standards or technologies to be adopted, for customers to accept and transition to these new standards or technologies and for significant sales to be generated, if at all. failure of our customers to adopt our new products, standards or technologies could harm our results of operations as we fail to reap the benefits of our investments. in addition, the success of our new product introductions depends on a number of other factors, including: difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp; implementing at an acceptable cost product features expected by our customers; our ability to successfully transition future core, processor and controller development to the risc-v architecture; market acceptance/qualification; effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand; our ability to respond to customer requests for new products and software associated with our products; our ability to incorporate open source software elements into our products and operate in an open source environment; quality problems or other defects in the early stages of new product introduction and problems with compatibility between our products and those of our customers that were not anticipated in the design of those products; our ability to increase our software development capability; and the effectiveness of our go-to-market capability in selling new products. our strategic relationships subject us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have entered into strategic relationships with various partners for future product development, sales growth and the supply of technologies, components, equipment and materials for use in our product design and manufacturing, including our partnership with tmc for flash-based memory development and manufacturing. see the risk factor entitled because we are dependent on a limited number of qualified suppliers, a disruption in our supply chain, including a shortage in supply or a supplier's failure to support us in a timely manner with goods or services at a quality level and cost acceptable to us, or supplier consolidation, could adversely affect our margins, revenues and operating results for a further description of the risks associated with our reliance on external suppliers. these strategic relationships are subject to various risks that could adversely affect the value of our investments and our results of operations and financial condition. these risks include, but are not limited to, the following: our interests could diverge from our partners' interests or we may not agree with co-venturers on ongoing activities, technology transitions or on the amount, timing or nature of further investments in the relationship; 16 table of contents we may experience difficulties and delays in product and technology development at, ramping production at, and transferring technology to, our business ventures; our control over the operations of our business ventures is limited; due to financial constraints, our co-venturers may be unable to meet their commitments to us or may pose credit risks for our transactions with them; due to differing business models, financial constraints or long-term business goals, our partners may decide not to join us in funding capital investment by our business ventures, which may result in higher levels of cash expenditures by us or prevent us from proceeding in the investment; we may lose the rights to technology or products being developed by the strategic relationship, including if any of our co-venturers is acquired by another company or otherwise transfers its interest in the business venture, files for bankruptcy or experiences financial or other losses; a bankruptcy event involving a co-venturer could result in the early termination or adverse modification of the business venture or agreements governing the business venture; we may experience difficulties or delays in collecting amounts due to us from our co-venturers; the terms of our arrangements may turn out to be unfavorable; and changes in tax, legal or regulatory requirements may necessitate changes in the agreements with our co-venturers. if our strategic relationships are unsuccessful or there are unanticipated changes in, or termination of, our strategic relationships, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. because we are dependent on a limited number of qualified suppliers, a disruption in our supply chain, including a shortage in supply or a supplier's failure to support us in a timely manner with goods or services at a quality level and cost acceptable to us, or supplier consolidation, could adversely affect our margins, revenues and operating results . we depend on an external supply base for technologies, software (including firmware), preamps, controller, components, equipment and materials for use in our product design and manufacturing. we also depend on suppliers for a portion of our wafer testing, chip assembly, product assembly and product testing, and on service suppliers for providing technical support for our products. in addition, we use logistics partners to manage our just-in-time hubs, distribution centers and freight from suppliers to our factories and from our factories to our customers throughout the world. many of the components and much of the equipment we acquire must be specifically designed to be compatible for use in our products or for developing and manufacturing our future products, and are only available from a limited number of suppliers, some of whom are our sole-source suppliers. we are therefore dependent on these suppliers to be able and willing to dedicate adequate engineering resources to develop components that can be successfully integrated into our products, technology and equipment. from time to time, our suppliers have experienced difficulty meeting our requirements. if we are unable to purchase sufficient quantities from our current suppliers or qualify and engage additional suppliers, we may not be able to meet demand for our products. delays or cost increases experienced by our suppliers in developing or sourcing materials and components for use in our products or incompatibility or quality issues relating to our products, could also harm our financial results as well as business relationships with our customers. we do not have long-term contracts with some of our existing suppliers, nor do we always have guaranteed manufacturing capacity with our suppliers and, therefore, we cannot guarantee that they will devote sufficient resources or capacity to manufacturing our products. any significant problems that occur at our suppliers, or their failure to perform at the level we expect, could lead to product shortages or quality assurance problems, either of which would harm our operating results and financial condition. in addition, if we are unable to purchase sufficient quantities from our current suppliers, we may not be able to engage alternative suppliers who are able or willing to provide goods or services in sufficient quantities or at a cost acceptable to us. 17 table of contents in addition, our supply base has experienced industry consolidation. our suppliers may be acquired by our competitors, consolidate, decide to exit the industry, or redirect their investments and increase costs to us, each of which may have an adverse effect on our business and operations. in addition, some of our suppliers have experienced a decline in financial performance. where we rely on a limited number of suppliers or a single supplier, the risk of supplier loss due to industry consolidation or a decline in financial performance is enhanced. some of our suppliers may also be competitors in other areas of our business, which could lead to difficulties in price negotiations or meeting our supply requirements. any disruption in our supply chain could reduce our revenue and adversely impact our financial results. see the risk factors entitled we rely substantially on our business ventures with toshiba memory corporation ( tmc ) for the supply of flash-based memory and the development of flash-based technology, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results and our strategic relationships subject us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations for additional risks related to our supply of flash memory and our strategic relationships. price volatility, shortages of critical materials or components, or use by other industries of materials and components used in the storage industry, or contractual commitments we enter into with suppliers to reduce the risk of component shortages, could increase our costs and may negatively impact our operating results. increases in the cost for certain critical materials and components and oil may increase our costs of manufacturing and transporting our products and key components and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to pass these increased costs on to our customers. shortages of critical components such as dram, flash-based memory and multi-layer ceramic capacitors (mlcc), or materials such as glass substrates, stainless steel, aluminum, nickel, neodymium, ruthenium, platinum or cerium, may increase our costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to find ways to mitigate these increased costs. we or our suppliers acquire certain precious metals and rare earth metals like ruthenium, platinum, neodymium and cerium, which are critical to the manufacture of components in our products from a number of countries, including the people's republic of china. the government of china or any other nation may impose regulations (such as the recently announced trade and tariff actions), quotas or embargoes upon these metals that would restrict the worldwide supply of such metals or increase their cost, both of which could negatively impact our operating results until alternative suppliers are sourced. furthermore, if other high volume industries increase their demand for materials or components used in our products, our costs may further increase, which could have an adverse effect on our operating margins. in addition, shortages in other components and materials used in our customers' products could result in a decrease in demand for our products, which would negatively impact our operating results. to reduce the risk of component shortages, we attempt to provide significant lead times when buying components, which may subject us to cancellation charges if we cancel orders as a result of technology transitions or changes in our component needs. in addition, we may from time to time enter into contractual commitments with component suppliers in an effort to increase and stabilize the supply of those components and enable us to purchase such components at favorable prices. some of these commitments may require us to buy a substantial number of components from the supplier or make significant cash advances to the supplier; however, these commitments may not result in a satisfactory increase or stabilization of the supply of such components and may cause us to have inadequate or excess component inventory, which could increase our operating costs and adversely affect our operating results. the loss of our key executive management, staff and skilled employees, the inability to hire and integrate new employees or decisions to realign our business could negatively impact our business prospects. our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key management, staff and skilled employees, many of whom would be extremely difficult to replace. global competition for skilled employees in the data storage industry is intense and, as we attempt to move to a position of technology leadership in the storage industry, our business success becomes increasingly dependent on our ability to retain our key staff and skilled employees, to attract, integrate and retain new skilled employees, including employees from acquisitions, and to make decisions to realign our business to take advantage of efficiencies or reduce redundancies. volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price and the overall markets may adversely affect our ability to retain key staff or skilled employees who have received equity compensation. additionally, because a substantial portion of our key employees' compensation is placed at risk and linked to the performance of our business, when our operating results are negatively impacted, we may be at a competitive disadvantage for retaining and hiring key management, staff and skilled employees versus other companies that may pay a relatively higher portion of fixed salary. if we lose our existing key management, staff or skilled employees, or are unable to hire and integrate new key management, staff or skilled employees, or if we fail to implement succession plans for our key management or staff, our operating results would likely be harmed. furthermore, if we do not realize the anticipated benefits of our intended realignment after we make decisions regarding our personnel and implement our realignment plans, our operating results could be adversely affected. 18 table of contents our operations, and those of certain of our suppliers and customers, are concentrated in large, purpose-built facilities, subjecting us to substantial risk of damage or loss if operations at any of these facilities are disrupted. as a result of our cost structure and strategy of vertical integration, we conduct our operations at large, high volume, purpose-built facilities in california and throughout asia. the current concentration of flash ventures in yokkaichi, japan, magnifies the risks of supply disruption. the facilities of many of our customers, our suppliers and our customers' suppliers are also concentrated in certain geographic locations throughout asia and elsewhere. a fire, flood, earthquake, tsunami or other natural disaster, condition or event such as a power outage, political instability, civil unrest, localized labor unrest or other employment issues, or a localized health risk that adversely affects any of these facilities or the employees or logistics operators at these facilities, would significantly affect our ability to manufacture or sell our products, which would result in a substantial loss of sales and revenue and a substantial harm to our operating results. in addition, the geographic concentration of our manufacturing sites could exacerbate the negative impacts resulting from any of these problems. a significant event that impacts any of our manufacturing sites, or the sites of our customers or suppliers, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture or sell our products, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. we may incur losses beyond the limits of, or outside the scope of, the coverage of our insurance policies. there can be no assurance that in the future we will be able to maintain existing insurance coverage or that premiums will not increase substantially. due to market availability, pricing or other reasons, we may elect not to purchase insurance coverage or to purchase only limited coverage. we maintain limited insurance coverage and, in some cases, no coverage at all, for natural disasters and environmental damages, as these types of insurance are sometimes not available or available only at a prohibitive cost. we depend upon tmc to obtain and maintain sufficient property, business interruption and other insurance for flash ventures. if tmc fails to do so, we could suffer significant unreimbursable losses, and such failure could also cause flash ventures to breach various financing covenants. manufacturing, marketing and selling our products globally subjects us to numerous risks. currently, a large portion of our revenue is derived from our international operations, and many of our products and components are produced overseas. our revenue and future growth is significantly dependent on the growth of international markets, and we may face difficulties in entering or maintaining international sales markets. we are subject to risks associated with our global manufacturing operations and global marketing and sales efforts, as well as risks associated with our utilization of and reliance on contract manufacturers, including: obtaining requisite governmental permits and approvals, compliance with foreign laws and regulations, changes in foreign laws and regulations; the need to comply with regulations on international business, including the foreign corrupt practices act, the united kingdom bribery act 2010, the anti-bribery laws of other countries and rules regarding conflict minerals; currency exchange rate fluctuations or restrictions; political and economic instability, civil unrest and natural disasters; limited transportation availability, delays, and extended time required for shipping, which risks may be compounded in periods of price declines; higher freight rates; labor challenges, including difficulties finding and retaining talent or responding to labor disputes or disruptions; trade restrictions, such as export bans, embargos, sanctions and license and certification requirements (including on encryption technology), new or increased tariffs and fees and complex customs regulations; copyright levies or similar fees or taxes imposed in european and other countries; exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations; increasing labor and overhead costs; 19 table of contents weaker protection of ip rights; difficulties in managing international operations, including appropriate internal controls; and loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities. as a result of these risks, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. some of these risks, such as trade restrictions, higher tariffs and fees, import and export restrictions or loss of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities, could increase as a result of changes to policies, rules and regulations. for example, beginning in early 2018, the u.s. commenced certain trade actions, including proposed new and increased tariffs on an evolving list of imported materials and products. countries have responded to these actions in various ways, including proposed tariff increases on products imported from the u.s. we cannot predict whether, or to what extent, there may be changes to international trade agreements or whether tariffs or other restrictions may be changed or imposed on our products or our supply chain. such tariffs, policy or regulatory changes or other trade restrictions could increase our cost of doing business, our ability to sell to certain customers, and our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. we experience sales seasonality and cyclicality, which could cause our operating results to fluctuate. sales of computer systems, mobile devices, storage subsystems, gaming consoles and consumer electronics tend to be seasonal and cyclical, and therefore we expect to continue to experience seasonality and cyclicality in our business as we respond to variations in our customers' demand for our products. however, changes in seasonal and cyclical patterns have made it, and could continue to make it, more difficult for us to forecast demand, especially as a result of the current macroeconomic environment. changes in the product or channel mix of our business can also impact seasonal and cyclical patterns, adding complexity in forecasting demand. seasonality and cyclicality also may lead to higher volatility in our stock price. it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which seasonality and cyclicality may affect our stock price or business in future periods because of the rate and unpredictability of product transitions and new product introductions and macroeconomic conditions. if we fail to identify, manage, complete and integrate acquisitions, investment opportunities or other significant transactions, which are a key part of our growth strategy, it may adversely affect our future results. we seek to be an industry-leading developer, manufacturer and provider of innovative storage solutions, balancing our core hard drive and flash memory business with growing investments in newer areas that we believe will provide us with higher growth opportunities. acquisitions of, investment opportunities in, or other significant transactions with companies that are complementary to our business are a key part of our overall business strategy. in order to pursue this part of our growth strategy successfully, we must continue to identify attractive acquisition or investment opportunities, successfully complete the transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as integration of the acquired company or employees. we may not be able to continue to identify or complete appealing acquisition or investment opportunities given the intense competition for these transactions. we are also subject to certain covenants in our debt agreements that place limits on our ability to complete acquisitions and investments. even if we identify and complete suitable corporate transactions, we may not be able to successfully address any integration challenges in a timely manner, or at all. failing to successfully integrate or realign our business to take advantage of efficiencies or reduce redundancies of an acquisition may result in not realizing all or any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. in addition, failing to achieve the financial model projections for an acquisition or changes in technology development and related roadmaps following an acquisition may result in the incurrence of impairment charges and other expenses, both of which could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. acquisitions and investments may also result in the issuance of equity securities that may be dilutive to our shareholders and the issuance of additional indebtedness that would put additional pressure on liquidity. furthermore, we may agree to provide continuing service obligations or enter into other agreements in order to obtain certain regulatory approvals of our corporate transactions, and failure to satisfy these additional obligations could result in our failing to obtain regulatory approvals or the imposition of additional obligations on us, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, new legislation or additional regulations may affect or impair our ability to invest with or in certain other countries or require us to obtain regulatory approvals to do so, including investments in joint ventures, minority investments and outbound technology transfers to certain countries 20 table of contents any cost savings initiatives or restructurings that we undertake may not deliver the results we expect, which may adversely affect our business. from time to time, we engage in cost savings initiatives and restructurings that may result in workforce reduction and consolidation of our manufacturing or other facilities. as a result of any cost savings initiatives or restructurings, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge, disruptions to our operations and inefficiency during transitional periods. these actions could also impact employee retention. in addition, we cannot be sure that these actions will be as successful in reducing our overall expenses as we expect or that additional costs will not offset any such reductions or consolidations. if our operating costs are higher than we expect or if we do not maintain adequate control of our costs and expenses, our operating results could be adversely affected. changes in demand for our products, changes in product life cycles and the failure to qualify our products and achieve design wins with our customers could adversely affect our sales, margins, asps and our ability to recover the cost of product development. events or circumstances that impact demand in the markets for our products, or our inability to address that demand successfully, could materially adversely impact our operating results. for example, demand for our products may be affected by, among other factors, the following: inconsistent demand from customers whose sales are correlated to large projects and expansions which can be sporadic; internal customer development of storage solutions; developments in the regulation and enforcement of digital rights management; emergence of new technologies; volatility in demand due to differing patterns of technology adoption and innovation; or concerns about data protection by end users. if we are not able to respond to these or other events or circumstances that impact demand for our products, it could lead to our customers' storage needs being satisfied by competing storage technologies, thereby decreasing our sales. as a result, even with increasing aggregate demand for digital storage, if we fail to anticipate or timely respond to the demand for storage, our sales, asps and gross margin could decline, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. product life cycles may lengthen or shorten, both of which could adversely affect gross margins or our ability to recover the cost of product development. we regularly engage in new product qualification with our customers, and the product qualification process may be lengthy for some customers. once a product is accepted for qualification testing, failures or delays in the qualification process can result in delayed or reduced product sales, reduced product margins or lost sales to that customer until the next generation of products is introduced. even if our products meet customer specifications, our sales to these customers are dependent upon the customers choosing our products over those of our competitors and purchasing our products in sufficient volume, our ability to supply our products in sufficient quantity and in a timely manner and, with respect to oem partners, the oems' ability to create, market and successfully sell products containing our solutions. our high level of debt may have an adverse impact on our liquidity, restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to business opportunities, and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. as of june 29, 2018 , our total indebtedness was $11.38 billion in aggregate principal, and we had $1.75 billion of additional borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility. our high level of debt could have significant consequences, which include, but are not limited to, the following: limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; 21 table of contents requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, r&amp;d and other general corporate purposes; imposing financial and other restrictive covenants on our operations, including limiting our ability to (i) declare or pay dividends or repurchase shares of our common stock; (ii) purchase assets, make investments, complete acquisitions, consolidate or merge with or into, or sell all or substantially all of our assets to, another person; (iii) dispose of assets; (iv) incur liens; and (v) enter into transactions with affiliates; placing us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors carrying less debt; and making us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limiting our ability to withstand competitive pressures or take advantage of new opportunities to grow our business. our ability to meet the debt service obligations contained in our debt agreements will depend on our available cash and our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. our bank debt also contains a variable interest rate component based on our corporate credit ratings, which could result in increased interest rates and debt service obligations if our ratings were to decline. if we are unable to meet our debt service obligations or should we fail to comply with our financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness, causing an event of default under the applicable indebtedness, the debt holders could accelerate the related debt and that may result in the cross-acceleration or cross-default of other debt, leases or other obligations. if we are required to repay our indebtedness before the applicable due dates, we may not have sufficient funds available and we may be required to refinance all or part of our debt, sell important strategic assets at unfavorable prices, incur additional indebtedness or issue common stock or other equity securities, which we may be unable to do on terms acceptable to us, in amounts sufficient to meet our needs or at all. our inability to service our debt obligations or refinance our debt could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our secured indebtedness, the holder of such debt could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. refinancing our indebtedness may also require us to expense previous debt issuance costs or to incur new debt issuance costs. in addition to our credit ratings impacting the interest rate on our current debt, our ratings impact the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, our cost of capital. our ratings reflect the opinions of the ratings agencies of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations. there can be no assurance that we will achieve a particular rating or maintain a particular rating in the future. we may from time to time seek to further refinance our substantial indebtedness by issuing additional shares of our common stock in one or more securities offerings. these securities offerings may dilute our existing shareholders, reduce the value of our common stock, or both. because our decision to issue securities will depend on, among other things, market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of any future securities offerings. thus, holders of our common stock bear the risk of our future offerings diluting and potentially reducing the value of our common stock. changes in tax laws could increase our worldwide tax rate and materially affect our financial position and results of operations. on december 22, 2017, the president of the united states of america signed the tax cuts and jobs act (the 2017 act ), which includes a broad range of tax reform proposals affecting businesses, including a reduction in the u.s. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% , a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred, and a new minimum tax on certain foreign earnings. the 2017 act significantly impacts our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2018 as a result of the deemed repatriation tax and may impact several other elements of our operating model. in future years, certain additional provisions of the 2017 act, such as the minimum tax on certain foreign earnings, will also apply to us and, as a result, we generally expect our effective tax rate to increase from the fiscal year 2018 rate (excluding the mandatory deemed repatriation tax and the re-measurement of deferred taxes). taxes due over a period of time as a result of the 2017 act could be accelerated upon certain triggering events, including failure to pay such taxes when due. the 2017 act makes broad and complex changes to the u.s. tax code and we expect to see future regulatory, administrative or legislative guidance. we are analyzing the 2017 act to determine the full impact of the new tax law, and to the extent any future guidance differs from our preliminary interpretation of the law, it could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. 22 table of contents in addition, many countries in the european union and around the globe have adopted and/or proposed changes to current tax laws. further, organizations such as the organization for economic cooperation and development, have published action plans that, if adopted by countries where we do business, could increase our tax obligations in these countries. due to the large scale of our u.s. and international business activities, many of these enacted and proposed changes to the taxation of our activities could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. we are subject to risks associated with loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities. portions of our operations are subject to a reduced tax rate or are free of tax under various tax holidays that expire in whole or in part from time to time, or may be terminated if certain conditions are not met. although many of these holidays may be extended when certain conditions are met, we may not be able to meet such conditions. if the tax holidays are not extended, or if we fail to satisfy the conditions of the reduced tax rate, then our effective tax rate could increase in the future. from time to time we may become subject to income tax examinations or similar proceedings, and as a result we may incur additional costs and expenses or owe additional taxes, interest and penalties that may negatively impact our operating results. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and certain foreign jurisdictions, and our determination of our tax liability is subject to review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities. for example, as we have previously disclosed, we are under examination by the internal revenue service for certain fiscal years and in connection with that examination, we received a statutory notice of deficiency seeking certain adjustments to income as disclosed in part ii, item 8, note 13, income tax expense (benefit) , of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10 k. although we believe our tax positions are properly supported, the final timing and resolution of any tax examinations are subject to significant uncertainty and could result in our having to pay amounts to the applicable tax authority in order to resolve examination of our tax positions, which could result in an increase or decrease of our current estimate of unrecognized tax benefits and may negatively impact our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. if our technology infrastructure, systems or products are compromised, damaged or interrupted by cyber attacks, data security breaches, other security problems, security vulnerabilities or design defects, or sustain system failures, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. we experience cyber attacks of varying degrees on our technology infrastructure and systems and, as a result, unauthorized parties have obtained in the past, and may in the future obtain, access to our computer systems and networks, including cloud-based platforms. the technology infrastructure and systems of our suppliers, vendors, service providers, cloud solution providers and partners may also experience such attacks. cyber attacks can include computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, worms, and other malicious software programs or other attacks, covert introduction of malware to computers and networks, impersonation of authorized users, and efforts to discover and exploit any design flaws, bugs, security vulnerabilities or security weaknesses, as well as intentional or unintentional acts by employees or other insiders with access privileges, intentional acts of vandalism by third parties and sabotage. in some instances, efforts to correct vulnerabilities or prevent attacks may reduce the performance of our computer systems and networks, which could negatively impact our business. we believe cyber attack attempts are increasing in number and that cyber attackers are developing increasingly sophisticated systems and means to not only attack systems, but also to evade detection or to obscure their activities. our products are also targets for cyber attacks, including those products utilized in cloud-based environments as well as our cloud service offerings. while some of our products contain encryption or security algorithms to protect third-party content or user-generated data stored on our products, these products could still be hacked or the encryption schemes could be compromised, breached, or circumvented by motivated and sophisticated attackers. we have agreed with certain customers and strategic partners, including tmc, to undertake certain commitments to promote information security, and we may be liable to tmc or such other parties if we fail to meet our cyber security commitments. in addition, our technology infrastructure and systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss and telecommunications failures. further, our products contain sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that may contain security problems, security vulnerabilities, or defects in design or manufacture, including bugs and other problems that could interfere with the intended operation of our products. 23 table of contents if efforts to breach our infrastructure, systems or products are successful or we are unable to protect against these risks, we could suffer interruptions, delays, or cessation of operations of our systems, and loss or misuse of proprietary or confidential information, ip, or sensitive or personal information. breaches of our infrastructure, systems or products could also cause our customers and other affected third parties to suffer loss or misuse of proprietary or confidential information, ip, or sensitive or personal information, and could harm our relationships with customers and other third parties. as a result, we could experience additional costs, indemnification claims, litigation, and damage to our brand and reputation. all of these consequences could harm our reputation and our business and materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. sales in the distribution channel and to the retail market are important to our business, and if we fail to respond to demand changes within these markets, or maintain and grow our applicable market share, our operating results could suffer. our distribution customers typically sell to small computer manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators and other resellers. we face significant competition in this channel as a result of limited product qualification programs and a significant focus on price and availability of product. in addition, the pc market is experiencing a shift to notebook and other mobile devices and, as a result, more computing devices are being delivered to the market as complete systems, which could weaken the distribution market. if we fail to respond to changes in demand in the distribution market, our operating results could suffer. additionally, if the distribution market weakens as a result of a slowing pc growth rate, technology transitions or a significant change in consumer buying preference, or if we experience significant price declines due to demand changes in the distribution channel, then our operating results would be adversely affected. negative changes in the credit-worthiness or the ability to access credit, or the bankruptcy or shutdown of any of our significant retail or distribution partners would harm our revenue and our ability to collect outstanding receivable balances. a significant portion of our sales is also made through retailers. our success in the retail market depends in large part on our ability to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation and to expand into and gain market acceptance of our products in multiple retail market channels. particularly in the retail market, adverse publicity, whether or not justified, or allegations of product or service quality issues, even if false or unfounded, could damage our reputation and cause our customers to choose products offered by our competitors. if customers no longer maintain a preference for our product brands or if our retailers are not successful in selling our products, our operating results may be adversely affected. loss of market share with or by a key customer, or consolidation among our customer base, could harm our operating results. during the year ended june 29, 2018 , 42% of our revenue came from sales to our top 10 customers. these customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial demands on us, including demands on product pricing and on contractual terms, often resulting in the allocation of risk to us as the supplier. our ability to maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is essential to our future performance. if we lose a key customer, if any of our key customers reduce their orders of our products or require us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, if a customer is acquired by one of our competitors or if a key customer suffers financial hardship, our operating results and financial condition would likely be harmed. additionally, if there is consolidation among our customer base, our customers may be able to command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. consolidation among our customer base may also lead to reduced demand for our products, increased customer pressure on our prices, replacement of our products by the combined entity with those of our competitors and cancellations of orders, each of which could harm our operating results. also, the storage ecosystem is constantly evolving, and our traditional customer base is changing. fewer companies now hold greater market share for certain applications and services, such as mobile, social media, shopping and streaming media. as a result, the competitive landscape is changing, giving these companies increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. in addition, the changes in our evolving customer base create new selling and distribution patterns to which we must adapt. to remain competitive, we must respond to these changes by ensuring we have proper scale in this evolving market, as well as offer products that meet the technological requirements of this customer base at competitive pricing points. to the extent we are not successful in adequately responding to these changes, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. 24 table of contents we make significant investments in r&amp;d to improve our technology and develop new technologies, and unsuccessful investments or investments that are not cost effective could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we make significant r&amp;d investments to maintain our existing products and to lead innovation and development of new technologies. in addition, we may increase our capital expenditures and expenses above our historical run-rate model in order to remain competitive. the challenges of reducing operating costs could result in more costly capital expenditures that reduce the cost benefits of technology transitions and could limit our ability to keep pace with reductions in asps. our r&amp;d investments may not result in viable technologies or products, and even if they do result in viable technologies or products, they may not be profitable or accepted by the market. in addition, if we are not able to improve our technology or develop new technologies at the same rate as our competitors or at a rate that is expected by our customers, we may be required to incur additional costs to meet demand without corresponding incremental revenue, which could negatively impact our operating margins and make achieving historical levels of cost reduction difficult or unlikely. significant investments in unsuccessful or cost-ineffective r&amp;d efforts could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, increased investments in technology could cause our cost structure to fall out of alignment with demand for our products, which would have a negative impact on our financial results. we are subject to risks related to product defects or the unintended use or security breaches of our products, which could result in product recalls or epidemic failures and could subject us to warranty claims in excess of our warranty provisions or which are greater than anticipated, litigation or indemnification claims. we warrant the majority of our products for periods of one to five years. we test our products in our manufacturing facilities through a variety of means. however, our testing may fail to reveal defects in our products that may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market. in addition, our products may be used in a manner that is not intended or anticipated by us, resulting in potential liability. accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will occur, which could require a product recall. product recalls can be expensive to implement. as part of a product recall, we may be required or choose to replace the defective product. moreover, there is a risk that product defects may trigger an epidemic failure clause in a customer agreement. if an epidemic failure occurs, we may be required to replace or refund the value of the defective product and to cover certain other costs associated with the consequences of the epidemic failure. in addition, product defects, product recalls or epidemic failures may cause damage to our reputation or customer relationships, lost revenue, indemnification for a recall of our customers' products, warranty claims, litigation or loss of market share with our customers, including our oem and original design manufacturers ( odm ) customers. our business liability insurance may be inadequate or future coverage may be unavailable on acceptable terms, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. our standard warranties contain limits on damages and exclusions of liability for consequential damages and for misuse, improper installation, alteration, accident or mishandling while in the possession of someone other than us. we record an accrual for estimated warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. we may incur additional expenses if our warranty provision do not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues related to defects in our products, whether as a result of a product recall, epidemic failure or otherwise. if these additional expenses are significant, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. certain of our products contain encryption or security algorithms to protect third party content and user-generated data stored on our products. to the extent our products are hacked or the encryption schemes are compromised or breached, this could harm our business by hurting our reputation, requiring us to employ additional resources to fix the errors or defects and expose us to litigation and indemnification claims. in addition, third-party components or applications that we incorporate or use in our products may contain defects in design or manufacturing that could unexpectedly result in epidemic failures, security vulnerabilities or performance issues and subject us to liability. 25 table of contents we and certain of our officers are at times involved in litigation, investigations and governmental proceedings, which may be costly, may divert the efforts of our key personnel and could result in adverse court rulings, fines or penalties, which could materially harm our business. we are involved in litigation, including cases involving our ip rights and those of others, antitrust and commercial matters, putative securities class action suits and other actions. we are the plaintiff in some of these actions and the defendant in others. some of the actions seek injunctive relief, including injunctions against the sale of our products, and substantial monetary damages, which if granted or awarded, could materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results. from time to time, we may also be the subject of inquiries, requests for information, investigations and actions by government and regulatory agencies regarding our businesses. any such matters could result in material adverse consequences to our results of operations, financial condition or ability to conduct our business, including fines, penalties or restrictions on our business activities. litigation is subject to inherent risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. in the event of an adverse outcome in any litigation, investigation or governmental proceeding, we could be required to pay substantial damages, fines or penalties and cease certain practices or activities, including the manufacture, use and sale of products. with or without merit, such matters can be complex, can extend for a protracted period of time, can be very expensive and the expense can be unpredictable. litigation initiated by us could also result in counter-claims against us, which could increase the costs associated with the litigation and result in our payment of damages or other judgments against us. in addition, litigation, investigations or governmental proceedings and any related publicity may divert the efforts and attention of some of our key personnel and may also harm the market prices of our securities. we may be obligated to indemnify our current or former directors or employees, or former directors or employees of companies that we have acquired, in connection with litigation, investigations or governmental proceedings. these liabilities could be substantial and may include, among other things: the costs of defending lawsuits against these individuals; the cost of defending shareholder derivative suits; the cost of governmental, law enforcement or regulatory investigations or proceedings; civil or criminal fines and penalties; legal and other expenses; and expenses associated with the remedial measures, if any, which may be imposed. we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the u.s. and other countries relating to the collection, use, sharing, and security of third-party data including personal data, and our failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could subject us to proceedings by governmental entities or others and cause us to incur penalties, significant legal liability, or loss of customers, loss of revenue, and reputational harm . we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations in the u.s. and other countries relating to the collection, use, and security of third-party data including data that relates to or identifies an individual person. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, and among us, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations. our possession and use of third-party data, including personal data and employee data in conducting our business subjects us to legal and regulatory burdens that may require us to notify vendors, customers or employees or other parties with which we have commercial relations of a data security breach and to respond to regulatory inquiries and to enforcement proceedings. global privacy and data protection legislation, enforcement, and policy activity in this area are rapidly expanding and evolving, and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. compliance requirements and even our inadvertent failure to comply with applicable laws may cause us to incur substantial costs, subject us to proceedings by governmental entities or others, and cause us to incur penalties or other significant legal liability, or lead us to change our business practices. the nature of our industry and its reliance on ip and other proprietary information subjects us and our suppliers, customers and partners to the risk of significant litigation. the data storage industry has been characterized by significant litigation. this includes litigation relating to patent and other ip rights, product liability claims and other types of litigation. we have historically been involved in frequent disputes regarding patent and other ip rights, and we have in the past received, and we may in the future receive, communications from third parties asserting that certain of our products, processes or technologies infringe upon their patent rights, copyrights, trademark rights or other ip rights. we may also receive claims of potential infringement if we attempt to license ip to others. ip risks increase when we enter into new markets where we have little or no ip protection as a defense against litigation. the complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of ip litigation increase the ip risks we face. litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. moreover, the results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may result in adverse rulings or decisions. we may be subject to injunctions, enter into settlements or be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. 26 table of contents if we incorporate third-party technology into our products or if claims or actions are asserted against us for alleged infringement of the ip of others, we may be required to obtain a license or cross-license, modify our existing technology or design a new non-infringing technology. such licenses or design modifications can be extremely costly. we evaluate notices of alleged patent infringement and notices of patents from patent holders that we receive from time to time. we may decide to settle a claim or action against us, which settlement could be costly. we may also be liable for any past infringement. if there is an adverse ruling against us in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued barring production or sale of any infringing product. it could also result in a damage award equal to a reasonable royalty or lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement, treble damages. any of these results would increase our costs and harm our operating results. in addition, our suppliers, customers and partners are subject to similar risks of litigation, and a material, adverse ruling against a supplier, customer or partner could negatively impact our business. moreover, from time to time, we agree to indemnify certain of our suppliers and customers for alleged ip infringement. the scope of such indemnity varies but may include indemnification for direct and consequential damages and expenses, including attorneys' fees. we may be engaged in litigation as a result of these indemnification obligations. third party claims for patent infringement are excluded from coverage under our insurance policies. a future obligation to indemnify our customers or suppliers may harm our business, financial condition and operating results. our reliance on ip and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients of our business could be copied by competitors. our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary nature of our technology, including non-patentable ip such as our process technology. we primarily rely on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. there can be no assurance that our existing patents will continue to be held valid, if challenged, or that they will have sufficient scope or strength to protect us. it is also possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose, illegally or otherwise, our proprietary technologies and processes, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. if a competitor is able to reproduce or otherwise capitalize on our technology despite the safeguards we have in place, it may be difficult, expensive or impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. there are entities whom we believe may infringe our ip. enforcement of our rights often requires litigation. if we bring a patent infringement action and are not successful, our competitors would be able to use similar technology to compete with us. moreover, the defendant in such an action may successfully countersue us for infringement of their patents or assert a counterclaim that our patents are invalid or unenforceable. also, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our ip to the same extent as do u.s. laws. in addition to patent protection of ip rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. we rely upon employee, consultant and vendor non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. however, any of our registered or unregistered ip rights may be challenged or exploited by others in the industry, which could harm our operating results. the success of our branded products depends in part on the positive image that consumers have of our brands. we believe the popularity of our brands makes them a target of counterfeiting or imitation, with third parties attempting to pass off counterfeit products as our products. any occurrence of counterfeiting, imitation or confusion with our brands could adversely affect our reputation and impair the value of our brands, which in turn could negatively impact sales of our branded products, our share and our gross margin, as well as increase our administrative costs related to brand protection and counterfeit detection and prosecution. 27 table of contents the costs of compliance with state, federal and international legal and regulatory requirements, such as environmental, labor, trade, health, safety, data privacy, anti-corruption and tax regulations, customers' standards of corporate citizenship, and industry and coalition standards, such as those established by the responsible business alliance ( rba ), could cause an increase in our operating costs. we are subject to, and may become subject to additional, state, federal and international laws and regulations governing our environmental, labor, trade, health, safety, data privacy, anti-corruption and tax practices. these laws and regulations, particularly those applicable to our international operations, are or may be complex, extensive and subject to change. we will need to ensure that we and our suppliers and partners timely comply with such laws and regulations, which may result in an increase in our operating costs. legislation has been, and may in the future be, enacted in locations where we manufacture or sell our products. in addition, climate change and financial reform legislation is a significant topic of discussion and has generated and may continue to generate federal, international or other regulatory responses in the near future. if we or our suppliers or partners fail to timely comply with applicable legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our products or we may face increased operating costs as a result of taxes, fines or penalties, or legal liability and reputational damage, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. in connection with our compliance with environmental laws and regulations, as well as our compliance with industry and coalition environmental initiatives, such as those established by the rba, the standards of business conduct required by some of our customers, and our commitment to sound corporate citizenship in all aspects of our business, we could incur substantial compliance and operating costs and be subject to disruptions to our operations and logistics. in addition, if we were found to be in violation of these laws or noncompliant with these initiatives or standards of conduct, we could be subject to governmental fines, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation and corporate brand which could cause our financial condition and operating results to suffer. violation of applicable laws, including labor or environmental laws, and certain other practices by our suppliers, customers or partners could harm our business. we expect our suppliers, customers and partners to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including labor and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required standards of conduct. while our internal operating guidelines promote ethical business practices, we do not control our suppliers, customers, partners or their labor or environmental practices. the violation of labor, environmental or other laws by any of them, or divergence of their business practices from those generally accepted as ethical, could harm our business by interrupting or otherwise disrupting the shipment of our product components, damaging our reputation, forcing us to find alternate component sources, reducing demand for our products (for example, through a consumer boycott), or exposing us to potential liability for our suppliers', customers' or partners' wrongdoings. our failure to accurately forecast market and customer demand for our products, or to quickly adjust to forecast changes, could adversely affect our business and financial results or operating efficiencies. the data storage industry faces difficulties in accurately forecasting market and customer demand for its products. the variety and volume of products we manufacture are based in part on these forecasts. accurately forecasting demand has become increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers in light of the volatility in global economic conditions and industry consolidation, resulting in less availability of historical market data for certain product segments. further, for many of our oems utilizing just-in-time inventory, we do not generally require firm order commitments and instead receive a periodic forecast of requirements, which may prove to be inaccurate. in addition, because our products are designed to be largely interchangeable with competitors' products, our demand forecasts may be impacted significantly by the strategic actions of our competitors. as forecasting demand becomes more difficult, the risk that our forecasts are not in line with demand increases. if our forecasts exceed actual market demand, then we could experience periods of product oversupply, excess inventory, and price decreases, which could impact our sales, asps and gross margin, thereby adversely affecting our operating results and our financial condition. if market demand increases significantly beyond our forecasts or beyond our ability to add manufacturing capacity, then we may not be able to satisfy customer product needs, possibly resulting in a loss of market share if our competitors are able to meet customer demands. in addition, some of our components have long lead-times, requiring us to place orders several months in advance of anticipated demand. such long lead-times increase the risk of excess inventory or loss of sales in the event our forecasts vary substantially from actual demand. 28 table of contents our vertical integration of some of our products makes us dependent on our ability to timely and cost-effectively develop products with leading technology and overall quality, increasing capital expenditure costs and asset utilization risks for our business. we develop flash-based memory as well as other non-volatile memory technology through our partnership with tmc; we are also vertically integrated in a substantial portion of the recording heads and magnetic media used in the hard drive products we produce. consequently, for some of our products, we are more dependent upon our own development and execution efforts and less able to take advantage of technologies developed by other manufacturers. since we may not have access to alternative technologies that we do not develop internally, we may have to pay royalties in order to access those technologies. in addition, we may be unsuccessful in timely and cost-effectively developing and manufacturing products using future technologies. we also may not effectively transition our design and technology to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields using the technologies necessary to satisfy our customers' product needs, or we may encounter quality problems with the products we manufacture. if we are unable to timely and cost-effectively develop products with leading technology and overall quality, continuing the cost reductions necessary to maintain adequate gross margin and our ability to sell our products may be significantly diminished, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. further, as a result of our vertical integration of some of our products, we make more capital investments and carry a higher percentage of fixed costs than we would if we were not vertically integrated. if our overall level of production decreases for any reason, and we are unable to reduce our fixed costs to match sales, some of our assets may face underutilization that may impact our operating results. we are therefore subject to additional risks related to overall asset utilization, including the need to operate at high levels of utilization to drive competitive costs and the need for assured supply of components that we do not manufacture ourselves. in addition, as a result of adverse labor rates or availability, we may be required to increase investments in automation, which may cause our capital expenditures to increase. if we do not adequately address these challenges, our ongoing operations could be disrupted, resulting in a decrease in our revenue or profit margins and negatively impacting our operating results. terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business and operating results. the continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility have created, and may continue to create, uncertainty in the financial and insurance markets and have significantly increased the political, economic and social instability in some of the geographic areas in which we, our suppliers or our customers operate. additionally, it is uncertain what impact the reactions to such acts by various governmental agencies and security regulators worldwide will have on shipping costs. future acts of terrorism, either domestically or abroad, could create further uncertainties and instability. to the extent this results in disruption or delays of our manufacturing capabilities, r&amp;d activities (including our operations in israel) or shipments of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. any of these events could also increase volatility in the u.s. and world financial markets, which could have a negative effect on our stock price and may limit the capital resources available to us and our customers or suppliers, or adversely affect consumer confidence. sudden disruptions to the availability of air transportation, or ocean or land freight lanes, could have an impact on our operations. we generally ship our products to our customers, and receive shipments from our suppliers, via air, ocean or land freight. the sudden unavailability or disruption of air transportation, cargo operations or ocean, rail or truck freight lanes caused by, among other things, labor difficulties or disputes, severe weather patterns or other natural disasters, or political instability or civil unrest, could impact our operating results by impairing our ability to timely and efficiently receive shipments from our suppliers or deliver our products. 29 table of contents our license and royalty revenue may fluctuate or decline significantly in the future due to license agreement expirations or renewals, declines in sales of the products or use of technology underlying the license and royalty revenue by our licensees, or if licensees fail to perform on a portion or all of their contractual obligations. if our existing licensees do not renew their licenses upon expiration, renew or sign new agreements on less favorable terms, exercise their option to terminate the license or fail to exercise their option to extend the licenses, or we are not successful in signing new licensees in the future, our license revenue, profitability and cash provided by operating activities would be harmed and we may incur significant patent litigation costs to enforce our patents against these licensees. as our older patents expire, and the coverage of our newer patents may be different, it may be more difficult to negotiate or renew favorable license agreement terms or a license agreement at all. our agreements may require us in certain instances to recognize license revenue related to a particular licensee all in one period instead of over time, which could create additional volatility in our licensing revenue. a portion of our license and royalty revenue is based on sales of product categories as well as the underlying technology, and fluctuations in the sales of those products or technology adoption rates would also result in fluctuations in the license and royalty revenue due to us under our agreements. if our licensees or we fail to perform on contractual obligations, we may incur costs to enforce or defend the terms of our licenses and there can be no assurance that our enforcement, defense or collection efforts will be effective. if we license new ip from third parties or existing licensees, we may be required to pay license fees, royalty payments or offset existing license revenue. we may enter into agreements with customers, suppliers or partners that could limit our ability to monetize our ip or could result in us being required to provide ip indemnification to our customers, suppliers or partners. in addition, we may be subject to disputes, claims or other disagreements on the timing, amount or collection of royalties or license payments under our license agreements. flash ventures' equipment lease agreements contain covenants and other cancellation events, and cancellation of the leases would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. flash ventures sells to and leases back from a consortium of financial institutions ( lessors ) a portion of its equipment and flash ventures has entered into equipment lease agreements, most of which we and tmc each guarantee half of the total outstanding obligations and some of which we guarantee in full for our share of the flash ventures investment. as of june 29, 2018 , the portion of outstanding flash ventures' lease obligations covered by our guarantees totaled approximately $1.22 billion , based upon the japanese yen to u.s. dollar exchange rate at june 29, 2018 . the equipment lease agreements contain covenants and cancellation events that are customary for japanese lease facilities and that relate to flash ventures and each of the guarantors. cancellation events relating to the guarantors include, among other things, an assignment of all or a substantial part of a guarantor's business, a bankruptcy event involving a guarantor and acceleration of other monetary debts of a guarantor above a specified threshold. the breach of a covenant or the occurrence of another cancellation event could result in an acceleration of the flash ventures' lease obligations. if a cancellation event were to occur, flash ventures would be required to negotiate a resolution with the lessors, as well as other parties to the lease transactions, to avoid cancellation and acceleration of the lease obligations. such resolution could include, among other things, supplementary security to be supplied by us, as guarantor, increased interest rates or waiver fees. if a cancellation event occurs and we fail to reach a resolution, we may be required to pay all or a portion of the outstanding lease obligations covered by our guarantees, which would significantly reduce our cash position and may force us to seek additional financing, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. any decisions to reduce or discontinue paying cash dividends to our shareholders or to reduce or discontinue repurchases of shares of our common stock pursuant to our previously announced stock repurchase program could cause the market price for our common stock to decline. we may modify, suspend or cancel our cash dividend policy in any manner and at any time. in addition, we may reduce or discontinue repurchases of shares of our common stock as we deem appropriate and as market conditions allow. any reduction or discontinuance by us of the payment of quarterly cash dividends or the repurchases of our common stock pursuant to our stock repurchase program could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. moreover, in the event our payment of quarterly cash dividends or repurchases of shares of our common stock are reduced or discontinued, our failure or inability to resume paying cash dividends or repurchasing shares of our common stock at historical levels could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. 30 table of contents fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations may negatively affect our operating results. because we manufacture and sell our products abroad, our revenue, cost of goods sold, margins, operating costs and cash flows are impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. if the u.s. dollar exhibits sustained weakness against most foreign currencies, the u.s. dollar equivalents of unhedged manufacturing costs could increase because a significant portion of our production costs are foreign-currency denominated. conversely, there would not be an offsetting impact to revenues since revenues are substantially u.s. dollar denominated. additionally, we negotiate and procure some of our component requirements in u.s. dollars from non-u.s. based vendors. if the u.s. dollar weakens against other foreign currencies, some of our component suppliers may increase the price they charge for their components in order to maintain an equivalent profit margin. in addition, our purchases of flash-based memory from flash ventures and our investment in flash ventures are denominated in japanese yen. if the japanese yen appreciates against the u.s. dollar, our cost of purchasing flash-based memory wafers and the cost to us of future capital funding of flash ventures would increase, which could negatively impact our operating results. if any of these events occur, they would have a negative impact on our operating results. prices for our products are substantially u.s. dollar denominated, even when sold to customers that are located outside the u.s. therefore, as a substantial portion of our sales are from countries outside the u.s., fluctuations in currency exchanges rates, most notably the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against other foreign currencies, contribute to variations in sales of products in impacted jurisdictions and could adversely impact demand and revenue growth. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside the u.s. we attempt to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into short-term, foreign exchange contracts. however, these contracts do not cover our full exposure, and can be canceled by the counterparty if currency controls are put in place. thus, our decisions and hedging strategy with respect to currency risks may not be successful and harm our operating results. further, the ability to enter into foreign exchange contracts with financial institutions is based upon our available credit from such institutions and compliance with covenants and other restrictions. operating losses, third party downgrades of our credit rating or instability in the worldwide financial markets could impact our ability to effectively manage our foreign currency exchange rate risk. hedging also exposes us to the credit risk of our counterparty financial institutions. increases in our customers' credit risk could result in credit losses and term extensions under existing contracts with customers with credit losses could result in an increase in our operating costs. some of our oem customers have adopted a subcontractor model that requires us to contract directly with companies, such as odms, that provide manufacturing and fulfillment services to our oem customers. because these subcontractors are generally not as well capitalized as our direct oem customers, this subcontractor model exposes us to increased credit risks. our agreements with our oem customers may not permit us to increase our product prices to alleviate this increased credit risk. additionally, as we attempt to expand our oem and distribution channel sales into emerging economies such as brazil, russia, india and china, the customers with the most success in these regions may have relatively short operating histories, making it more difficult for us to accurately assess the associated credit risks. any credit losses we may suffer as a result of these increased risks, or as a result of credit losses from any significant customer, especially in situations where there are term extensions under existing contracts with such customers, would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. our operating results fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from period to period due to many factors, which may result in a significant decline in our stock price. our quarterly operating results may be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a number of other factors including: weakness in demand for one or more product categories; the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major customers, loss of major customers; our product mix; reductions in the asps of our products and lower margins; excess output, capacity or inventory, resulting in lower asps, financial charges or impairments, or insufficient output, capacity or inventory, resulting in lost revenue opportunities; 31 table of contents inability to successfully transition to 3d nand or other technology developments, or other failure to reduce product costs to keep pace with reduction in asps; manufacturing delays or interruptions; delays in design wins or customer qualifications, acceptance by customers of competing products in lieu of our products; success of our partnerships and joint ventures, in particular the volume, timing and cost of wafer production at flash ventures, and our success in managing the relationships with our strategic partners; inability to realize the potential benefits of our acquisitions and the success of our integration efforts; ability to penetrate new markets for our storage solutions; variations in the cost of and lead times for components for our products, disruptions of our supply chain; limited availability of components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; seasonal and other fluctuations in demand often due to technological advances; increase in costs due to warranty claims; higher costs as a result of currency exchange rate fluctuations; and availability and rates of transportation. we often ship a high percentage of our total quarterly sales in the third month of the quarter, which makes it difficult for us to forecast our financial results before the end of the quarter. as a result of the above or other factors, our forecast of operating results for the quarter may differ materially from our actual financial results. if our results of operations fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, it could cause an immediate and significant decline in our stock price. we have made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting, and actual results may differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions. we have made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting. the highly technical nature of our products and the rapidly changing market conditions with which we deal means that actual results may differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions. these changes have impacted our financial results in the past and may continue to do so in the future. key estimates and assumptions for us include: price protection adjustments and other sales promotions and allowances on products sold to retailers, resellers and distributors; inventory adjustments for write-down of inventories to lower of cost or market value (net realizable value); testing of goodwill and other long-lived assets for impairment; accruals for product returns; accruals for litigation and other contingencies liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits; and provisional estimates related to tax reform. in addition, changes in existing accounting or taxation rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements or taxation practice could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 32 table of contents the market price of our common stock is volatile. the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. factors that may significantly affect the market price of our common stock include the following: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, including those resulting from the seasonality of our business; perceptions about our strategic relationships and joint ventures, access to supply of flash-based memory, new technologies and technology transitions; announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors, which may decrease the volume and profitability of sales of our existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence; new products introduced by us or our competitors; strategic actions by us or competitors, such as acquisitions and restructurings; periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price erosion resulting from competitive pressures or industry consolidation; developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights, and any litigation; proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments or anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us or our competitors; conditions and trends in the hard drive, solid-state storage, flash memory, computer, mobile, data and content management, storage and communication industries; contraction in our operating results or growth rates that are lower than our previous high growth-rate periods; failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates or changes in financial estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts relating specifically to us or the storage industry in general; announcements relating to dividends and share repurchases; and macroeconomic conditions that affect the market generally and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for our industry. in addition, the sale of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock, or the perception that these sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. further, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the stock prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the stock of public companies, including us. these broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of shares of our common stock. for example, expectations concerning general economic conditions may cause the stock market to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations from time to time that particularly affect the stock prices of many high technology companies. these fluctuations may be unrelated to the operating performance of the companies. securities class action lawsuits are often brought against companies after periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. a number of such suits have been filed against us in the past, and should any new lawsuits be filed, such matters could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources and management's attention. 33 table of contents our cash balances and investment portfolio are subject to various risks, any of which could adversely impact our financial position. given the international footprint of our business, we have both domestic and international cash balances and investments. we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, security types, and maturities. these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, political, sovereign and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events that affect global financial markets. a material part of our investment portfolio consists of investment grade corporate securities, bank deposits, asset backed securities and u.s. government and agency securities. if global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods of decline, or if there is a downgrade of the u.s. government credit rating due to an actual or threatened default on government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that our investments may experience an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results. a failure of any of these financial institutions in which deposits exceed federal deposit insurance corporation (fdic) limits could also have an adverse impact on our financial position. in addition, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to repay our indebtedness, fund acquisitions, pay dividends, or repurchase shares of our common stock, we may choose or be required to increase our borrowings, if available, or to repatriate funds to the u.s. at an additional tax cost. we must comply with regulations regarding the conversion and distribution of funds earned in the local currencies of various countries. if we cannot comply with these or other applicable regulations, we may face increased difficulties in using cash generated in these countries. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk disclosure about foreign currency risk although the majority of our transactions are in u.s. dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. we purchase short-term, foreign exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for product costs and operating expenses denominated in foreign currencies. the purpose of entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. the contract maturity dates do not exceed 12 months. we do not purchase foreign exchange contracts for speculative or trading purposes. for additional information, see part ii, item 8, note 4 , fair value measurements and investments and note 5 , derivative instruments and hedging activities , of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10 k. 53 table of contents as of june 29, 2018 , we had outstanding the foreign exchange contracts presented in the following table. the designated foreign exchange contracts are entered to protect the u.s. dollar value of our product cost and operating expenses. changes in fair values of the non-designated foreign exchange contracts are recognized in other income (expense), net and are largely offset by corresponding changes in the fair values of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. designated hedges (cash flow hedges) contract amount weighted-average contract rate (1) mark to market unrealized gain (loss) (in millions, except weighted-average contract rate) japanese yen $ 634 109.39 $ (3 ) malaysian ringgit 101 3.97 (2 ) philippine peso 48 52.69 (1 ) thai baht 162 31.48 (8 ) total designated forward contracts $ 945 $ (14 ) non-designated hedges contract amount weighted-average contract rate (1) unrealized gain (loss) (in millions, except weighted-average contract rate) british pound sterling $ 28 0.76 $ euro 76 0.86 japanese yen 2,921 108.20 42 malaysian ringgit 104 4.00 (1 ) philippine peso 80 53.11 thai baht 211 32.42 (4 ) total non-designated forward contracts $ 3,420 $ 37 (1) expressed in units of foreign currency per u.s. dollar. during 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , total net realized and unrealized transaction and foreign exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to our consolidated financial statements . notwithstanding our efforts to mitigate some foreign exchange risks, we do not hedge all of our foreign currency exposures, and there can be no assurance that our mitigating activities related to the exposures that we hedge will adequately protect us against risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. disclosure about other market risks variable interest rate risk borrowings under our revolving facility and term loan a-1 bear interest at a rate per annum, at our option, of either an adjusted london interbank offered rate ( libor ) (subject to a 0.0% floor) plus an applicable margin varying from 1.125% to 2.000% or a base rate plus an applicable margin varying from 0.125% to 1.000% , in each case depending on our corporate credit ratings. as of june 29, 2018 , the applicable margin based on our current credit ratings was 1.5% . borrowings under our u.s. term loan b-4 bear interest at a rate per annum, at our option, of either an adjusted libor (subject to a 0.0% floor) plus a margin of 1.75% or a base rate plus a margin of 0.75% . we have generally held a balance of fixed and variable rate debt. at june 29, 2018 , 70% of the par value of our debt was at variable rates. we entered into pay-fixed interest rate swaps, which effectively converts $1.00 billion of our term loans to fixed rates through may 2020 and an incremental $1.00 billion through april 2023. as of june 29, 2018 , we had $7.94 billion of variable rate debt. after giving effect to the $2.00 billion of interest rate swaps, we effectively had $5.94 billion of long-term debt subject to variations in interest rates and a one percent increase in the variable rate of interest would increase annual interest expense by $59 million . for additional information regarding our indebtedness and our interest rate swaps, see part ii, item 8, note 6 , debt , of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10 k . 54 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors our business, financial condition and operating results can be affected by a number of risks and uncertainties, whether currently known or unknown, any one or more of which could, directly or indirectly, cause our actual results of operations and financial condition to vary materially from past, or from anticipated future, results of operations and financial condition. the risks and uncertainties discussed below are not the only ones facing our business, but represent risks and uncertainties that we believe are material to us. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or the market price of our common stock. adverse global or regional conditions could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. a large portion of our revenue is derived from our international operations, and many of our products and components are produced overseas. as a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition depend significantly on global and regional conditions. adverse changes in global or regional economic conditions, including, but not limited to, volatility in the financial markets, tighter credit, slower growth in certain geographic regions, political uncertainty, other macroeconomic factors, and changes to policies, rules and regulations, could significantly harm demand for our products, increase credit and collectability risks, result in revenue reductions, increase manufacturing and operating costs or result in impairment charges or other expenses. our revenue and future growth are significantly dependent on the growth of international markets, and we may face difficulties in entering or maintaining international sales markets. we are subject to risks associated with our global manufacturing operations and global marketing and sales efforts, as well as risks associated with our utilization of and reliance on contract manufacturers, including: obtaining requisite governmental permits and approvals, compliance with foreign laws and regulations and changes in foreign laws and regulations; the need to comply with regulations on international business, including the foreign corrupt practices act, the united kingdom bribery act 2010, the anti-bribery laws of other countries and rules regarding conflict minerals; copyright levies or similar fees or taxes imposed in european and other countries; exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations; weaker protection of ip rights; trade restrictions, such as export controls, export bans, embargoes, sanctions, license and certification requirements (including on encryption technology), new or increased tariffs and fees and complex customs regulations; and difficulties in managing international operations, including appropriate internal controls. as a result of these risks, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. 12 table of contents we rely substantially on our business ventures with toshiba memory corporation ( tmc ) for the development and supply of flash-based memory, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. we depend on our ventures with tmc to develop and manufacture our flash-based memory. we partner with tmc on the development of flash-based technology, including future generations of 3d nand, as well as other non-volatile memory technology in support of flash ventures. flash ventures is subject to various risks that could harm the value of our investments, our revenue and costs, our future rate of spending, our technology plans and our future growth opportunities. substantially all of our flash-based memory is supplied by flash ventures, which limits our ability to respond to market demand and supply changes. a failure to accurately forecast demand could cause us to over-invest or under-invest in technology transitions or the expansion of flash ventures' capacity. over-investment by us or our competitors could result in excess supply, which could cause significant decreases in our product prices, significant excess, obsolete inventory or inventory write-downs or under-utilization charges, and the potential impairment of our investments in flash ventures. on the other hand, if we under-invest in flash ventures or otherwise grow or transition flash ventures' capacity more slowly than we expect or than the rest of the industry, we may not have enough supply of the right type of memory or at all to meet demand on a timely and cost effective basis and we may lose opportunities for revenue, gross margin and market share as a result. if our supply is limited, we may make strategic decisions with respect to the allocation of our supply among our products and customers, and these strategic allocation decisions may result in less favorable gross margin or damage certain customer relationships. we are contractually obligated to pay for 50% of the fixed costs of flash ventures regardless of whether we purchase any wafers from flash ventures. furthermore, purchase orders placed with flash ventures and under the foundry arrangements with tmc for up to three months are binding and cannot be canceled. therefore, once our purchase decisions have been made, our production costs for flash memory are fixed, and we may be unable to reduce costs to match any subsequent declines in pricing or demand, which would harm our gross margin. our limited ability to react to fluctuations in flash memory supply and demand makes our financial results particularly susceptible to variations from our forecasts and expectations. under the flash ventures agreements, we have limited power to unilaterally direct most of the activities that most significantly impact flash ventures' performance and we have limited ability to source or fabricate flash-based memory outside of flash ventures. lack of alignment with tmc with respect to flash ventures could adversely impact our ability to stay at the forefront of technological advancement and our investment in flash ventures and otherwise harm our business. misalignment could arise due to changes in tmc's strategic priorities and/or ownership, which has changed significantly recently and could continue to change. tmc's stakeholders may include, or have included in the past, flash and hdd competitors, customers, a private equity firm and a bank owned by the government of japan. tmc's ownership and capital structure could lead to delays in decision-making, disputes, or changes in strategic direction that could adversely impact flash ventures and/or adversely affect our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. there may exist conflicts of interest between tmc's stakeholders and flash ventures or us with respect to, among other things, protecting and growing flash ventures' business, ip and competitively sensitive confidential information. flash ventures requires significant investments by both tmc and us for technology transitions, including the transition to 3d nand, and capacity expansions. tmc's parent company, toshiba memory holdings corporation ( tmhc ), recently announced new financing in the amount of 1.2 trillion japanese yen. tmhc's financing agreements and/or its high level of debt could limit tmc's ability to timely fund or finance investments in flash ventures or our joint development efforts, as well as limit flash ventures' ability to enter into lease financings. to the extent that lease financings for flash ventures are not accessible on favorable terms or at all, more cash would be required to fund investments. if tmc does not or we do not provide sufficient resources, or have adequate access to credit, to timely fund investments in flash ventures, our investments could be delayed or reduced. delayed or reduced investment in manufacturing capacity or r&amp;d could harm flash ventures' competitiveness and/or our investment in flash ventures. in addition, tmhc's financing arrangements might be secured by tmc's equity interests in flash ventures, permitting the lenders to foreclose on those equity interests under certain circumstances. in may 2019, we entered into definitive agreements with tmc regarding a new 3d nand wafer fabrication facility in kitakami, iwate, japan, known as k1. under the k1 agreement, we agreed to, among other things, fund 50% of k1's initial production line. output from the initial production line, which is expected in the first half of calendar year 2020, could be delayed, reduced or otherwise fail to meet our expectations. as k1 is located at a new manufacturing site, k1 could be particularly susceptible to delays and other challenges in the production ramp and yields, qualification of wafers, shipment of samples to customers and customer approval process. further, although we intend to continue to jointly invest with tmc to ramp up manufacturing capacity at k1, there is no certainty as to when, and on what terms, we will do so. if and for so long as our share of the k1 capacity falls below a specified threshold, we will be responsible for bearing fixed costs associated with k1's operations at that threshold, which could adversely affect our financial results. 13 table of contents we participate in a highly competitive industry that is subject to declining average selling prices ( asps ), volatile demand, rapid technological change and industry consolidation, all of which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. demand for our devices, software and solutions that we offer to our customers, which we refer to in this item 1a as our products , depends in large part on the demand for systems (including personal computers ( pcs ) and mobile devices) manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems. the demand for systems has been volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand for our products in any given period. the prices of our products are influenced by, among other factors, the balance between supply and demand in the storage market, including the effects of new fab capacity, macroeconomic factors, business conditions, technology transitions and other actions taken by us or our competitors. the storage market has experienced volatile product life cycles, which can adversely affect our ability to recover the cost of product development, and periods of excess capacity, which can lead to liquidation of excess inventories, significant reductions in asps and adverse impacts on our revenue and gross margins. further, our asps and gross margins tend to decline when there is a shift in the mix of product sales, and sales of lower priced products increase relative to those of higher priced products. further, we face potential gross margin pressures resulting from our asps declining more rapidly than our cost of revenue. rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and profitability of sales of existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence. finally, the data storage industry has experienced consolidation over the past several years. further consolidation across the industry could enhance the capacity, abilities and resources and lower the cost structure of some of our competitors, causing us to be at a competitive disadvantage. these factors may result in significant shifts in market share among the industry's major participants, including a substantial decrease in our market share, all of which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. in addition, we compete based on our ability to offer our customers competitive solutions that provide the most current and desired products and service features. as we compete in new product areas, the overall complexity of our business may increase at an accelerated rate and may result in increases in r&amp;d expenses and substantial investments in manufacturing capability, technology enhancements and go-to-market capability. we must also qualify our products with customers through potentially lengthy testing processes, which may result in delayed, reduced or lost product sales. some of our competitors offer products and technologies that we do not offer and may be able to use their broader product and technology portfolio to win sales from us, and some of our customers may be developing storage solutions internally, which may reduce their demand for our products. we expect that competition will continue to be intense, and there is a risk that our competitors may be able to gain a product offering or cost structure advantage over us, which may result in a loss of business to us. further, some of our competitors may utilize certain pricing strategies, including offering products at prices at or below cost, that we may be unable to competitively match. we may also have difficulty effectively competing with manufacturers benefitting from governmental investments. if we do not properly manage technology transitions and product development and introduction, our competitiveness and operating results may be negatively affected. the storage markets in which we offer our products continuously undergo technology transitions that we must anticipate and adapt our existing products or develop new products to address in a timely manner. if we fail to implement new technologies successfully, if we are slower than our competitors at implementing new technologies, or if our technology transitions or product development are more costly to complete than anticipated, we may not be able to offer products our customers desire and our costs may not remain competitive, which would harm revenues, our gross margin and operating results. in addition, the success of our technology transitions and product development and introduction depends on a number of other factors, including: r&amp;d expenses and results; difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp; market acceptance/qualification; effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand; 14 table of contents the vertical integration of some of our products, which may result in more capital expenditures and greater fixed costs than if we were not vertically integrated; our ability to cost effectively respond to customer requests for new products or features and software associated with our products; our ability to increase our software development capability; and the effectiveness of our go-to-market capability in selling new products. moving to new technologies and products may require us to align to, and build, a new supply base. our success in new product areas may be dependent in part on our ability to develop close relationships with new suppliers and on our ability to enter into favorable supply agreements. where this cannot be done, our business and operations may be adversely affected. in addition, if our customers choose to delay transition to new technologies, if demand for the products that we develop is lower than expected or if the supporting technologies to implement these new technologies are not available, we may be unable to achieve the cost structure required to support our profit objectives or may be unable to grow or maintain our market position. additionally, new technologies and products could substitute for or replace our current technologies and products and make them obsolete. we also develop products to meet certain industry and technical standards, which may change. we could incur substantial costs as a result of shifts in technology and standards, such as adopting new standards or investing in different capital equipment or manufacturing processes to remain competitive. for additional technology transition risks related to flash ventures, see the risk factor entitled we rely substantially on our business ventures with toshiba memory corporation ( tmc ) for the development and supply of flash-based memory, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. our strategic relationships subject us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have entered into strategic relationships with various partners for future product development, sales growth and the supply of technologies, components, equipment and materials for use in our product design and manufacturing, including our partnership with tmc for flash-based memory development and manufacturing. these strategic relationships are subject to various risks that could adversely affect the value of our investments and our results of operations and financial condition. these risks include, but are not limited to, the following: our interests could diverge from our partners' interests or we may not agree with co-venturers on ongoing activities, technology transitions or on the amount, timing or nature of further investments in the relationship; we may experience difficulties and delays in product and technology development at, ramping production at, and transferring technology to, our business ventures; our control over the operations of our business ventures is limited; due to financial constraints, our co-venturers may be unable to meet their commitments to us or may pose credit risks for our transactions with them; due to differing business models, financial constraints or long-term business goals, our partners may decide not to join us in funding capital investment by our business ventures, which may result in higher levels of cash expenditures by us or prevent us from proceeding in the investment; we may lose the rights to technology or products being developed by the strategic relationship, including if any of our co-venturers is acquired by another company or otherwise transfers its interest in the business venture, files for bankruptcy or experiences financial or other losses; a bankruptcy event involving a co-venturer could result in the early termination or adverse modification of the business venture or agreements governing the business venture; we may experience difficulties or delays in collecting amounts due to us from our co-venturers; 15 table of contents the terms of our arrangements may turn out to be unfavorable; and changes in tax, legal or regulatory requirements may necessitate changes in the agreements with our co-venturers. if our strategic relationships are unsuccessful or there are unanticipated changes in, or termination of, our strategic relationships, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. we are dependent on a limited number of qualified suppliers who provide critical materials or components, and a disruption in our supply chain, including a shortage in supply or a supplier's failure to support us in a timely manner with goods or services at a quality level and cost acceptable to us, or supplier consolidation, could adversely affect our margins, revenues and operating results . we depend on an external supply base for technologies, software (including firmware), preamps, controllers, dram, components, equipment and materials for use in our product design and manufacturing. we also depend on suppliers for a portion of our wafer testing, chip assembly, product assembly and product testing, and on service suppliers for providing technical support for our products. in addition, we use logistics partners to manage our just-in-time hubs, distribution centers and freight from suppliers to our factories and from our factories to our customers throughout the world. many of the components and much of the equipment we acquire must be specifically designed to be compatible for use in our products or for developing and manufacturing our future products, and are only available from a limited number of suppliers, some of whom are our sole-source suppliers. we are therefore dependent on these suppliers to be able and willing to dedicate adequate engineering resources to develop components that can be successfully integrated into our products, technology and equipment. from time to time, our suppliers have experienced difficulty meeting our requirements. if we are unable to purchase sufficient quantities from our current suppliers or qualify and engage additional suppliers, or if we cannot purchase materials at a reasonable price, we may not be able to meet demand for our products. trade restrictions, including tariffs, quotas and embargoes, demand from other high volume industries for materials or components used in our products or shortages in other components and materials used in our customers' products could result in increased costs to us or decreased demand for our products, which could negatively impact our operating results. delays or cost increases experienced by our suppliers in developing or sourcing materials and components for use in our products or incompatibility or quality issues relating to our products, could also harm our financial results as well as business relationships with our customers. we do not have long-term contracts with some of our existing suppliers, nor do we always have guaranteed manufacturing capacity with our suppliers and, therefore, we cannot guarantee that they will devote sufficient resources or capacity to manufacturing our products. any significant problems that occur at our suppliers, or their failure to perform at the level we expect, could lead to product shortages or quality assurance problems, either of which would harm our operating results and financial condition. when we do have contractual commitments with component suppliers in an effort to increase and stabilize the supply of those components, those commitments may require us to buy a substantial number of components from the supplier or make significant cash advances to the supplier; however, these commitments may not result in a satisfactory increase or stabilization of the supply of such components and may cause us to have inadequate or excess component inventory, which could increase our operating costs and adversely affect our operating results. in addition, our supply base has experienced industry consolidation. our suppliers may be acquired by our competitors, consolidate, decide to exit the industry, or redirect their investments and increase costs to us, each of which may have an adverse effect on our business and operations. in addition, some of our suppliers have experienced a decline in financial performance. where we rely on a limited number of suppliers or a single supplier, the risk of supplier loss due to industry consolidation or a decline in financial performance is enhanced. some of our suppliers may also be competitors in other areas of our business, which could lead to difficulties in price negotiations or meeting our supply requirements. any disruption in our supply chain could reduce our revenue and adversely impact our financial results. 16 table of contents our operations, and those of certain of our suppliers and customers, are concentrated in large, purpose-built facilities, subjecting us to substantial risk of damage or loss if operations at any of these facilities are disrupted. as a result of our cost structure and strategy of vertical integration, we conduct our operations at large, high volume, purpose-built facilities in california and throughout asia. the facilities of many of our customers, our suppliers and our customers' suppliers are also concentrated in certain geographic locations throughout asia and elsewhere. a fire, flood, earthquake, tsunami or other natural disaster, condition or event such as a power outage, terrorist attack, political instability, civil unrest, localized labor unrest or other employment issues, or a localized health risk that adversely affects any of these facilities, the employees, the technology infrastructure or logistics operators at these facilities, would significantly affect our ability to manufacture or sell our products and source components, which would result in a substantial loss of sales and revenue and a substantial harm to our operating results. in addition, the geographic concentration of our manufacturing sites could exacerbate the negative impacts resulting from any of these problems. a significant event that impacts any of our manufacturing sites, or the sites of our customers or suppliers, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture or sell our products, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. we may incur losses beyond the limits of, or outside the scope of, the coverage of our insurance policies. there can be no assurance that in the future we will be able to maintain existing insurance coverage or that premiums will not increase substantially. due to market availability, pricing or other reasons, we may elect not to purchase insurance coverage or to purchase only limited coverage. we maintain limited insurance coverage and, in some cases, no coverage at all, for natural disasters and environmental damages, as these types of insurance are sometimes not available or available only at a prohibitive cost. we depend upon tmc to obtain and maintain sufficient property, business interruption and other insurance for flash ventures. if tmc fails to do so, we could suffer significant unreimbursable losses, and such failure could also cause flash ventures to breach various financing covenants. we experience sales seasonality and cyclicality, which could cause our operating results to fluctuate. in addition, accurately forecasting demand has become more difficult, which could adversely affect our business and financial results or operating efficiencies. sales of computer systems, mobile devices, storage subsystems, gaming consoles and consumer electronics tend to be seasonal and subject to supply-demand cycles, and therefore we expect to continue to experience seasonality and cyclicality in our business as we respond to variations in supply dynamics and customer demand. changes in seasonal and cyclical supply and demand patterns have made it, and could continue to make it, more difficult for us to forecast demand, especially as a result of the current macroeconomic environment. changes in the product or channel mix of our business can also impact seasonal and cyclical patterns, adding complexity in forecasting demand. seasonality and cyclicality also may lead to higher volatility in our stock price. it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which seasonality and cyclicality may affect our stock price or business in future periods because of the rate and unpredictability of product transitions, actions by competitors, new product introductions and macroeconomic conditions. the variety and volume of products we manufacture are based in part on accurately forecasting market and customer demand for our products. accurately forecasting demand has also become increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers due to volatility in global economic conditions and industry consolidation, resulting in less availability of historical market data for certain product segments. further, for many of our oems utilizing just-in-time inventory, we do not generally require firm order commitments and instead receive a periodic forecast of requirements, which may prove to be inaccurate. in addition, because our products are designed to be largely interchangeable with competitors' products, our demand forecasts may be impacted significantly by the strategic actions of our competitors. as forecasting demand becomes more difficult, the risk that our forecasts are not in line with demand increases. if our forecasts exceed actual market demand, we could experience periods of product oversupply, excess inventory, and price decreases, which could impact our sales, asps and gross margin, thereby adversely affecting our operating results and our financial condition. if market demand increases significantly beyond our forecasts or beyond our ability to add manufacturing capacity, then we may not be able to satisfy customer product needs, possibly resulting in a loss of market share if our competitors are able to meet customer demands. in addition, some of our components have long lead-times, requiring us to place orders several months in advance of anticipated demand. such long lead-times increase the risk of excess inventory or loss of sales in the event our forecasts vary substantially from actual demand. 17 table of contents the loss of our key management, staff and skilled employees, the inability to hire and integrate new employees or decisions to realign our business could negatively impact our business prospects. our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key management, staff and skilled employees, many of whom would be extremely difficult to replace. global competition for skilled employees in the technology related industry is intense, and our business success becomes increasingly dependent on our ability to retain our key staff and skilled employees, to implement succession plans for our key management and staff, to attract, integrate and retain new skilled employees, including employees from acquisitions, and to make decisions to realign our business to take advantage of efficiencies or reduce redundancies. additionally, because a substantial portion of our key employees' compensation is placed at risk and linked to the performance of our business, including through equity compensation, when our operating results are negatively impacted, we may be at a competitive disadvantage for retaining and hiring key management, staff and skilled employees versus other companies that may pay a relatively higher portion of base compensation. if we are unable to hire and retain key management, staff or skilled employees, our operating results would likely be harmed. if we fail to identify, manage, complete and integrate acquisitions, investment opportunities or other significant transactions, which are a key part of our growth strategy, it may adversely affect our future results. we seek to be an industry-leading developer, manufacturer and provider of innovative storage solutions, balancing our core hard drive and flash memory business with growing investments in newer areas that we believe will provide us with higher growth opportunities. acquisitions of, investment opportunities in, or other significant transactions with companies that are complementary to our business are a key part of our overall business strategy. in order to pursue this part of our growth strategy successfully, we must continue to identify attractive acquisition or investment opportunities, successfully complete the transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as integration of the acquired company or employees. we may not be able to continue to identify or complete appealing acquisition or investment opportunities given the intense competition for these transactions. even if we identify and complete suitable corporate transactions, we may not be able to successfully address any integration challenges in a timely manner, or at all. there may be difficulties with implementing new systems and processes or with integrating systems and processes of companies with complex operations, which could result in inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies and may increase the risk that our internal controls are found to be ineffective. failing to successfully integrate or realign our business to take advantage of efficiencies or reduce redundancies of an acquisition may result in not realizing all or any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. in addition, failing to achieve the financial model projections for an acquisition or changes in technology development and related roadmaps following an acquisition may result in the incurrence of impairment charges and other expenses, both of which could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. acquisitions and investments may also result in the issuance of equity securities that may be dilutive to our shareholders and the issuance of additional indebtedness that would put additional pressure on liquidity. furthermore, we may agree to provide continuing service obligations or enter into other agreements in order to obtain certain regulatory approvals of our corporate transactions, and failure to satisfy these additional obligations could result in our failing to obtain regulatory approvals or the imposition of additional obligations on us, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, new legislation or additional regulations may affect or impair our ability to invest with or in certain other countries or require us to obtain regulatory approvals to do so, including investments in joint ventures, minority investments and outbound technology transfers to certain countries. any cost saving initiatives, restructurings or divestitures that we undertake may result in disruptions to our operations and may not deliver the results we expect, which may adversely affect our business. from time to time, we engage in cost saving initiatives, restructurings and divestitures that may result in workforce reduction and consolidation of our manufacturing or other facilities. as a result of these actions, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge, disruptions to our operations and inefficiency during transitional periods. these actions could also impact employee retention. in addition, we cannot be sure that these actions will be as successful in reducing our overall expenses as we expect, that additional costs will not offset any such reductions or consolidations or that we do not forego future business opportunities as a result of these actions. if our operating costs are higher than we expect or if we do not maintain adequate control of our costs and expenses, our operating results could be adversely affected. our high level of debt may adversely impact our liquidity, restrict our operations and ability to respond to business opportunities, and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. as of june 28, 2019 , our total indebtedness was $10.69 billion in aggregate principal, and we had $2.25 billion of additional borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility. 18 table of contents our high level of debt could have significant consequences, which include, but are not limited to, the following: limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes; imposing financial and other restrictive covenants on our operations, including limiting our ability to (i) declare or pay dividends or repurchase shares of our common stock; (ii) purchase assets, make investments, complete acquisitions, consolidate or merge with or into, or sell all or substantially all of our assets to, another person; (iii) dispose of assets; (iv) incur liens; and (v) enter into transactions with affiliates; and making us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limiting our ability to withstand competitive pressures or take advantage of new opportunities to grow our business. our ability to meet the debt service obligations and to comply with our debt covenants depends on our cash flows and financial performance, which are affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. failure to meet our debt service obligations or comply with our debt covenants could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. we may be unable to cure, or obtain a waiver of, an event of default or otherwise amend our debt agreements to prevent an event of default thereunder on terms acceptable to us or at all. in that event, the debt holders could accelerate the related debt, which may result in the cross-acceleration or cross-default of other debt, leases or other obligations. we may not have sufficient funds available to repay accelerated indebtedness, and we may be required to refinance all or part of our debt, sell important strategic assets at unfavorable prices, incur additional indebtedness or issue common stock or other equity securities, which we may be unable to do on terms acceptable to us, in amounts sufficient to meet our needs or at all. our inability to service our debt obligations or refinance our debt could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our secured indebtedness, the holder of such debt could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. refinancing our indebtedness may also require us to expense previous debt issuance costs or to incur new debt issuance costs. as our bank debt contains a variable interest rate component based on our corporate credit ratings, a decline in our ratings could result in increased interest rates and debt service obligations. in addition, our ratings impact the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, our cost of capital. our ratings reflect the opinions of the ratings agencies as to our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations. there can be no assurance that we will achieve a particular rating or maintain a particular rating in the future. our credit agreement uses libor as a reference rate for our term loans and revolving credit facility, such that the applicable interest rate may, at our option, be calculated based on libor. in july 2017, the u.k.'s financial conduct authority, which regulates libor, announced that it intends to phase out libor by the end of 2021. in april 2018, the federal reserve bank of new york began publishing a secured overnight funding rate, which is intended to replace u.s. dollar libor. plans for alternative reference rates for other currencies have also been announced. at this time, we cannot predict how markets will respond to these proposed alternative rates or the effect of any changes to libor or the discontinuation of libor. if libor is no longer available or if our lenders have increased costs due to changes in libor, we may experience potential increases in interest rates on our variable rate debt, which could adversely impact our interest expense, results of operations and cash flows. we may from time to time seek to further refinance our substantial indebtedness by issuing additional shares of common stock, which may dilute our existing shareholders, reduce the value of our common stock, or both. 19 table of contents tax matters may materially affect our financial position and results of operations. changes in tax laws in the united states, the european union and around the globe have impacted and will continue to impact our effective worldwide tax rate, which may materially affect our financial position and results of operations. further, organizations such as the organization for economic cooperation and development, have published action plans that, if adopted by countries where we do business, could increase our tax obligations in these countries. due to the large scale of our u.s. and international business activities, many of these enacted and proposed changes to the taxation of our activities could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. additionally, portions of our operations are subject to a reduced tax rate or are free of tax under various tax holidays that expire in whole or in part from time to time, or may be terminated if certain conditions are not met. although many of these holidays may be extended when certain conditions are met, we may not be able to meet such conditions. if the tax holidays are not extended, or if we fail to satisfy the conditions of the reduced tax rate, then our effective tax rate could increase in the future. our determination of our tax liability in the u.s. and other jurisdictions is subject to review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities. for example, as disclosed in part ii, item 8, note 13 , income tax expense , of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k, we are under examination by the internal revenue service for certain fiscal years and in connection with that examination, we received statutory notices of deficiency seeking certain adjustments to income and have filed petitions with the u.s. tax court. although we believe our tax positions are properly supported, the final timing and resolution of any tax examinations are subject to significant uncertainty and could result in litigation or the payment of significant amounts to the applicable tax authority in order to resolve examination of our tax positions, which could result in an increase or decrease of our current estimate of unrecognized tax benefits and may negatively impact our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. sales in the distribution channel and to the retail market are important to our business, and if we fail to respond to demand changes within these markets, or maintain and grow our applicable market share, our operating results could suffer. our distribution customers typically sell to small computer manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators and other resellers. we face significant competition in this channel as a result of limited product qualification programs and a significant focus on price and availability of product. in addition, the pc market is experiencing a shift to notebook and other mobile devices and, as a result, more computing devices are being delivered to the market as complete systems, which could weaken the distribution market. if we fail to respond to changes in demand in the distribution market, our operating results could suffer. additionally, if the distribution market weakens as a result of a slowing pc growth rate, technology transitions or a significant change in consumer buying preference, or if we experience significant price declines due to demand changes in the distribution channel, our operating results would be adversely affected. negative changes in the credit-worthiness or the ability to access credit, or the bankruptcy or shutdown of any of our significant retail or distribution partners would harm our revenue and our ability to collect outstanding receivable balances. a significant portion of our sales is also made through retailers. our success in the retail market depends in large part on our ability to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation and to expand into and gain market acceptance of our products in multiple retail market channels. particularly in the retail market, adverse publicity, whether or not justified, or allegations of product or service quality issues, even if false or unfounded, could damage our reputation and cause our customers to choose products offered by our competitors. if customers no longer maintain a preference for our product brands or if our retailers are not successful in selling our products, our operating results may be adversely affected. loss of market share with or by a key customer, or consolidation among our customer base, could harm our operating results. during the fiscal year ended june 28, 2019 , 45% of our revenue came from sales to our top 10 customers. these customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial demands on us, including demands on product pricing and on contractual terms, often resulting in the allocation of risk to us as the supplier. our ability to maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is essential to our future performance. we have experienced and may in the future experience events such as the loss of a key customer, prohibition or restriction of sales to a key customer by law, regulation or other government action, reductions in orders of our products by a key customer, customer requirements to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs or the acquisition of a key customer by one of our competitors. these events would likely harm our operating results and financial condition. 20 table of contents additionally, if there is consolidation among our customer base, our customers may be able to command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. consolidation among our customer base may also lead to reduced demand for our products, increased customer pressure on our prices, replacement of our products by the combined entity with those of our competitors and cancellations of orders, each of which could harm our operating results. also, the storage ecosystem is constantly evolving, and our traditional customer base is changing. fewer companies now hold greater market share for certain applications and services, such as mobile, social media, shopping and streaming media. as a result, the competitive landscape is changing, giving these companies increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. in addition, the changes in our evolving customer base create new selling and distribution patterns to which we must adapt. to remain competitive, we must respond to these changes by ensuring we have proper scale in this evolving market, as well as offer products that meet the technological requirements of this customer base at competitive pricing points. to the extent we are not successful in adequately responding to these changes, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. our operating results fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from period to period due to many factors, which may result in a significant decline in our stock price. our quarterly operating results may be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a number of other factors including: weakness in demand for one or more product categories; the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major customers or loss of major customers; our product mix; reductions in the asps of our products and lower margins; excess output, capacity or inventory, resulting in lower asps, financial charges or impairments, or insufficient output, capacity or inventory, resulting in lost revenue opportunities; inability to successfully implement technology transitions or other technology developments, or other failure to reduce product costs to keep pace with reduction in asps; manufacturing delays or interruptions; delays in design wins or customer qualifications, acceptance by customers of competing products in lieu of our products; variations in the cost of and lead times for components for our products, disruptions of our supply chain; increase in costs due to warranty claims; and higher costs as a result of currency exchange rate fluctuations. we often ship a high percentage of our total quarterly sales in the third month of the quarter, which makes it difficult for us to forecast our financial results before the end of the quarter. as a result of the above or other factors, our forecast of operating results for the quarter may differ materially from our actual financial results. if our results of operations fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, it could cause an immediate and significant decline in our stock price. 21 table of contents if our technology infrastructure, systems or products are compromised, damaged or interrupted by cyber attacks, data security breaches, other security problems, design defects or sustain system failures, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. we experience cyber attacks of varying degrees on our technology infrastructure and systems and, as a result, unauthorized parties have obtained in the past, and may in the future obtain, access to our computer systems and networks, including cloud-based platforms. the technology infrastructure and systems of our suppliers, vendors, service providers, cloud solution providers and partners have in the past experienced and may in the future experience such attacks. cyber attacks can include computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, worms, and other malicious software programs or other attacks, covert introduction of malware to computers and networks, impersonation of authorized users, and efforts to discover and exploit any design flaws, bugs, security vulnerabilities or security weaknesses, as well as intentional or unintentional acts by employees or other insiders with access privileges, intentional acts of vandalism or fraud by third parties and sabotage. in some instances, efforts to correct vulnerabilities or prevent attacks may reduce the performance of our computer systems and networks, which could negatively impact our business. we believe cyber attack attempts are increasing in number and that cyber attackers are developing increasingly sophisticated systems and means to not only attack systems, but also to evade detection or to obscure their activities. our products are also targets for cyber attacks, including those products utilized in cloud-based environments as well as our cloud service offerings. while some of our products contain encryption or security algorithms to protect third-party content or user-generated data stored on our products, these products could still be hacked or the encryption schemes could be compromised, breached, or circumvented by motivated and sophisticated attackers. further, our products contain sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that may contain security problems, security vulnerabilities, or defects in design or manufacture, including bugs and other problems that could interfere with the intended operation of our products. to the extent our products are hacked or the encryption schemes are compromised or breached, this could harm our business by requiring us to employ additional resources to fix the errors or defects, exposing us to litigation and indemnification claims and hurting our reputation. if efforts to breach our infrastructure, systems or products are successful or we are unable to protect against these risks, we could suffer interruptions, delays, or cessation of operations of our systems, and loss or misuse of proprietary or confidential information, ip, or sensitive or personal information. breaches of our infrastructure, systems or products could also cause our customers and other affected third parties to suffer loss or misuse of proprietary or confidential information, ip, or sensitive or personal information, and could harm our relationships with customers and other third parties. as a result, we could experience additional costs, indemnification claims, litigation, and damage to our brand and reputation. all of these consequences could harm our reputation and our business and materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations relating to the collection, use, sharing, and security of third-party data including personal data, and our failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could subject us to proceedings by governmental entities or others and cause us to incur penalties, significant legal liability, or loss of customers, loss of revenue, and reputational harm . we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations relating to the collection, use, and security of third-party data including data that relates to or identifies an individual person. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, and among us, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations. our possession and use of third-party data, including personal data and employee data in conducting our business, subjects us to legal and regulatory burdens that may require us to notify vendors, customers or employees or other parties with which we have commercial relations of a data security breach and to respond to regulatory inquiries and to enforcement proceedings. global privacy and data protection legislation, enforcement, and policy activity in this area are rapidly expanding and evolving, and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. compliance requirements and even our inadvertent failure to comply with applicable laws may cause us to incur substantial costs, subject us to proceedings by governmental entities or others, and cause us to incur penalties or other significant legal liability, or lead us to change our business practices. 22 table of contents we are subject to risks related to product defects, which could result in product recalls or epidemic failures and could subject us to warranty claims in excess of our warranty provisions or which are greater than anticipated, litigation or indemnification claims. we warrant the majority of our products for periods of one to five years. we test our products in our manufacturing facilities through a variety of means. however, our testing may fail to reveal defects in our products that may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market. in addition, our products may be used in a manner that is not intended or anticipated by us, resulting in potential liability. accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will occur, including as a result of third-party components or applications that we incorporate in our products, which could require a product recall. product recalls can be expensive to implement. as part of a product recall, we may be required or choose to replace the defective product. moreover, there is a risk that product defects may trigger an epidemic failure clause in a customer agreement. if an epidemic failure occurs, we may be required to replace or refund the value of the defective product and to cover certain other costs associated with the consequences of the epidemic failure. in addition, product defects, product recalls or epidemic failures may cause damage to our reputation or customer relationships, lost revenue, indemnification for a recall of our customers' products, warranty claims, litigation or loss of market share with our customers, including our oem and original design manufacturers ( odm ) customers. our business liability insurance may be inadequate or future coverage may be unavailable on acceptable terms, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. our standard warranties contain limits on damages and exclusions of liability for consequential damages and for misuse, improper installation, alteration, accident or mishandling while in the possession of someone other than us. we record an accrual for estimated warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. we may incur additional expenses if our warranty provision do not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues related to defects in our products, whether as a result of a product recall, epidemic failure or otherwise. if these additional expenses are significant, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. we are subject to state, federal and international legal and regulatory requirements, such as environmental, labor, trade, health, safety, anti-corruption and tax regulations, customers' standards of corporate citizenship, and industry and coalition standards, such as those established by the responsible business alliance ( rba ), and compliance with those requirements could cause an increase in our operating costs and failure to comply may harm our business. we are subject to, and may become subject to additional, state, federal and international laws and regulations governing our environmental, labor, trade, health, safety, anti-corruption and tax practices. these laws and regulations, particularly those applicable to our international operations, are or may be complex, extensive and subject to change. we will need to ensure that we and our suppliers, customers and partners timely comply with such laws and regulations, which may result in an increase in our operating costs. legislation has been, and may in the future be, enacted in locations where we manufacture or sell our products, which could impair our ability to conduct business in certain jurisdictions or with certain customers and harm our operating results. in addition, climate change and financial reform legislation is a significant topic of discussion and has generated and may continue to generate federal, international or other regulatory responses in the near future. if we or our suppliers, customers or partners fail to timely comply with applicable legislation, certain customers may refuse to purchase our products or we may face increased operating costs as a result of taxes, fines or penalties, or legal liability and reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. in connection with our compliance with environmental laws and regulations, as well as our compliance with industry and coalition environmental initiatives, such as those established by the rba, the standards of business conduct required by some of our customers, and our commitment to sound corporate citizenship in all aspects of our business, we could incur substantial compliance and operating costs and be subject to disruptions to our operations and logistics. in addition, if we or our suppliers, customers or partners were found to be in violation of these laws or noncompliant with these initiatives or standards of conduct, we could be subject to governmental fines, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation and corporate brand, which could cause our financial condition and operating results to suffer. 23 table of contents we and certain of our officers are at times involved in litigation, investigations and governmental proceedings, which may be costly, may divert the efforts of our key personnel and could result in adverse court rulings, fines or penalties, which could materially harm our business. we are involved in litigation, including antitrust and commercial matters, putative securities class action suits and other actions. we are the plaintiff in some of these actions and the defendant in others. some of the actions seek injunctive relief, including injunctions against the sale of our products, and substantial monetary damages, which if granted or awarded, could materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results. from time to time, we may also be the subject of inquiries, requests for information, investigations and actions by government and regulatory agencies regarding our businesses. any such matters could result in material adverse consequences to our results of operations, financial condition or ability to conduct our business, including fines, penalties or restrictions on our business activities. litigation is subject to inherent risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. in the event of an adverse outcome in any litigation, investigation or governmental proceeding, we could be required to pay substantial damages, fines or penalties and cease certain practices or activities, including the manufacture, use and sale of products. with or without merit, such matters can be complex, can extend for a protracted period of time, can be very expensive and the expense can be unpredictable. litigation initiated by us could also result in counter-claims against us, which could increase the costs associated with the litigation and result in our payment of damages or other judgments against us. in addition, litigation, investigations or governmental proceedings and any related publicity may divert the efforts and attention of some of our key personnel and may also harm the market prices of our securities. we may be obligated to indemnify our current or former directors or employees, or former directors or employees of companies that we have acquired, in connection with litigation, investigations or governmental proceedings. these liabilities could be substantial and may include, among other things: the costs of defending lawsuits against these individuals; the cost of defending shareholder derivative suits; the cost of governmental, law enforcement or regulatory investigations or proceedings; civil or criminal fines and penalties; legal and other expenses; and expenses associated with the remedial measures, if any, which may be imposed. the nature of our industry and its reliance on ip and other proprietary information subjects us and our suppliers, customers and partners to the risk of significant litigation. the data storage industry has been characterized by significant litigation. this includes litigation relating to patent and other ip rights, product liability claims and other types of litigation. we have historically been involved in frequent disputes regarding patent and other ip rights, and we have in the past received, and we may in the future receive, communications from third parties asserting that certain of our products, processes or technologies infringe upon their patent rights, copyrights, trademark rights or other ip rights. we may also receive claims of potential infringement if we attempt to license ip to others. ip risks increase when we enter into new markets where we have little or no ip protection as a defense against litigation. the complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of ip litigation increase the ip risks we face. litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. moreover, the results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may result in adverse rulings or decisions. we may be subject to injunctions, enter into settlements or be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. if we incorporate third-party technology into our products or if claims or actions are asserted against us for alleged infringement of the ip of others, we may be required to obtain a license or cross-license, modify our existing technology or design a new non-infringing technology. such licenses or design modifications can be extremely costly. we evaluate notices of alleged patent infringement and notices of patents from patent holders that we receive from time to time. we may decide to settle a claim or action against us, which settlement could be costly. we may also be liable for any past infringement. if there is an adverse ruling against us in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued barring production or sale of any infringing product. it could also result in a damage award equal to a reasonable royalty or lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement, treble damages. any of these results would increase our costs and harm our operating results. in addition, our suppliers, customers and partners are subject to similar risks of litigation, and a material, adverse ruling against a supplier, customer or partner could negatively impact our business. moreover, from time to time, we agree to indemnify certain of our suppliers and customers for alleged ip infringement. the scope of such indemnity varies but may include indemnification for direct and consequential damages and expenses, including attorneys' fees. we may be engaged in litigation as a result of these indemnification obligations. third party claims for patent infringement are excluded from coverage under our insurance policies. a future obligation to indemnify our customers or suppliers may harm our business, financial condition and operating results. 24 table of contents our reliance on ip and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients of our business could be copied by competitors. our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary nature of our technology, including non-patentable ip such as our process technology. we primarily rely on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. there can be no assurance that our existing patents will continue to be held valid, if challenged, or that they will have sufficient scope or strength to protect us. it is also possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose, illegally or otherwise, our proprietary technologies and processes, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. if a competitor is able to reproduce or otherwise capitalize on our technology despite the safeguards we have in place, it may be difficult, expensive or impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. there are entities whom we believe may infringe our ip. enforcement of our rights often requires litigation. if we bring a patent infringement action and are not successful, our competitors would be able to use similar technology to compete with us. moreover, the defendant in such an action may successfully countersue us for infringement of their patents or assert a counterclaim that our patents are invalid or unenforceable. also, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our ip to the same extent as do u.s. laws. in addition to patent protection of ip rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. we rely upon employee, consultant and vendor non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. however, any of our registered or unregistered ip rights may be challenged or exploited by others in the industry, which could harm our operating results. the success of our branded products depends in part on the positive image that consumers have of our brands. we believe the popularity of our brands makes them a target of counterfeiting or imitation, with third parties attempting to pass off counterfeit products as our products. any occurrence of counterfeiting, imitation or confusion with our brands could adversely affect our reputation and impair the value of our brands, which in turn could negatively impact sales of our branded products, our share and our gross margin, as well as increase our administrative costs related to brand protection and counterfeit detection and prosecution. flash ventures' equipment lease agreements contain covenants and other cancellation events, and cancellation of the leases would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. flash ventures sells to and leases back a portion of its equipment from a consortium of financial institutions. most of the lease obligations are guaranteed 50% by us and 50% by tmc. some of the lease obligations are guaranteed in full by us. as of june 28, 2019 , the portion of outstanding obligations covered by our guarantees totaled approximately $1.58 billion , based upon the japanese yen to u.s. dollar exchange rate at june 28, 2019 . the leases are subject to customary covenants and cancellation events that relate to flash ventures and each of the guarantors. cancellation events include, among other things, an assignment of all or a substantial part of a guarantor's business and acceleration of other monetary debts of flash ventures or a guarantor above a specified threshold. if a cancellation event were to occur, flash ventures would be required to negotiate a resolution with the other parties to the lease transactions to avoid cancellation and acceleration of the lease obligations. such resolution could include, among other things, supplementary security to be supplied by us, increased interest rates or waiver fees. if a resolution is not reached, we may be required to pay all of the outstanding lease obligations covered by our guarantees, which would significantly reduce our cash position and may force us to seek additional financing, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. any decisions to reduce or discontinue paying cash dividends to our shareholders or to reduce or discontinue repurchases of shares of our common stock pursuant to our previously announced stock repurchase program could cause the market price for our common stock to decline. we may modify, suspend or cancel our cash dividend policy in any manner and at any time. in addition, we may start, stop or vary repurchases of shares of our common stock as we deem appropriate and as market conditions allow. any reduction or discontinuance by us of the payment of quarterly cash dividends or the repurchases of our common stock pursuant to our stock repurchase program could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. moreover, in the event our payment of quarterly cash dividends or repurchases of shares of our common stock are reduced or discontinued, our failure or inability to resume paying cash dividends or repurchasing shares of our common stock at historical levels could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. 25 table of contents fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations may negatively affect our operating results. because we manufacture and sell our products abroad, our revenue, cost of revenue, margins, operating costs and cash flows are impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. if the u.s. dollar exhibits sustained weakness against most foreign currencies, the u.s. dollar equivalents of unhedged manufacturing costs could increase because a significant portion of our production costs are foreign-currency denominated. conversely, there would not be an offsetting impact to revenues since revenues are substantially u.s. dollar denominated. additionally, we negotiate and procure some of our component requirements in u.s. dollars from non-u.s. based vendors. if the u.s. dollar weakens against other foreign currencies, some of our component suppliers may increase the price they charge for their components in order to maintain an equivalent profit margin. in addition, our purchases of flash-based memory from flash ventures and our investment in flash ventures are denominated in japanese yen. if the japanese yen appreciates against the u.s. dollar, our cost of purchasing flash-based memory wafers and the cost to us of future capital funding of flash ventures would increase. if any of these events occur, they could have a negative impact on our operating results. prices for our products are substantially u.s. dollar denominated, even when sold to customers that are located outside the u.s. therefore, as a substantial portion of our sales are from countries outside the u.s., fluctuations in currency exchanges rates, most notably the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against other foreign currencies, contribute to variations in sales of products in impacted jurisdictions and could adversely impact demand and revenue growth. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside the u.s. we attempt to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into short-term, foreign exchange contracts. however, these contracts may not cover our full exposure, and can be canceled by the counterparty if currency controls are put in place. thus, our decisions and hedging strategy with respect to currency risks may not be successful and harm our operating results. further, the ability to enter into foreign exchange contracts with financial institutions is based upon our available credit from such institutions and compliance with covenants and other restrictions. operating losses, third party downgrades of our credit rating or instability in the worldwide financial markets could impact our ability to effectively manage our foreign currency exchange rate risk. hedging also exposes us to the credit risk of our counterparty financial institutions. increases in our customers' credit risk could result in credit losses and term extensions under existing contracts with customers with credit losses could result in an increase in our operating costs. some of our oem customers have adopted a subcontractor model that requires us to contract directly with companies, such as odms, that provide manufacturing and fulfillment services to our oem customers. because these subcontractors are generally not as well capitalized as our direct oem customers, this subcontractor model exposes us to increased credit risks. our agreements with our oem customers may not permit us to increase our product prices to alleviate this increased credit risk. additionally, as we attempt to expand our oem and distribution channel sales into emerging economies such as brazil, russia, india and china, the customers with the most success in these regions may have relatively short operating histories, making it more difficult for us to accurately assess the associated credit risks. any credit losses we may suffer as a result of these increased risks, or as a result of credit losses from any significant customer, especially in situations where there are term extensions under existing contracts with such customers, would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. we have made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting, and actual results may differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions. we have made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting. the highly technical nature of our products and the rapidly changing market conditions with which we deal means that actual results may differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions. these changes have impacted our financial results in the past and may continue to do so in the future. key estimates and assumptions for us include: price protection adjustments and other sales promotions and allowances on products sold to retailers, resellers and distributors; inventory adjustments for write-down of inventories to lower of cost or net realizable value; testing of goodwill and other long-lived assets for impairment; 26 table of contents accruals for product returns; accruals for litigation and other contingencies; liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits; and provisional estimates related to tax reform. in addition, changes in existing accounting or taxation rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements or taxation practice could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. the market price of our common stock is volatile. the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. factors that may significantly affect the market price of our common stock include the following: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, including those resulting from the seasonality of our business; perceptions about our strategic relationships and joint ventures, access to supply of flash-based memory, new technologies and technology transitions; announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, which may decrease the volume and profitability of sales of our existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence; strategic actions by us or competitors, such as acquisitions and restructurings; periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price erosion resulting from competitive pressures or industry consolidation; proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments or anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us or our competitors; failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates or changes in financial estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts relating specifically to us or the storage industry in general; announcements relating to dividends and share repurchases; and macroeconomic conditions that affect the market generally and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for our industry. in addition, the sale of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock, or the perception that these sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. further, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the stock prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the stock of public companies, including us. these broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of shares of our common stock. for example, expectations concerning general economic conditions may cause the stock market to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations from time to time that particularly affect the stock prices of many high technology companies. these fluctuations may be unrelated to the operating performance of the companies. securities class action lawsuits are often brought against companies after periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. a number of such suits have been filed against us in the past, and should any new lawsuits be filed, such matters could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources and management's attention. further, a sustained decline in our stock price or market capitalization are among the factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our long-lived assets or goodwill may be impaired and, if an impairment review is triggered, could require us to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements. 27 table of contents our cash balances and investment portfolio are subject to various risks, any of which could adversely impact our financial position. given the international footprint of our business, we have both domestic and international cash balances. from time to time, our investment portfolio may include various holdings, security types, and maturities. our investment portfolio is subject to general credit, liquidity, market, political, sovereign and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events that affect global financial markets. our investment portfolio may include investment grade corporate securities, bank deposits, asset backed securities and u.s. government and agency securities. if global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods of decline, or if there is a downgrade of the u.s. government credit rating due to an actual or threatened default on government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that our investments may experience an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results. a failure of any of these financial institutions in which deposits exceed federal deposit insurance corporation (fdic) limits could also have an adverse impact on our financial position. in addition, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to repay our indebtedness, fund acquisitions, pay dividends, or repurchase shares of our common stock, we may choose or be required to increase our borrowings, if available, or to repatriate funds to the u.s. at an additional tax cost. we must comply with regulations regarding the conversion and distribution of funds earned in the local currencies of various countries. if we cannot comply with these or other applicable regulations, we may face increased difficulties in using cash generated in these countries. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk disclosure about foreign currency risk although the majority of our transactions are in u.s. dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. we purchase short-term, foreign exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for product costs and operating expenses denominated in foreign currencies. the purpose of entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. substantially all of the contract maturity dates do not exceed 12 months . we do not purchase foreign exchange contracts for speculative or trading purposes. for additional information, see part ii, item 8 , note 4 , fair value measurements and investments and note 5 , derivative instruments and hedging activities , of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10 k. as of june 28, 2019 , we had outstanding the foreign exchange contracts presented in the following table. the designated foreign exchange contracts are entered to protect the u.s. dollar value of our product cost and operating expenses. changes in fair values of the non-designated foreign exchange contracts are recognized in other income (expense), net and are largely offset by corresponding changes in the fair values of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. contract amount weighted-average contract rate (1) mark to market unrealized gain (loss) (in millions, except weighted-average contract rate) designated hedges (cash flow hedges): japanese yen $ 1,087 108.98 $ 21 malaysian ringgit 38 4.17 philippine peso 31 53.13 1 thai baht 156 31.68 5 total designated forward contracts $ 1,312 $ 27 non-designated hedges: british pound sterling $ 25 0.79 $ euro 252 0.88 (1 ) japanese yen 3,520 108.35 (28 ) malaysian ringgit 247 4.16 1 philippine peso 80 51.74 1 thai baht 269 31.20 4 total non-designated forward contracts $ 4,393 $ (23 ) (1) expressed in units of foreign currency per u.s. dollar. during 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , total net realized and unrealized transaction and foreign exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to our consolidated financial statements . notwithstanding our efforts to mitigate some foreign exchange risks, we do not hedge all of our foreign currency exposures, and there can be no assurance that our mitigating activities related to the exposures that we hedge will adequately protect us against risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. disclosure about other market risks variable interest rate risk borrowings under our revolving credit facility and our term loan a-1 due 2023 bear interest at a rate per annum, at our option, of either an adjusted london interbank offered rate ( libor ) (subject to a 0.0% floor) plus an applicable margin varying from 1.125% to 2.000% or a base rate plus an applicable margin varying from 0.125% to 1.000% , in each case depending on our corporate credit ratings. as of june 28, 2019 , the applicable margin based on our current credit ratings was 1.5% . borrowings under our u.s. term loan b-4 due 2023 bear interest at a rate per annum, at our option, of either an adjusted libor (subject to a 0.0% floor) plus a margin of 1.75% or a base rate plus a margin of 0.75% . 45 table of contents we have generally held a balance of fixed and variable rate debt. at june 28, 2019 , 68% of the par value of our debt was at variable rates. to balance the portfolio, we entered into pay-fixed interest rate swaps on $2.00 billion notional amount, which effectively converts a portion of our term loan to fixed rates through february 2023. as of june 28, 2019 , we had $7.26 billion of variable rate debt. after giving effect to the $2.00 billion of interest rate swaps, we effectively had $5.26 billion of long-term debt subject to variations in interest rates and a one percent increase in the variable rate of interest would increase annual interest expense by $53 million . for additional information regarding our variable interest rate debt, see part ii, item 8 , note 6 , debt , of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k . 46 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors our business, financial condition and operating results can be affected by a number of risks and uncertainties, whether currently known or unknown, any one or more of which could, directly or indirectly, cause our actual results of operations and financial condition to vary materially from past, or from anticipated future, results of operations and financial condition. the risks and uncertainties discussed below are not the only ones facing our business, but represent risks and uncertainties that we believe are material to us. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or the market price of our common stock. the covid-19 pandemic could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the covid-19 pandemic and efforts to control its spread have impacted and will continue to impact our workforce and operations, and those of our strategic partners, customers, suppliers and logistics providers. these impacts have included and may continue to include under-absorbed overhead, increased logistics and other costs, decreased demand for our products and manufacturing challenges, including decreased product output. while our manufacturing facilities and those used by flash ventures are all currently operational, in some cases with exemptions from government restrictions, this is subject to change based on evolving conditions related to the pandemic. the effects of the pandemic are uncertain and difficult to predict, but may include: further disruptions to our supply chain, our operations or those of our strategic partners, customers or suppliers caused by employees or others contracting covid-19, or governmental orders to contain the spread of covid-19 such as travel restrictions, quarantines, shelter in place orders, trade controls, and business shutdowns; a deepening of the global economic downturn or a recession causing a decrease or shift in short- or long-term demand for our products, resulting in industry oversupply and decreases of average selling prices ( asps ), which would adversely impact our profitability; further deterioration of worldwide credit markets that may limit our ability or increase our cost to obtain external financing to fund our operations and capital expenditures and result in a higher rate of losses on our accounts receivables due to customer credit defaults; extreme volatility in financial markets which has and may continue to adversely impact our stock price and our ability to access the financial markets on acceptable terms; increased data security and technology risk as many employees continue to work from home, including possible outages to systems and technologies critical to remote work and increased data privacy risk with cybercriminals attempting to take advantage of the disruption; reduced productivity or other disruptions of our operations if essential workers in our factories or those returning to our worksites are exposed to or spread covid-19 to other employees; and management's ongoing commitment of significant time, attention and resources to respond to the pandemic. the degree to which the pandemic ultimately impacts our business and results of operations will depend on future developments beyond our control which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted at this time, including the severity and duration of the pandemic, the extent of actions to contain or treat covid-19, the effectiveness of government stimulus programs, any possible resurgence of covid-19 that may occur after the current outbreak subsides, how quickly and to what 12 table of contents extent normal economic and operating activity can resume, and the severity and duration of the global economic downturn that results from the pandemic. the covid-19 pandemic may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in more detail in this risk factors section, such as those relating to adverse global or regional conditions, our highly competitive industry, supply chain disruption, demand conditions and our ability to forecast demand, cost saving initiatives, our indebtedness and liquidity, and cyber attacks. adverse global or regional conditions could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. a large portion of our revenue is derived from our international operations, and many of our products and components are produced overseas. as a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition depend significantly on global and regional conditions. adverse changes in global or regional economic conditions, including, but not limited to, volatility in the financial markets, tighter credit, slower growth in certain geographic regions, political uncertainty, other macroeconomic factors, and changes to social conditions, policies, rules and regulations, could significantly harm demand for our products, increase credit and collectability risks, result in revenue reductions, cause us to change our business practices, increase manufacturing and operating costs or result in impairment charges or other expenses. our revenue and future growth are significantly dependent on the growth of international markets, and we may face difficulties in entering or maintaining international sales markets. we are subject to risks associated with our global manufacturing operations and global marketing and sales efforts, as well as risks associated with our utilization of and reliance on contract manufacturers, including: obtaining requisite governmental permits and approvals, compliance with foreign laws and regulations and changes in foreign laws and regulations; the need to comply with regulations on international business, including the foreign corrupt practices act, the united kingdom bribery act 2010, the anti-bribery laws of other countries and rules regarding conflict minerals; copyright levies or similar fees or taxes imposed in european and other countries; exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations; weaker protection of ip rights; trade restrictions, such as export controls, export bans, embargoes, sanctions, license and certification requirements (including semiconductor, encryption and other technology), new or increased tariffs and fees and complex customs regulations; and difficulties in managing international operations, including appropriate internal controls. as a result of these risks, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. we rely substantially on our business ventures with kioxia for the development and supply of flash-based memory, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. we depend on our ventures with kioxia to develop and manufacture our flash-based memory. we partner with kioxia on the development of flash-based technology, including future generations of 3d nand, as well as other non-volatile memory technology in support of flash ventures. flash ventures is subject to various risks that could harm the value of our investments, our revenue and costs, our future rate of spending, our technology plans and our future growth opportunities. 13 table of contents substantially all of our flash-based memory is supplied by flash ventures, which limits our ability to respond to market demand and supply changes. a failure to accurately forecast demand could cause us to over-invest or under-invest in technology transitions or the expansion of flash ventures' capacity. over-investment by us or our competitors could result in excess supply, which could cause significant decreases in our product prices, significant excess, obsolete inventory or inventory write-downs or under-utilization charges, and the potential impairment of our investments in flash ventures. on the other hand, if we under-invest in flash ventures or otherwise grow or transition flash ventures' capacity more slowly than we expect or than the rest of the industry, we may not have enough supply of the right type of memory or at all to meet demand on a timely and cost effective basis and we may lose opportunities for revenue, gross margin and market share as a result. if our supply is limited, we may make strategic decisions with respect to the allocation of our supply among our products and customers, and these strategic allocation decisions may result in less favorable gross margin or damage certain customer relationships. we are contractually obligated to pay for 50% of the fixed costs of flash ventures regardless of whether we purchase any wafers from flash ventures. furthermore, purchase orders placed with flash ventures and under the foundry arrangements with kioxia for up to three months are binding and cannot be canceled. therefore, once our purchase decisions have been made, our production costs for flash memory are fixed, and we may be unable to reduce costs to match any subsequent declines in pricing or demand, which would harm our gross margin. our limited ability to react to fluctuations in flash memory supply and demand makes our financial results particularly susceptible to variations from our forecasts and expectations. under the flash ventures agreements, we have limited power to unilaterally direct most of the activities that most significantly impact flash ventures' performance and we have limited ability to source or fabricate flash-based memory outside of flash ventures. lack of alignment with kioxia with respect to flash ventures could adversely impact our ability to stay at the forefront of technological advancement and our investment in flash ventures and otherwise harm our business. misalignment could arise due to changes in kioxia's strategic priorities, management, ownership and/or access to capital, which has changed significantly recently and could continue to change. kioxia's stakeholders may include, or have included in the past, flash and hdd competitors, customers, a private equity firm and a bank owned by the government of japan or public shareholders, if kioxia publicly lists its shares in the future. kioxia's management changes, ownership and capital structure could lead to delays in decision-making, disputes, or changes in strategic direction that could adversely impact flash ventures and/or adversely affect our business prospects, results of operations and financial condition. there may exist conflicts of interest between kioxia's stakeholders and flash ventures or us with respect to, among other things, protecting and growing flash ventures' business, ip and competitively sensitive confidential information. flash ventures requires significant investments by both kioxia and us for technology transitions, including the transition to 3d nand, and capacity expansions. in may 2019, kioxia's parent company, kioxia holdings corporation ( khc ), announced new financing in the amount of 1.2 trillion japanese yen. khc's financing agreements and/or its high level of debt could limit kioxia's ability to timely fund or finance investments in flash ventures or our joint development efforts, as well as limit flash ventures' ability to enter into lease financings. availability of lease financings for flash ventures could also be limited by our and/or kioxia's financial performance. to the extent that lease financings for flash ventures are not accessible on favorable terms or at all, more cash would be required to fund investments. if kioxia does not or we do not provide sufficient resources, or have adequate access to credit, to timely fund investments in flash ventures, our investments could be delayed or reduced. delayed or reduced investment in manufacturing capacity or r&amp;d could harm flash ventures' competitiveness and/or our investment in flash ventures. in addition, khc's financing arrangements might be secured by kioxia's equity interests in flash ventures, permitting the lenders to foreclose on those equity interests under certain circumstances. in may 2019, we entered into definitive agreements with kioxia regarding a new 3d nand wafer fabrication facility in kitakami, iwate, japan, known as k1. output from flash ventures' initial production line at k1 began in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020. as k1 is located at a new manufacturing site, k1 could be particularly susceptible to delays and other challenges in the production ramp and yields, qualification of wafers, shipment of samples to customers and customer approval processes. further, although we intend to continue to jointly invest with kioxia to ramp up manufacturing capacity at k1, there is no certainty as to when, and on what terms, we will do so. if and for so long as our share of the k1 capacity falls below a specified threshold, we will be responsible for bearing fixed costs associated with k1's operations at that threshold, which could adversely affect our financial results. 14 table of contents we participate in a highly competitive industry that is subject to declining average selling prices ( asps ), volatile demand, rapid technological change and industry consolidation, all of which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. demand for our devices, software and solutions that we offer to our customers, which we refer to in this item 1a as our products , depends in large part on the demand for systems (including personal computers and mobile devices) manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems. the demand for systems has been volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand for our products in any given period. the prices of our products are influenced by, among other factors, the balance between supply and demand in the storage market, including the effects of new fab capacity, macroeconomic factors, business conditions, technology transitions and other actions taken by us or our competitors. the storage market has experienced volatile product life cycles, which can adversely affect our ability to recover the cost of product development, and periods of excess capacity, which can lead to liquidation of excess inventories, significant reductions in asps and adverse impacts on our revenue and gross margins. further, our asps and gross margins tend to decline when there is a shift in the mix of product sales, and sales of lower priced products increase relative to those of higher priced products. further, we face potential gross margin pressures resulting from our asps declining more rapidly than our cost of revenue. rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and profitability of sales of existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence. finally, the data storage industry has experienced consolidation over the past several years. further consolidation across the industry could enhance the capacity, abilities and resources and lower the cost structure of some of our competitors, causing us to be at a competitive disadvantage. these factors may result in significant shifts in market share among the industry's major participants, including a substantial decrease in our market share, all of which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. in addition, we compete based on our ability to offer our customers competitive solutions that provide the most current and desired products and service features. as we compete in new product areas, the overall complexity of our business may increase at an accelerated rate and may result in increases in r&amp;d expenses and substantial investments in manufacturing capability, technology enhancements and go-to-market capability. we must also qualify our products with customers through potentially lengthy testing processes, which may result in delayed, reduced or lost product sales. some of our competitors offer products and technologies that we do not offer and may be able to use their broader product and technology portfolio to win sales from us, and some of our customers may be developing storage solutions internally, which may reduce their demand for our products. we expect that competition will continue to be intense, and there is a risk that our competitors may be able to gain a product offering or cost structure advantage over us, which may result in a loss of business to us. further, some of our competitors may utilize certain pricing strategies, including offering products at prices at or below cost, that we may be unable to competitively match. we may also have difficulty effectively competing with manufacturers benefitting from governmental investments. if we do not properly manage technology transitions and product development and introduction, our competitiveness and operating results may be negatively affected. the storage markets in which we offer our products continuously undergo technology transitions that we must anticipate and adapt our existing products or develop new products to address in a timely manner. if we fail to implement new technologies successfully, if we are slower than our competitors at implementing new technologies, or if our technology transitions or product development are more costly to complete than anticipated, we may not be able to offer products our customers desire and our costs may not remain competitive, which would harm revenues, our gross margin and operating results. in addition, the success of our technology transitions and product development and introduction depends on a number of other factors, including: r&amp;d expenses and results; difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp; market acceptance/qualification; effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand; 15 table of contents the vertical integration of some of our products, which may result in more capital expenditures and greater fixed costs than if we were not vertically integrated; our ability to cost effectively respond to customer requests for new products or features and software associated with our products; our ability to increase our software development capability; and the effectiveness of our go-to-market capability in selling new products. moving to new technologies and products may require us to align to, and build, a new supply base. our success in new product areas may be dependent in part on our ability to develop close relationships with new suppliers and on our ability to enter into favorable supply agreements. where this cannot be done, our business and operations may be adversely affected. in addition, if our customers choose to delay transition to new technologies, if demand for the products that we develop is lower than expected or if the supporting technologies to implement these new technologies are not available, we may be unable to achieve the cost structure required to support our profit objectives or may be unable to grow or maintain our market position. additionally, new technologies and products could substitute for or replace our current technologies and products and make them obsolete. we also develop products to meet certain industry and technical standards, which may change. we could incur substantial costs as a result of shifts in technology and standards, such as adopting new standards or investing in different capital equipment or manufacturing processes to remain competitive. for additional technology transition risks related to flash ventures, see the risk factor entitled we rely substantially on our business ventures with kioxia for the development and supply of flash-based memory, which subjects us to risks and uncertainties that could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. our strategic relationships subject us to risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have entered into strategic relationships with various partners for future product development, sales growth and the supply of technologies, components, equipment and materials for use in our product design and manufacturing, including our partnership with kioxia for flash-based memory development and manufacturing. these strategic relationships are subject to various risks that could adversely affect the value of our investments and our results of operations and financial condition. these risks include, but are not limited to, the following: our interests could diverge from our partners' interests or we may not agree with co-venturers on ongoing activities, technology transitions or on the amount, timing or nature of further investments in the relationship; we may experience difficulties and delays in product and technology development at, ramping production at, and transferring technology to, our business ventures; our control over the operations of our business ventures is limited; due to financial constraints, our co-venturers may be unable to meet their commitments to us or may pose credit risks for our transactions with them; due to differing business models, financial constraints or long-term business goals, our partners may decide not to join us in funding capital investment by our business ventures, which may result in higher levels of cash expenditures by us or prevent us from proceeding in the investment; we may lose the rights to technology or products being developed by the strategic relationship, including if any of our co-venturers is acquired by another company or otherwise transfers its interest in the business venture, files for bankruptcy or experiences financial or other losses; a bankruptcy event involving a co-venturer could result in the early termination or adverse modification of the business venture or agreements governing the business venture; we may experience difficulties or delays in collecting amounts due to us from our co-venturers; 16 table of contents the terms of our arrangements may turn out to be unfavorable; and changes in tax, legal or regulatory requirements may necessitate changes in the agreements with our co-venturers. if our strategic relationships are unsuccessful or there are unanticipated changes in, or termination of, our strategic relationships, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. we are dependent on a limited number of qualified suppliers who provide critical materials or components, and a disruption in our supply chain, including a shortage in supply or a supplier's failure to support us in a timely manner with goods or services at a quality level and cost acceptable to us, or supplier consolidation, could adversely affect our margins, revenues and operating results . we depend on an external supply base for technologies, software (including firmware), preamps, controllers, dynamic random-access memory, components, equipment and materials for use in our product design and manufacturing. we also depend on suppliers for a portion of our wafer testing, chip assembly, product assembly and product testing, and on service suppliers for providing technical support for our products. in addition, we use logistics partners to manage our just-in-time hubs, distribution centers and freight from suppliers to our factories and from our factories to our customers throughout the world. many of the components and much of the equipment we acquire must be specifically designed to be compatible for use in our products or for developing and manufacturing our future products, and are only available from a limited number of suppliers, some of whom are our sole-source suppliers. we are therefore dependent on these suppliers to be able and willing to meet our business needs including dedicating adequate engineering resources to develop components that can be successfully integrated into our products, technology and equipment. our suppliers have in the past been, and may in the future be, unable or unwilling to meet our requirements. if we are unable to purchase sufficient quantities from our current suppliers or qualify and engage additional suppliers, or if we cannot purchase materials at a reasonable price, we may not be able to meet demand for our products. trade restrictions, including tariffs, quotas and embargoes, demand from other high volume industries for materials or components used in our products, disruptions in supplier relationships or shortages in other components and materials used in our customers' products could result in increased costs to us or decreased demand for our products, which could negatively impact our operating results. delays or cost increases experienced by our suppliers in developing or sourcing materials and components for use in our products or incompatibility or quality issues relating to our products, could also harm our financial results as well as business relationships with our customers. we do not have long-term contracts with some of our existing suppliers, nor do we always have guaranteed manufacturing capacity with our suppliers and, therefore, we cannot guarantee that they will devote sufficient resources or capacity to manufacturing our products. any significant problems that occur at our suppliers, or their failure to perform at the level we expect, could lead to product shortages or quality assurance problems, either of which would harm our operating results and financial condition. when we do have contractual commitments with component suppliers in an effort to increase and stabilize the supply of those components, those commitments may require us to buy a substantial number of components from the supplier or make significant cash advances to the supplier; however, these commitments may not result in a satisfactory increase or stabilization of the supply of such components and may cause us to have inadequate or excess component inventory, which could increase our operating costs and adversely affect our operating results. in addition, our supply base has experienced industry consolidation. our suppliers may be acquired by our competitors, consolidate, decide to exit the industry, or redirect their investments and increase costs to us, each of which may have an adverse effect on our business and operations. in addition, some of our suppliers have experienced a decline in financial performance. where we rely on a limited number of suppliers or a single supplier, the risk of supplier loss due to industry consolidation or a decline in financial performance is enhanced. some of our suppliers may also be competitors in other areas of our business, which could lead to difficulties in price negotiations or meeting our supply requirements. any disruption in our supply chain could reduce our revenue and adversely impact our financial results. 17 table of contents our operations, and those of certain of our suppliers and customers, are subject to substantial risk of damage or disruption. as a result of our cost structure and strategy of vertical integration, we conduct our operations at large, high volume, purpose-built facilities in california and throughout asia. the facilities of many of our customers, our suppliers and our customers' suppliers are also concentrated in certain geographic locations throughout asia and elsewhere. a fire, flood, earthquake, tsunami or other natural disaster, condition or event such as a power outage, terrorist attack, political instability, civil unrest, localized labor unrest or other employment issues, or a health epidemic that adversely affects any of these facilities, the employees, the technology infrastructure or logistics operators at these facilities, would significantly affect our ability to manufacture or sell our products and source components, which would result in a substantial loss of sales and revenue and a substantial harm to our operating results. in addition, the geographic concentration of our manufacturing sites could exacerbate the negative impacts resulting from any of these problems. a significant event that impacts any of our manufacturing sites, or the sites of our customers or suppliers, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture or sell our products, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. we may incur losses beyond the limits of, or outside the scope of, the coverage of our insurance policies. there can be no assurance that in the future we will be able to maintain existing insurance coverage or that premiums will not increase substantially. due to market availability, pricing or other reasons, we may elect not to purchase insurance coverage or to purchase only limited coverage. we maintain limited insurance coverage and, in some cases, no coverage at all, for natural disasters and environmental damages, as these types of insurance are sometimes not available or available only at a prohibitive cost. we depend upon kioxia to obtain and maintain sufficient property, business interruption and other insurance for flash ventures. if kioxia fails to do so, we could suffer significant unreimbursable losses, and such failure could also cause flash ventures to breach various financing covenants. we experience sales seasonality and cyclicality, which could cause our operating results to fluctuate. in addition, accurately forecasting demand has become more difficult, which could adversely affect our business and financial results or operating efficiencies. sales of computer systems, mobile devices, storage subsystems, gaming consoles and consumer electronics tend to be seasonal and subject to supply-demand cycles, and therefore we expect to continue to experience seasonality and cyclicality in our business as we respond to variations in supply dynamics and customer demand. changes in seasonal and cyclical supply and demand patterns have made it, and could continue to make it, more difficult for us to forecast demand, especially as a result of the current macroeconomic environment. changes in the product or channel mix of our business can also impact seasonal and cyclical patterns, adding complexity in forecasting demand. seasonality and cyclicality also may lead to higher volatility in our stock price. it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which seasonality and cyclicality may affect our stock price or business in future periods because of the rate and unpredictability of product transitions, actions by competitors, new product introductions and macroeconomic conditions. the variety and volume of products we manufacture are based in part on accurately forecasting market and customer demand for our products. accurately forecasting demand has also become increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers due to volatility in global economic conditions and industry consolidation, resulting in less availability of historical market data for certain product segments. further, for many of our original equipment manufacturers ( oem ) customers utilizing just-in-time inventory, we do not generally require firm order commitments and instead receive a periodic forecast of requirements, which may prove to be inaccurate. in addition, because our products are designed to be largely interchangeable with competitors' products, our demand forecasts may be impacted significantly by the strategic actions of our competitors. as forecasting demand becomes more difficult, the risk that our forecasts are not in line with demand increases. if our forecasts exceed actual market demand, we could experience periods of product oversupply, excess inventory, and price decreases, which could impact our sales, asps and gross margin, thereby adversely affecting our operating results and our financial condition. if market demand increases significantly beyond our forecasts or beyond our ability to add manufacturing capacity, then we may not be able to satisfy customer product needs, possibly resulting in a loss of market share if our competitors are able to meet customer demands. in addition, some of our components have long lead-times, requiring us to place orders several months in advance of anticipated demand. such long lead-times increase the risk of excess inventory or loss of sales in the event our forecasts vary substantially from actual demand. 18 table of contents the loss of our key management, staff and skilled employees, the inability to hire and integrate new employees or decisions to realign our business could negatively impact our business prospects. our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key management, staff and skilled employees, many of whom would be extremely difficult to replace. changes in our key management team can result in loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge, departure of other key employees, disruptions to our operations and inefficiency during transitional periods. global competition for skilled employees in the technology related industry is intense, and our business success becomes increasingly dependent on our ability to retain our key staff and skilled employees, to implement succession plans for our key management and staff, to attract, integrate and retain new skilled employees, including employees from acquisitions, and to make decisions to realign our business to take advantage of efficiencies or reduce redundancies. changes in immigration policies may impair our ability to recruit and hire technical and professional talent. our employee hiring and retention also depend on our ability to build and maintain a diverse and inclusive workplace culture and be viewed as an employer of choice. additionally, because a substantial portion of our key employees' compensation is placed at risk and linked to the performance of our business, including through equity compensation, when our operating results are negatively impacted, we may be at a competitive disadvantage for retaining and hiring key management, staff and skilled employees versus other companies that may pay a relatively higher portion of base compensation. if we are unable to hire and retain key management, staff or skilled employees, our operating results would likely be harmed. if we fail to identify, manage, complete and integrate acquisitions, investment opportunities or other significant transactions, which are a key part of our growth strategy, it may adversely affect our future results. we seek to be an industry-leading developer, manufacturer and provider of innovative storage solutions, balancing our core hard drive and flash memory business with growing investments in newer areas that we believe will provide us with higher growth opportunities. acquisitions of, investment opportunities in, or other significant transactions with companies that are complementary to our business are a key part of our overall business strategy. in order to pursue this part of our growth strategy successfully, we must continue to identify attractive acquisition or investment opportunities, successfully complete the transactions, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as integration of the acquired company or employees. we may not be able to continue to identify or complete appealing acquisition or investment opportunities given the intense competition for these transactions. even if we identify and complete suitable corporate transactions, we may not be able to successfully address any integration challenges in a timely manner, or at all. there may be difficulties with implementing new systems and processes or with integrating systems and processes of companies with complex operations, which could result in inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies and may increase the risk that our internal controls are found to be ineffective. failing to successfully integrate or realign our business to take advantage of efficiencies or reduce redundancies of an acquisition may result in not realizing all or any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. in addition, failing to achieve the financial model projections for an acquisition or changes in technology development and related roadmaps following an acquisition may result in the incurrence of impairment charges and other expenses, both of which could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. acquisitions and investments may also result in the issuance of equity securities that may be dilutive to our shareholders and the issuance of additional indebtedness that would put additional pressure on liquidity. furthermore, we may agree to provide continuing service obligations or enter into other agreements in order to obtain certain regulatory approvals of our corporate transactions, and failure to satisfy these additional obligations could result in our failing to obtain regulatory approvals or the imposition of additional obligations on us, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, new legislation or additional regulations may affect or impair our ability to invest with or in certain other countries or require us to obtain regulatory approvals to do so, including investments in joint ventures, minority investments and outbound technology transfers to certain countries. any cost saving initiatives, restructurings or divestitures that we undertake may result in disruptions to our operations and may not deliver the results we expect, which may adversely affect our business. from time to time, we engage in cost saving initiatives, restructurings and divestitures that may result in workforce reduction and consolidation of our manufacturing or other facilities. as a result of these actions, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge, disruptions to our operations and inefficiency during transitional periods. these actions could also impact employee retention. in addition, we cannot be sure that these actions will be as successful in reducing our overall expenses as we expect, that additional costs will not offset any such reductions or consolidations or that we do not forego future business opportunities as a result of these actions. if our operating costs are higher than we expect or if we do not maintain adequate control of our costs and expenses, our operating results could be adversely affected. 19 table of contents our high level of debt may adversely impact our liquidity, restrict our operations and ability to respond to business opportunities, and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. as of july 3, 2020, our total indebtedness was $9.71 billion in aggregate principal, and we had $2.25 billion of additional borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility, subject to customary conditions under the credit agreement. our high level of debt could have significant consequences, which include, but are not limited to, the following: limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes; imposing financial and other restrictive covenants on our operations, including limiting our ability to (i) declare or pay dividends or repurchase shares of our common stock; (ii) purchase assets, make investments, complete acquisitions, consolidate or merge with or into, or sell all or substantially all of our assets to, another person; (iii) dispose of assets; (iv) incur liens; and (v) enter into transactions with affiliates; and making us more vulnerable to economic downturns and limiting our ability to withstand competitive pressures or take advantage of new opportunities to grow our business. our ability to meet our debt service obligations, comply with our debt covenants and deleverage depends on our cash flows and financial performance, which are affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. the rate at which we will be able to or choose to deleverage is uncertain. failure to meet our debt service obligations or comply with our debt covenants could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. we may be unable to cure, or obtain a waiver of, an event of default or otherwise amend our debt agreements to prevent an event of default thereunder on terms acceptable to us or at all. in that event, the debt holders could accelerate the related debt, which may result in the cross-acceleration or cross-default of other debt, leases or other obligations. we may not have sufficient funds available to repay accelerated indebtedness, and we may be required to refinance all or part of our debt, sell important strategic assets at unfavorable prices, incur additional indebtedness or issue common stock or other equity securities, which we may be unable to do on terms acceptable to us, in amounts sufficient to meet our needs or at all. our inability to service our debt obligations or refinance our debt could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. further, if we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our secured indebtedness, the holder of such debt could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. refinancing our indebtedness may also require us to expense previous debt issuance costs or to incur new debt issuance costs. as our bank debt contains a variable interest rate component based on our corporate credit ratings, a decline in our ratings could result in increased interest rates and debt service obligations. in addition, our ratings impact the cost and availability of future borrowings and, accordingly, our cost of capital. our ratings reflect the opinions of the ratings agencies as to our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations. there can be no assurance that we will achieve a particular rating or maintain a particular rating in the future. our credit agreement uses the london interbank offered rate ( libor ) as a reference rate for our term loans and revolving credit facility, such that the applicable interest rate may, at our option, be calculated based on libor. in july 2017, the u.k.'s financial conduct authority, which regulates libor, announced that it intends to phase out libor by the end of 2021. in april 2018, the federal reserve bank of new york began publishing a secured overnight funding rate, which is intended to replace u.s. dollar libor. plans for alternative reference rates for other currencies have also been announced. at this time, we cannot predict how markets will respond to these proposed alternative rates or the effect of any changes to libor or the discontinuation of libor. if libor is no longer available or if our lenders have increased costs due to changes in libor, we may experience potential increases in interest rates on our variable rate debt, which could adversely impact our interest expense, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, replacing libor with an alternative reference rate for any of our debt could be a taxable event. we may from time to time seek to further refinance our substantial indebtedness by issuing additional shares of common stock, which may dilute our existing shareholders, reduce the value of our common stock, or both. 20 table of contents loss of revenue from a key customer, or consolidation among our customer base, could harm our operating results. during the year ended july 3, 2020, 42% of our revenue came from sales to our top 10 customers. these customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial demands on us, including demands on product pricing and on contractual terms, often resulting in the allocation of risk to us as the supplier. our ability to maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is essential to our future performance. we have experienced and may in the future experience events such as the loss of a key customer, prohibition or restriction of sales to a key customer by law, regulation or other government action, reductions in sales to or orders by a key customer, customer requirements to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs or the acquisition of a key customer by one of our competitors. these events would likely harm our operating results and financial condition. further, government authorities may implement laws or regulations or take other actions that could result in significant changes to the business or operating models of our customers. such changes could adversely affect our operating results. additionally, if there is consolidation among our customer base, our customers may be able to command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. consolidation among our customer base may also lead to reduced demand for our products, increased customer pressure on our prices, replacement of our products by the combined entity with those of our competitors and cancellations of orders, each of which could harm our operating results. also, the storage ecosystem is constantly evolving, and our traditional customer base is changing. fewer companies now hold greater market share for certain applications and services, such as cloud storage and computing platforms, mobile, social media, shopping and streaming media. as a result, the competitive landscape is changing, giving these companies increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. in addition, the changes in our evolving customer base create new selling and distribution patterns to which we must adapt. to remain competitive, we must respond to these changes by ensuring we have proper scale in this evolving market, as well as offer products that meet the technological requirements of this customer base at competitive pricing points. to the extent we are not successful in adequately responding to these changes, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. tax matters may materially affect our financial position and results of operations. changes in tax laws in the united states, the european union and around the globe have impacted and will continue to impact our effective worldwide tax rate, which may materially affect our financial position and results of operations. further, organizations such as the organization for economic cooperation and development, have published action plans that, if adopted by countries where we do business, could increase our tax obligations in these countries. due to the large scale of our u.s. and international business activities, many of these enacted and proposed changes to the taxation of our activities could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. additionally, portions of our operations are subject to a reduced tax rate or are free of tax under various tax holidays that expire in whole or in part from time to time, or may be terminated if certain conditions are not met. although many of these holidays may be extended when certain conditions are met, we may not be able to meet such conditions. if the tax holidays are not extended, or if we fail to satisfy the conditions of the reduced tax rate, then our effective tax rate could increase in the future. our determination of our tax liability in the u.s. and other jurisdictions is subject to review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities. for example, as disclosed in part ii, item 8, note 13, income tax expense, of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k, we are under examination by the internal revenue service for certain fiscal years and in connection with that examination, we received statutory notices of deficiency seeking certain adjustments to income and have filed petitions with the u.s. tax court. although we believe our tax positions are properly supported, the final timing and resolution of any tax examinations are subject to significant uncertainty and could result in litigation or the payment of significant amounts to the applicable tax authority in order to resolve examination of our tax positions, which could result in an increase or decrease of our current estimate of unrecognized tax benefits and may negatively impact our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 21 table of contents sales in the distribution channel and to the retail market are important to our business, and if we fail to respond to demand changes within these markets, or maintain and grow our applicable market share, our operating results could suffer. our distribution customers typically sell to small computer manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators and other resellers. we face significant competition in this channel as a result of limited product qualification programs and a significant focus on price and availability of product. as a result of the shift to mobile devices, more computing devices are being delivered to the market as complete systems, which could weaken the distribution market. if we fail to respond to changes in demand in the distribution market, our operating results could suffer. additionally, if the distribution market weakens as a result of technology transitions or a significant change in consumer buying preference, or if we experience significant price declines due to demand changes in the distribution channel, our operating results would be adversely affected. negative changes in the credit-worthiness or the ability to access credit, or the bankruptcy or shutdown of any of our significant retail or distribution partners would harm our revenue and our ability to collect outstanding receivable balances. a significant portion of our sales is also made through retailers. our success in the retail market depends in large part on our ability to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation and to expand into and gain market acceptance of our products in multiple retail market channels. particularly in the retail market, adverse publicity, whether or not justified, or allegations of product or service quality issues, even if false or unfounded, could damage our reputation and cause our customers to choose products offered by our competitors. further, changes to the retail environment, such as store closures caused by macroeconomic conditions or changing customer preferences, may reduce the demand for our products. if customers no longer maintain a preference for our product brands or if our retailers are not successful in selling our products, our operating results may be adversely affected. our operating results fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from period to period due to many factors, which may result in a significant decline in our stock price. our quarterly operating results may be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a number of other factors including: weakness in demand for one or more product categories; the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major customers or loss of major customers; our product mix; reductions in the asps of our products and lower margins; excess output, capacity or inventory, resulting in lower asps, financial charges or impairments, or insufficient output, capacity or inventory, resulting in lost revenue opportunities; inability to successfully implement technology transitions or other technology developments, or other failure to reduce product costs to keep pace with reduction in asps; manufacturing delays or interruptions; delays in design wins or customer qualifications, acceptance by customers of competing products in lieu of our products; variations in the cost of and lead times for components for our products, disruptions of our supply chain; increase in costs due to warranty claims; and higher costs as a result of currency exchange rate fluctuations. we often ship a high percentage of our total quarterly sales in the third month of the quarter, which makes it difficult for us to forecast our financial results before the end of the quarter. as a result of the above or other factors, our forecast of operating results for the quarter may differ materially from our actual financial results. if our results of operations fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, it could cause an immediate and significant decline in our stock price. 22 table of contents if our technology infrastructure, systems or products are compromised, damaged or interrupted by cyber attacks, data security breaches, other security problems, design defects or sustain system failures, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. we experience cyber attacks of varying degrees on our technology infrastructure and systems and, as a result, unauthorized parties have obtained in the past, and may in the future obtain, access to our computer systems and networks, including cloud-based platforms. the technology infrastructure and systems of our suppliers, vendors, service providers, cloud solution providers and partners have in the past experienced and may in the future experience such attacks. cyber attacks can include computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, worms, and other malicious software programs or other attacks, covert introduction of malware to computers and networks, impersonation of authorized users, and efforts to discover and exploit any design flaws, bugs, security vulnerabilities or security weaknesses, as well as intentional or unintentional acts by employees or other insiders with access privileges, intentional acts of vandalism or fraud by third parties and sabotage. in some instances, efforts to correct vulnerabilities or prevent attacks may reduce the performance of our computer systems and networks, which could negatively impact our business. we believe cyber attack attempts are increasing in number and that cyber attackers are developing increasingly sophisticated systems and means to not only attack systems, but also to evade detection or to obscure their activities. our products are also targets for cyber attacks, including those products utilized in cloud-based environments as well as our cloud service offerings. while some of our products contain encryption or security algorithms to protect third-party content or user-generated data stored on our products, these products could still be hacked or the encryption schemes could be compromised, breached, or circumvented by motivated and sophisticated attackers. further, our products contain sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that may contain security problems, security vulnerabilities, or defects in design or manufacture, including bugs and other problems that could interfere with the intended operation of our products. to the extent our products are hacked or the encryption schemes are compromised or breached, this could harm our business by requiring us to employ additional resources to fix the errors or defects, exposing us to litigation and indemnification claims and hurting our reputation. if efforts to breach our infrastructure, systems or products are successful or we are unable to protect against these risks, we could suffer interruptions, delays, or cessation of operations of our systems, and loss or misuse of proprietary or confidential information, ip, or sensitive or personal information. breaches of our infrastructure, systems or products could also cause our customers and other affected third parties to suffer loss or misuse of proprietary or confidential information, ip, or sensitive or personal information, and could harm our relationships with customers and other third parties. as a result, we could experience additional costs, indemnification claims, litigation, and damage to our brand and reputation. all of these consequences could harm our reputation and our business and materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations relating to the collection, use, sharing, and security of third-party data including personal data, and our failure to comply with these laws, rules and regulations could subject us to proceedings by governmental entities or others and cause us to incur penalties, significant legal liability, or loss of customers, loss of revenue, and reputational harm . we are subject to laws, rules, and regulations relating to the collection, use, and security and privacy of third-party data including data that relates to or identifies an individual person. in many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, and among us, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations. our possession and use of third-party data, including personal data and employee data in conducting our business, subjects us to legal and regulatory burdens that require us to notify vendors, customers or employees or other parties with which we have commercial relations of a data security breach and to respond to regulatory inquiries and to enforcement proceedings. laws and regulations relating to the collection, use, and security and privacy of third-party data change over time and new laws and regulations become effective from time to time. for example, the california consumer privacy act ( ccpa ), which became effective january 1, 2020, imposes new obligations on certain companies doing business in california with respect to the personal information of california residents. these obligations include new notice and privacy policy requirements, as well as new obligations to respond to requests to know and access personal information, delete personal information and say no to the sale of personal information. global privacy and data protection legislation, enforcement, and policy activity in this area are rapidly expanding and evolving, and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. compliance requirements and even our inadvertent failure to comply with applicable laws may cause us to incur substantial costs, subject us to proceedings by governmental entities or others, and cause us to incur penalties or other significant legal liability, or lead us to change our business practices. 23 table of contents we are subject to risks related to product defects, which could result in product recalls or epidemic failures and could subject us to warranty claims in excess of our warranty provisions or which are greater than anticipated, litigation or indemnification claims. we warrant the majority of our products for periods of one to five years. we test our products in our manufacturing facilities through a variety of means. however, our testing may fail to reveal defects in our products that may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market. in addition, our products may be used in a manner that is not intended or anticipated by us, resulting in potential liability. accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will occur, including as a result of third-party components or applications that we incorporate in our products, which could require a product recall. product recalls can be expensive to implement. as part of a product recall, we may be required or choose to replace the defective product. moreover, there is a risk that product defects may trigger an epidemic failure clause in a customer agreement. if an epidemic failure occurs, we may be required to replace or refund the value of the defective product and to cover certain other costs associated with the consequences of the epidemic failure. in addition, product defects, product recalls or epidemic failures may cause damage to our reputation or customer relationships, lost revenue, indemnification for a recall of our customers' products, warranty claims, litigation or loss of market share with our customers, including our oem and odm customers. our business liability insurance may be inadequate or future coverage may be unavailable on acceptable terms, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. our standard warranties contain limits on damages and exclusions of liability for consequential damages and for misuse, improper installation, alteration, accident or mishandling while in the possession of someone other than us. we record an accrual for estimated warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. we may incur additional expenses if our warranty provisions do not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues related to defects in our products, whether as a result of a product recall, epidemic failure or otherwise. if these additional expenses are significant, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. we are subject to state, federal and international legal and regulatory requirements, such as environmental, labor, trade, health, safety, anti-corruption and tax regulations, customers' standards of corporate citizenship, and industry and coalition standards, such as those established by the responsible business alliance ( rba ), and compliance with those requirements could cause an increase in our operating costs and failure to comply may harm our business. we are subject to, and may become subject to additional, state, federal and international laws and regulations governing our environmental, labor, trade, health, safety, anti-corruption and tax practices. these laws and regulations, particularly those applicable to our international operations, are or may be complex, extensive and subject to change. we will need to ensure that we and our suppliers, customers and partners timely comply with such laws and regulations, which may result in an increase in our operating costs. legislation has been, and may in the future be, enacted in locations where we manufacture or sell our products, which could impair our ability to conduct business in certain jurisdictions or with certain customers and harm our operating results. in addition, climate change and financial reform legislation is a significant topic of discussion and has generated and may continue to generate federal, international or other regulatory responses in the near future. if we or our suppliers, customers or partners fail to timely comply with applicable legislation, certain customers may refuse to purchase our products or we may face increased operating costs as a result of taxes, fines or penalties, or legal liability and reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. in connection with our compliance with environmental laws and regulations, as well as our compliance with industry and coalition environmental initiatives, such as those established by the rba, the standards of business conduct required by some of our customers, and our commitment to sound corporate citizenship in all aspects of our business, we could incur substantial compliance and operating costs and be subject to disruptions to our operations and logistics. in addition, if we or our suppliers, customers or partners were found to be in violation of these laws or noncompliant with these initiatives or standards of conduct, we could be subject to governmental fines, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation and corporate brand, which could cause our financial condition and operating results to suffer. 24 table of contents we and certain of our officers are at times involved in litigation, investigations and governmental proceedings, which may be costly, may divert the efforts of our key personnel and could result in adverse court rulings, fines or penalties, which could materially harm our business. from time to time, we are involved in litigation, including antitrust and commercial matters, putative securities class action suits and other actions. we are the plaintiff in some of these actions and the defendant in others. some of the actions seek injunctive relief, including injunctions against the sale of our products, and substantial monetary damages, which if granted or awarded, could materially harm our business, financial condition and operating results. from time to time, we may also be the subject of inquiries, requests for information, investigations and actions by government and regulatory agencies regarding our businesses. any such matters could result in material adverse consequences to our results of operations, financial condition or ability to conduct our business, including fines, penalties or restrictions on our business activities. litigation is subject to inherent risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. in the event of an adverse outcome in any litigation, investigation or governmental proceeding, we could be required to pay substantial damages, fines or penalties and cease certain practices or activities, including the manufacture, use and sale of products. with or without merit, such matters can be complex, can extend for a protracted period of time, can be very expensive and the expense can be unpredictable. litigation initiated by us could also result in counter-claims against us, which could increase the costs associated with the litigation and result in our payment of damages or other judgments against us. in addition, litigation, investigations or governmental proceedings and any related publicity may divert the efforts and attention of some of our key personnel, affect demand for our products and harm the market prices of our securities. we may be obligated to indemnify our current or former directors or employees, or former directors or employees of companies that we have acquired, in connection with litigation, investigations or governmental proceedings. these liabilities could be substantial and may include, among other things: the costs of defending lawsuits against these individuals; the cost of defending shareholder derivative suits; the cost of governmental, law enforcement or regulatory investigations or proceedings; civil or criminal fines and penalties; legal and other expenses; and expenses associated with the remedial measures, if any, which may be imposed. the nature of our industry and its reliance on ip and other proprietary information subjects us and our suppliers, customers and partners to the risk of significant litigation. the data storage industry has been characterized by significant litigation. this includes litigation relating to patent and other ip rights, product liability claims and other types of litigation. we have historically been involved in frequent disputes regarding patent and other ip rights, and we have in the past received, and we may in the future receive, communications from third parties asserting that certain of our products, processes or technologies infringe upon their patent rights, copyrights, trademark rights or other ip rights. we may also receive claims of potential infringement if we attempt to license ip to others. ip risks increase when we enter into new markets where we have little or no ip protection as a defense against litigation. the complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of ip litigation increase the ip risks we face. litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. moreover, the results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may result in adverse rulings or decisions. we may be subject to injunctions, enter into settlements or be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. if we incorporate third-party technology into our products or if claims or actions are asserted against us for alleged infringement of the ip of others, we may be required to obtain a license or cross-license, modify our existing technology or design a new non-infringing technology. such licenses or design modifications can be extremely costly. we evaluate notices of alleged patent infringement and notices of patents from patent holders that we receive from time to time. we may decide to settle a claim or action against us, which settlement could be costly. we may also be liable for any past infringement. if there is an adverse ruling against us in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued barring production or sale of any infringing product. it could also result in a damage award equal to a reasonable royalty or lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement, treble damages. any of these results would increase our costs and harm our operating results. in addition, our suppliers, customers and partners are subject to similar risks of litigation, and a material, adverse ruling against a supplier, customer or partner could negatively impact our business. 25 table of contents moreover, from time to time, we agree to indemnify certain of our suppliers and customers for alleged ip infringement. the scope of such indemnity varies but may include indemnification for direct and consequential damages and expenses, including attorneys' fees. we may be engaged in litigation as a result of these indemnification obligations. third party claims for patent infringement are excluded from coverage under our insurance policies. a future obligation to indemnify our customers or suppliers may harm our business, financial condition and operating results. our reliance on ip and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients of our business could be copied by competitors. our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary nature of our technology, including non-patentable ip such as our process technology. we primarily rely on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. there can be no assurance that our existing patents will continue to be held valid, if challenged, or that they will have sufficient scope or strength to protect us. it is also possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose, illegally or otherwise, our proprietary technologies and processes, despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. if a competitor is able to reproduce or otherwise capitalize on our technology despite the safeguards we have in place, it may be difficult, expensive or impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. there are entities whom we believe may infringe our ip. enforcement of our rights often requires litigation. if we bring a patent infringement action and are not successful, our competitors would be able to use similar technology to compete with us. moreover, the defendant in such an action may successfully countersue us for infringement of their patents or assert a counterclaim that our patents are invalid or unenforceable. also, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our ip to the same extent as do u.s. laws. in addition to patent protection of ip rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. we rely upon employee, consultant and vendor non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. however, any of our registered or unregistered ip rights may be challenged or exploited by others in the industry, which could harm our operating results. the success of our branded products depends in part on the positive image that consumers have of our brands. we believe the popularity of our brands makes them a target of counterfeiting or imitation, with third parties attempting to pass off counterfeit products as our products. any occurrence of counterfeiting, imitation or confusion with our brands could adversely affect our reputation and impair the value of our brands, which in turn could negatively impact sales of our branded products, our share and our gross margin, as well as increase our administrative costs related to brand protection and counterfeit detection and prosecution. flash ventures' equipment lease agreements contain covenants and other cancellation events, and cancellation of the leases would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. flash ventures sells to and leases back a portion of its equipment from a consortium of financial institutions. most of the lease obligations are guaranteed 50% by us and 50% by kioxia. some of the lease obligations are guaranteed in full by us. as of july 3, 2020, the portion of outstanding obligations covered by our guarantees totaled approximately $1.90 billion, based upon the japanese yen to u.s. dollar exchange rate at july 3, 2020. the leases are subject to customary covenants and cancellation events that relate to flash ventures and each of the guarantors. cancellation events include, among other things, an assignment of all or a substantial part of a guarantor's business and acceleration of other monetary debts of flash ventures or a guarantor above a specified threshold. if a cancellation event were to occur, flash ventures would be required to negotiate a resolution with the other parties to the lease transactions to avoid cancellation and acceleration of the lease obligations. such resolution could include, among other things, supplementary security to be supplied by us, increased interest rates or waiver fees. if a resolution is not reached, we may be required to pay all of the outstanding lease obligations covered by our guarantees, which would significantly reduce our cash position and may force us to seek additional financing, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. if we do not resume paying a quarterly cash dividend or repurchasing shares of our common stock, the market price for our common stock could decline. in april 2020, we suspended our quarterly cash dividend policy. in addition, we have not repurchased shares of our common stock pursuant to our stock repurchase program since the first quarter of fiscal 2019. although we will reevaluate paying cash dividends and repurchasing shares of our common stock when appropriate, there can be no assurance if, when or at what level we may resume these activities. if we choose not to or are unable to resume paying cash dividends or repurchasing shares of our common stock in the future, the market price of our common stock may decline. 26 table of contents fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations may negatively affect our operating results. because we manufacture and sell our products abroad, our revenue, cost of revenue, margins, operating costs and cash flows are impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. if the u.s. dollar exhibits sustained weakness against most foreign currencies, the u.s. dollar equivalents of unhedged manufacturing costs could increase because a significant portion of our production costs are foreign-currency denominated. conversely, there would not be an offsetting impact to revenues since revenues are substantially u.s. dollar denominated. additionally, we negotiate and procure some of our component requirements in u.s. dollars from non-u.s. based vendors. if the u.s. dollar weakens against other foreign currencies, some of our component suppliers may increase the price they charge for their components in order to maintain an equivalent profit margin. in addition, our purchases of flash-based memory from flash ventures and our investment in flash ventures are denominated in japanese yen. if the japanese yen appreciates against the u.s. dollar, our cost of purchasing flash-based memory wafers and the cost to us of future capital funding of flash ventures would increase. if any of these events occur, they could have a negative impact on our operating results. prices for our products are substantially u.s. dollar denominated, even when sold to customers that are located outside the u.s. therefore, as a substantial portion of our sales are from countries outside the u.s., fluctuations in currency exchanges rates, most notably the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against other foreign currencies, contribute to variations in sales of products in impacted jurisdictions and could adversely impact demand and revenue growth. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside the u.s. we attempt to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into short-term foreign exchange contracts. however, these contracts may not cover our full exposure, and can be canceled by the counterparty if currency controls are put in place. thus, our decisions and hedging strategy with respect to currency risks may not be successful and harm our operating results. further, the ability to enter into foreign exchange contracts with financial institutions is based upon our available credit from such institutions and compliance with covenants and other restrictions. operating losses, third party downgrades of our credit rating or instability in the worldwide financial markets could impact our ability to effectively manage our foreign currency exchange rate risk. hedging also exposes us to the credit risk of our counterparty financial institutions. increases in our customers' credit risk could result in credit losses and term extensions under existing contracts with customers with credit losses could result in an increase in our operating costs. some of our oem customers have adopted a subcontractor model that requires us to contract directly with companies, such as odms, that provide manufacturing and fulfillment services to our oem customers. because these subcontractors are generally not as well capitalized as our direct oem customers, this subcontractor model exposes us to increased credit risks. our agreements with our oem customers may not permit us to increase our product prices to alleviate this increased credit risk. additionally, as we attempt to expand our oem and distribution channel sales into emerging economies such as brazil, russia, india and china, the customers with the most success in these regions may have relatively short operating histories, making it more difficult for us to accurately assess the associated credit risks. our customers' credit risk may also be exacerbated by an economic downturn or other adverse global or regional economic conditions. any credit losses we may suffer as a result of these increased risks, or as a result of credit losses from any significant customer, especially in situations where there are term extensions under existing contracts with such customers, would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. the market price of our common stock is volatile. the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. factors that may significantly affect the market price of our common stock include the following: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, including those resulting from the seasonality of our business; perceptions about our strategic relationships and joint ventures, access to supply of flash-based memory, new technologies and technology transitions; announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors, which may decrease the volume and profitability of sales of our existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence; 27 table of contents strategic actions by us or competitors, such as acquisitions and restructurings; periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price erosion resulting from competitive pressures or industry consolidation; proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments or anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us or our competitors; adverse publicity, whether or not justified; failure to meet analysts' revenue or earnings estimates or changes in financial estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts relating specifically to us or the storage industry in general; announcements relating to dividends and share repurchases; and macroeconomic conditions or other events that affect the market generally and, in particular, developments or events impacting our industry. in addition, the sale of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock, or the perception that these sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. further, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the stock prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the stock of public companies, including us. these broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of shares of our common stock. for example, expectations concerning general economic conditions may cause the stock market to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations from time to time that particularly affect the stock prices of many high technology companies. these fluctuations may be unrelated to the operating performance of the companies. securities class action lawsuits are often brought against companies after periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. a number of such suits have been filed against us in the past, and should any new lawsuits be filed, such matters could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources and management's attention. further, a sustained decline in our stock price or market capitalization are among the factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our long-lived assets or goodwill may be impaired and, if an impairment review is triggered, could require us to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements. our cash balances and investment portfolio are subject to various risks, any of which could adversely impact our financial position. given the international footprint of our business, we have both domestic and international cash balances. from time to time, our investment portfolio may include various holdings, security types, and maturities. our investment portfolio is subject to general credit, liquidity, market, political, sovereign and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events that affect global financial markets. our investment portfolio may include investment grade corporate securities, bank deposits, asset backed securities and u.s. government and agency securities. if global credit and equity markets experience prolonged periods of decline, or if there is a downgrade of the u.s. government credit rating due to an actual or threatened default on government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that our investments may experience an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results. a failure of any of these financial institutions in which deposits exceed federal deposit insurance corporation (fdic) limits could also have an adverse impact on our financial position. in addition, if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to repay our indebtedness, fund acquisitions, pay dividends, or repurchase shares of our common stock, we may choose or be required to increase our borrowings, if available, or to repatriate funds to the u.s. at an additional tax cost. we must comply with regulations regarding the conversion and distribution of funds earned in the local currencies of various countries. if we cannot comply with these or other applicable regulations, we may face increased difficulties in using cash generated in these countries. 28 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk disclosure about foreign currency risk although the majority of our transactions are in u.s. dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. we purchase short-term foreign exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for product costs and operating expenses denominated in foreign currencies. the purpose of entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. substantially all of the contract maturity dates do not exceed 12 months. we do not purchase foreign exchange contracts for speculative or trading purposes. for additional information, see part ii, item 8, note 4, fair value measurements and investments, and note 5, derivative instruments and hedging activities , of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. due to macroeconomic changes and volatility experienced in the foreign exchange market recently, we believe sensitivity analysis is more informative in representing the potential impact to the portfolio as a result of market movement. therefore, we have performed sensitivity analyses for 2020 and 2019, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover all of our foreign currency derivative contracts used to offset the underlying exposures. the foreign currency exchange rates used in performing the sensitivity analyses were based on market rates in effect at july 3, 2020 and june 28, 2019. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar would result in a foreign exchange fair value loss of $135 million and $82 million at july 3, 2020 and june 28, 2019, respectively. during 2020, 2019 and 2018, total net realized and unrealized transaction and foreign exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to our consolidated financial statements. notwithstanding our efforts to mitigate some foreign exchange risks, we do not hedge all of our foreign currency exposures, and there can be no assurance that our mitigating activities related to the exposures that we hedge will adequately protect us against risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. disclosure about interest rate risk variable interest rate risk borrowings under our revolving credit facility and our term loan a-1 due 2023 bear interest at a rate per annum, at our option, of either an adjusted london interbank offered rate ( libor ) (subject to a 0.0% floor) plus an applicable margin varying from 1.125% to 2.000% or a base rate plus an applicable margin varying from 0.125% to 1.000%, in each case depending on our corporate credit ratings. as of july 3, 2020, the applicable margin based on our current credit ratings was 1.5%. borrowings under our term loan b-4 due 2023 bear interest at a rate per annum, at our option, of either an adjusted libor (subject to a 0.0% floor) plus a margin of 1.75% or a base rate plus a margin of 0.75%. we have generally held a balance of fixed and variable rate debt. at july 3, 2020, 65% of the par value of our debt was at variable rates. to balance the portfolio and moderate our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates underlying our variable debt, we entered into pay-fixed interest rate swaps on $2.00 billion notional amount, which effectively converts a portion of our term loan to fixed rates through february 2023. as of july 3, 2020, we had $6.28 billion of variable rate debt. after giving effect to the $2.00 billion of interest rate swaps, we effectively had $4.28 billion of long-term debt subject to variations in interest rates and a one percent increase in the variable rate of interest would increase annual interest expense by $43 million. for additional information regarding our variable interest rate debt, see part ii, item 8, note 6, debt , of the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. 48 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 29 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk " --> item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk disclosure about foreign currency risk although the majority of the company transactions are in u.s. dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. the company purchases short-term, forward exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses denominated in foreign currencies. the purpose for entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on the results of operations. a majority of the increases or decreases in the company local currency operating expenses are offset by gains and losses on the hedges. the contracts have maturity dates that do not exceed three months. the company does not purchase short-term forward exchange contracts for trading purposes. historically, the company has focused on hedging its foreign currency risk related to the singapore dollar, the british pound sterling and the malaysian ringgit. with the establishment of currency controls and the prohibition of purchases or sales of the malaysian ringgit by offshore companies, the company discontinued hedging its malaysian ringgit currency risk in 1999. future hedging of this currency will depend on currency conditions in malaysia. as a result of the closure of the company singapore operations in 2000, the company has also discontinued its hedging program related to the singapore dollar. during the third quarter of 2002, the company purchased a manufacturing facility in thailand and began hedging the thai baht. 29 table of contents as of june 28, 2002, the company had outstanding the following purchased foreign currency forward exchange contracts (in millions, except average contract rate): june 28, 2002 contract weighted average unrealized amount contract rate gain (loss) (u.s. dollar equivalent amounts) foreign currency forward contracts: british pound sterling 2.0 1.52 thai baht 3.0 41.25 in 2002, 2001 and 2000, total realized transaction and forward exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to the consolidated financial statements and the carrying value of the contracts approximated fair value. based on historical experience, the company does not expect that a significant change in foreign exchange rates would materially affect the company consolidated financial statements. disclosure about other market risks fixed interest rate risk at june 28, 2002, the market value of the company 5.25% zero coupon convertible subordinated debentures due in 2018 was approximately $83.0 million, compared to the related book value of $86.2 million. the convertible debentures will be repurchased by the company, at the option of the holder, as of february 18, 2003, february 18, 2008, or february 18, 2013, or if there is a fundamental change (as defined in the debenture documents), at the issue price plus accrued original issue discount to the date of redemption. the payment on those dates, with the exception of a fundamental change, can be in cash, stock or any combination, at the company option. variable interest rate risk at the option of the company, borrowings under the senior credit facility would bear interest at either libor (with option periods of one to three months) or a base rate, plus a margin determined by the borrowing base. this is the only debt which does not have a fixed-rate of interest. at june 28, 2002, there were no borrowings outstanding under the facility. fair value risk the company owns approximately 1.0 million shares of vixel common stock. as of june 28, 2002, the market value of the vixel shares was $2.6 million. changes in the market value of the vixel shares are recorded as unrealized gains or losses in other comprehensive income (shareholders equity). as of june 28, 2002, a $2.6 million total accumulated unrealized gain has been recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income. if the company sells any portion of this common stock, the related unrealized gain or loss on the date of sale will become realized and reflected as a gain or loss in the company income statement. as a result of market conditions, the market value of the shares had declined from $2.6 million as of june 28, 2002 to $1.5 million as of september 20, 2002. due to market fluctuations, an additional decline in the stock fair market value could occur. 30 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk " --> item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk disclosure about foreign currency risk although the majority of the company transactions are in u.s. dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. the company purchases short-term, forward exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. the purpose of entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on the results of operations. the resulting impact from these hedge contracts is to offset a majority of the currency gains and losses in the company local currency operating expenses. the contract maturity dates do not exceed three months. the company does not purchase short-term forward exchange contracts for trading purposes. currently, the company focuses on hedging its foreign currency risk related to the thai baht, british pound sterling and the euro. as of june 27, 2003, the company had outstanding the following purchased foreign currency forward exchange contracts (in millions, except weighted average contract rate): june 27, 2003 contract weighted average unrealized amount contract rate gain (loss) foreign currency forward contracts: thai baht $ 31.0 41.73 british pound sterling $ 3.3 1.65 euro $ 1.5 1.15 in 2003, 2002 and 2001, total realized transaction and forward exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to the consolidated financial statements. based on historical experience, the company does not expect that a significant change in foreign exchange rates would materially affect the company consolidated financial statements. disclosure about other market risks fixed interest rate risk during 2003, the company redeemed its remaining outstanding 5.25% zero coupon convertible subordinated debentures due february 18, 2018 (the debentures ) and paid $88 million in cash and issued approximately 0.1 million shares of common stock. the aggregate principal amount at maturity was $194 million. 31 table of contents variable interest rate risk at the option of the company, borrowings under the senior credit facility would bear interest at either libor (with option periods of one to three months) or a base rate, plus a margin determined by the borrowing base. this is the only company borrowing facility which does not have a fixed-rate of interest. at june 27, 2003, there were no borrowings outstanding under the facility. fair value risk during 2003, the company sold all of its remaining shares of vixel corporation common stock resulting in a gain of $3.4 million. 32 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors declines in average selling prices ( asps ) in the hard drive industry adversely affect our operating results. the hard drive industry historically has experienced declining asps. our asps tend to decline when competitors lower prices as a result of decreased costs or to absorb excess capacity, liquidate excess inventories, restructure or attempt to gain market share. our asps also decline when there is a shift in the mix of product sales, and sales of lower priced products increase relative to those of higher priced products. if asps in the hard drive industry continue to decline, then our asps will also likely decline, which would adversely affect our operating results. if we fail to anticipate or timely respond to changes in the markets for hard drives, our operating results could be adversely affected. over the past few years the consumer market for computers has shifted significantly towards lower priced systems. if we are not able to continue to offer a competitively priced hard drive for the low-cost pc market, our share of that market will likely fall, which could harm our operating results. the market for hard drives is also fragmenting into a variety of devices and products. many industry analysts expect, as do we, that as content increasingly convert to digital technology from the older, analog technology, the technology of computers and consumer electronics will continue to converge, and hard drives will be found in many ce products other than computers. in addition, we expect that the consumer market for multi-media applications, including audio-video products, incorporating high capacity, and handheld consumer storage will continue to grow. however, because this market remains relatively new, accurate forecasts for future growth remain challenging. moreover, some of the devices, such as personal video recorders and digital video recorders, or other products outside of the ce market, may require attributes not currently offered in our products, resulting in a need to expend capital to develop new interfaces, form factors, technical specifications or hard drive features, increasing our overall operational expense without corresponding incremental revenue at this stage. if we are not successful in continuing to deploy our hard drive technology and expertise to develop new products for the emerging ce market, or if we are required to incur significant costs in developing such products, it may harm our operating results. 14 table of contents our prices and margins are subject to declines due to unpredictable end-user demand and oversupply of hard drives. demand for our hard drives depends on the demand for systems manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems. the demand for systems has been volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand for hard drives in any given period. as a result, the hard drive market has experienced periods of excess capacity which can lead to liquidation of excess inventories and intense price competition. if intense price competition occurs, we may be forced to lower prices sooner and more than expected, which could result in lower revenue and gross margins. our failure to accurately forecast market and customer demand for our products could adversely affect our business and financial results. the hard drive industry faces difficulties in accurately forecasting market and customer demand for its products. the variety and volume of products we manufacture is based in part on these forecasts. if our forecasts exceed actual market demand, or if market demand decreases significantly from our forecasts, then we could experience periods of product oversupply and price decreases, which could impact our financial performance. if our forecasts do not meet actual market demand, of if market demand increases significantly beyond our forecasts, then we may not be able to satisfy customer product needs, which could result in a loss of market share if our competitors are able to meet customer demands. we also use forecasts in making decisions regarding investment of our resources. for example, as the hard drive industry transitions from the parallel advanced technology attachment ( pata ) interface to the sata interface, we may invest more resources in the development of products using the sata interface. if our forecasts regarding the replacement of the pata interface with the sata interface are inaccurate, we may not have products available to meet our customers needs. in addition, although we receive forecasts from our customers, they are not obligated to purchase the forecasted amounts. in particular, sales volumes in the distribution channel are volatile and harder to predict than sales to our oem customers. we consider these forecasts in determining our component needs and our inventory requirements. if we fail to accurately forecast our customers product demands, we may have inadequate or excess inventory of our products or components, which could adversely affect our operating results. increases in areal density may outpace customers demand for storage capacity, which may lower the prices our customers are willing to pay for new products. historically, the industry has experienced periods of increased areal density growth rates. although in recent years there has been a decrease in the rate of areal density growth, if industry conditions return to periods of increased growth rates, the rate of increase in areal density may exceed the increase in our customers demand for aggregate storage capacity. furthermore, our customers demand for storage capacity may not continue to grow at current industry estimates as a result of developments in the regulation and enforcement of digital rights management or otherwise. these factors could lead to our customers storage capacity needs being satisfied with lower capacity hard drives at lower prices, thereby decreasing our revenue. as a result, even with increasing aggregate demand for storage capacity, our asps could decline, which could adversely affect our results of operations. a low cost structure is critical to our operating results and increased costs may adversely affect our operating margins. a low cost structure for our products, including critical components, labor and overhead, is critical to the success of our business and our operating results depend on our ability to maintain competitive cost structures on new and established products. if our competitors are able to achieve a lower cost structure for manufacturing hard drives, and we are unable to match their cost structure, we could be at a competitive disadvantage to those competitors. additionally, there are costs for certain commodity materials, an increase in which increases our costs of manufacturing and transporting hard drives and key components. for example, shortages of materials such as steel and aluminum increase our costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to find ways to mitigate these increased costs. the rising cost of oil also increases our costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to pass such increased costs through to our customers. 15 table of contents changes in product life cycles could adversely affect our financial results. product life cycles have been extending since the middle of calendar year 2002 due in large part to a decrease in the rate of hard drive areal density growth. however, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue. if longer product life cycles continue, we may need to develop new technologies or programs to reduce our costs on any particular product to maintain competitive pricing for that product. this may result in an increase in our overall expenses and a decrease in our gross margins, both of which could adversely affect our operating results. if product life cycles shorten, it may be more difficult to recover the cost of product development before the product becomes obsolete. our failure to recover the cost of product development in the future could adversely affect our operating results. if we fail to make the technical innovations necessary to continue to increase areal density, we may fail to remain competitive. new products in the hard drive market typically require higher areal densities than previous product generations, posing formidable technical and manufacturing challenges. higher areal densities require existing head and media technology to be improved or new technology developed to accommodate more data on a single disk. in addition, our introduction of new products during a technology transition increases the likelihood of unexpected quality concerns. our failure to bring high quality new products to market on time and at acceptable costs may put us at a competitive disadvantage to companies that achieve these results. a fundamental change in recording technology could result in significant increases in our operating expenses and could put us at a competitive disadvantage. currently the majority of the hard drive industry uses giant magnetoresistive head technology, which allows significantly higher storage capacities than the previously utilized thin-film head technology. however, the industry is developing and now implementing new recording technologies that may enable greater recording densities than currently available using magnetoresistive head technology, including perpendicular, current perpendicular-to-plane, and tunneling junction technology, each of which represent a significant change in fundamental recording technology. the industry is experiencing a fundamental shift in recording technology, this shift in technology is difficult to implement and historically, when the industry experiences a fundamental change in technology, any manufacturer that fails to successfully and timely adjust their designs and processes to accommodate the new technology, fails to remain competitive. there are some technologies, such as heat assisted magnetic recording, that, if they can be implemented by a competitor on a commercially viable basis, will represent a revolutionary recording technology that could put us at a competitive disadvantage. as a result, we could incur substantial costs in developing new technologies, such as, heads, media, and tools to remain competitive. if we fail to successfully implement these new technologies, or if we are significantly slower than our competitors at implementing new technologies, we may not be able to offer products with capacities that our customers desire. furthermore, as we attempt to develop and implement new technologies, we may become more dependent on suppliers to ensure our access to components that accommodate the new technology. for example, new recording technology requires changes in the manufacturing process of media, which may cause longer production times and reduce the overall availability of media in the industry. additionally, the new technology requires a greater degree of integration between heads and media which may lengthen our time of development of hard drives using this technology. these results would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. the difficulty of introducing hard drives with higher levels of areal density and the challenges of reducing other costs may impact our ability to achieve historical levels of cost reduction. storage capacity of the hard drive, as manufactured by us, is determined by the number of disks and each disk areal density. areal density is a measure of the amount of magnetic bits that can be stored on the recording surface of the disk. generally, the higher the areal density, the more information can be stored on a single platter. historically, we have been able to achieve a large percentage of cost reduction through increases in areal density. increases in areal density mean that the average drive we sell has fewer heads and disks for the same capacity and, therefore, may result in a lower component cost. however, because increases in areal density have become more difficult in the hard drive industry, such increases may require increases in component costs. in addition, other opportunities to reduce costs may not continue at historical rates. our inability to achieve cost reductions could adversely affect our operating results. 16 table of contents if we fail to maintain effective relationships with our major component suppliers, our supply of critical components may be at risk and our profitability could suffer. under our business model, we do not manufacture many of the component parts used in our hard drives, however, for some of our product families, we do make most of our own heads. as a result, the success of our products depends on our ability to gain access to and integrate parts that are best in class from reliable component suppliers. to do so, we must effectively manage our relationships with our major component suppliers. we must also effectively integrate different products from a variety of suppliers, each of which employs variations on technology, which can impact, for example, feasible combinations of heads and media components. in august 2003, we settled litigation with a supplier who previously was the sole source of read channel devices for our hard drives. as a result of the disputes that gave rise to the litigation, our profitability was at risk until another supplier read channel devices could be designed into our products. similar disputes with other strategic component suppliers could adversely affect our operating results. dependence on a limited number of qualified suppliers of components and manufacturing equipment could lead to delays, lost revenue or increased costs. certain components are available from a limited number of suppliers. because we depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain hard drive components and manufacturing equipment, each of the following could significantly harm our operating results: an increase in the cost of such components or equipment; an extended shortage of required components or equipment; consolidation of key suppliers; failure of a key supplier business process; or the failure of key suppliers to remain in business, adjust to market conditions, or to meet our quality, yield or production requirements. our future operating results may also depend substantially on our suppliers ability to timely qualify their components in our programs, and their ability to supply us with these components in sufficient volumes to meet our production requirements. a number of the components that we use are available from only a single or limited number of qualified outside suppliers, and may be used across multiple product lines. in addition, some of the components (or component types) used in our products are used in other devices, such as mobile telephones and digital cameras. if there is a significant simultaneous upswing in demand for such a component (or component type) from several high volume industries, resulting in a supply reduction, or a component is otherwise in short supply, or if a supplier fails to qualify or has a quality issue with a component, we may experience delays or increased costs in obtaining that component. for example, the hard drive industry is currently facing a tightness in the availability of media (rotating magnetic disks) components, and there are currently only three independent suppliers of aluminum media and three independent suppliers of glass media in the market. several of our competitors have an internal supply of media therefore allowing them to better withstand a shortage of media while, if we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of media, or other necessary components, we may experience production delays which could cause us loss of revenue. if a component becomes unavailable, we could suffer significant loss of revenue. in addition, certain equipment we use in our manufacturing or testing processes is available only from a limited number of suppliers. some of this equipment uses materials that at times could be in short supply. if these materials are not available, or are not available in the quantities we require for our manufacturing and testing processes, our ability to manufacture our products could be impacted, and we could suffer significant loss of revenue. contractual commitments with component suppliers may result in us paying increased charges and cash advances for such components. to reduce the risk of component shortages, we attempt to provide significant lead times when buying these components. as a result, we may be subject to cancellation charges if we cancel orders, which may occur when we make technology transitions or when our component needs change. in addition, we have entered into contractual commitments with component suppliers, such as suppliers of media, and may enter into contractual commitments with other 17 table of contents component suppliers, in an effort to increase and stabilize the supply of those components, and enable us to purchase such components at favorable prices. some of these commitments require or may require us to buy a substantial number of components from the supplier or make significant cash advances to the supplier, however these commitments may not result in a satisfactory increase or stabilization of the supply of such components. we have high-volume hard drive manufacturing facilities in malaysia and thailand, which subjects us to the risk of damage or loss of any of these facilities and localized risks to personnel in these locations. our hard drives are manufactured in facilities in malaysia and thailand. a fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster, condition or event such as a power outage that adversely affects any of these facilities or our ability to manufacture could limit the total volume of hard drives we are able to manufacture and result in a loss of sales and revenue and harm our operating results. similarly, a localized health risk affecting our personnel in malaysia and thailand, such as a new pandemic influenza in asia pacific, could impair the total volume of hard drives that we are able to manufacture. our head manufacturing operations include a single wafer fabrication facility in fremont, california and a single head gimbal/head stack assembly facility in bang pa-in, thailand, which subjects us to substantial risk of damage or loss if operations at either of these facilities are disrupted. as we have previously discussed in public statements, our business plan presently contemplates that we plan to design and manufacture approximately 70% of the heads required for the hard drives we manufacture. we fabricate wafers in our fremont, california facility, and the wafers are then sent to our thailand facility for slider fabrication/wafer slicing, hga assembly and testing, and hsa assembly and testing. a fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster, condition or event such as a power outage that adversely affects our facilities in fremont, california or bang pa-in, thailand would significantly affect our supply of heads and limit our ability to manufacture hard drives which would result in a substantial loss of sales and revenue and a substantial harm to our operating results. our head manufacturing operations may result in additional costs and risks to our business. our vertical integration of head manufacturing resulted in a fundamental change in our operating structure, as we now manufacture heads for use in many of the hard drives we manufacture. consequently, we make more capital investments than we would if we were not vertically integrated and carry a higher percentage of fixed costs than assumed in our prior financial business model. if the overall level of production decreases for any reason, and we are unable to reduce our fixed costs to match sales, our head manufacturing assets may face under-utilization that may impact our results of operations. we are therefore subject to additional risks related to overall asset utilization, including the need to operate at high levels of utilization to drive competitive costs, and the need for assured supply of components, especially hard drive media, that is optimized to work with our heads. in addition, we may incur additional risks, including: insufficient head sources if we are unable to manufacture a sufficient supply of heads to satisfy our needs; third party head suppliers may not continue to do business with us or may not do business with us on the same terms and conditions we have previously enjoyed; claims that our manufacturing of heads may infringe certain intellectual property rights of other companies; and difficulties locating suitable manufacturing equipment for our head manufacturing processes and replacement parts for such equipment. if we do not adequately address the challenges related to our head manufacturing operations, our ongoing operations could be disrupted, resulting in a decrease in our revenue or profit margins and negatively impacting our operating results. 18 table of contents our operating results may be adversely affected if we fail to optimize the overall quality, time-to-market and time-to-volume of new and established products. to achieve consistent success with our customers who manufacture computers, systems and ce products, we must balance several key attributes such as time-to-market, time-to-volume, quality, cost, service, price and a broad product portfolio. if we fail to: maintain overall quality of products on new and established programs; produce sufficient quantities of products at the capacities our customers demand while managing the integration of new and established technologies; develop and qualify new products that have changes in overall specifications or features that our customers may require for their business needs; obtain commitments from our customers to qualify new products, redesigns of current products, or new components in our existing products; qualify these products with key customers on a timely basis by meeting all of our customers needs for performance, quality and features; maintain an adequate supply of components required to manufacture our products; maintain the manufacturing capability to quickly change our product mix between different capacities, form factors and spin speeds in response to changes in customers product demands; or consistently meet stated quality requirements on delivered products, our operating results could be adversely affected. if we are unable to timely and cost-effectively develop heads with leading technology and overall quality, our ability to sell our products may be significantly diminished, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. under our business plan, we are developing and manufacturing a substantial portion of the heads used in some of the product families of hard drives we manufacture. consequently, we are more dependent upon our own development and execution efforts and less able to take advantage of head technologies developed by other head manufacturers. technology transition for head designs is critical to increasing our volume production of heads. there can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful in timely and cost-effectively developing and manufacturing heads for products using future technologies. we also may not effectively transition our head design and head technology to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields using the technologies necessary to satisfy our customers product needs, or we may encounter quality problems with the heads we manufacture. in addition, we may not have access to external sources of supply without incurring substantial costs. for example, we recently began using perpendicular recording heads in certain of our products. we face various challenges in ramping the manufacturing volume of these products and if we do not adequately address these challenges, or if we encounter quality problems with the heads we manufacture for these products, our continued shipment of these products may be delayed, impairing our ability to realize revenue from these products. if we fail to qualify our products with our customers, they may not purchase any units of a particular product line, which would have a significant adverse impact on our sales. we regularly engage in new product qualification with our customers. to be considered for qualification, we must be among the leaders in time-to-market with our new products. once a product is accepted for qualification testing, failures or delays in the qualification process can result in our losing sales to that customer until the next generation of products is introduced. the effect of missing a product qualification opportunity is magnified by the limited number of high volume oems, which continue to consolidate their share of the desktop, mobile and ce markets. if product life cycles continue to be extended due to a decrease in the rate of areal density growth, we may have a significantly longer period to wait before we have an opportunity to qualify a new product with a customer, which could harm our competitive position. these risks are increased because we expect cost improvements and competitive pressures to result in declining gross margins on our current generation products. 19 table of contents we are subject to risks related to product defects, which could result in product recalls and could subject us to warranty claims in excess of our warranty provisions or which are greater than anticipated due to the unenforceability of liability limitations. we warrant our products for up to five years. we test our hard drives in our manufacturing facilities through a variety of means. however, there can be no assurance that our testing will reveal latent defects in our products, which may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market. accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will occur, which could require a product recall. product recalls can be expensive to implement and, if a product recall occurs during the product warranty period, we may be required to replace the defective product. in addition, a product recall may damage our relationship with our customers, and we may lose market share with our customers, including our oem customers. our standard warranties contain limits on damages and exclusions of liability for consequential damages and for misuse, improper installation, alteration, accident or mishandling while in the possession of someone other than us. we record an accrual for estimated warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. we may incur additional operating expenses if our warranty provision does not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues related to defects in our products. if these additional expenses are significant, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. current or future competitors may gain a technology advantage or develop an advantageous cost structure that we cannot match. it may be possible for our current or future competitors to gain an advantage in product technology, manufacturing technology, or process technology, which may allow them to offer products or services that have a significant advantage over the products and services that we offer. advantages could be in capacity, performance, reliability, serviceability, or other attributes. higher capacity storage needs have typically been better served by magnetic hard drives than flash memory as hard drive manufacturers can offer better value at high capacities, while lower capacity needs have been successfully served by solid state storage such as flash memory technology. advances in magnetic, optical, semiconductor or other data storage technologies could result in competitive products that have better performance or lower cost per unit of capacity than our products. if we fail to be cost competitive against flash memory, we could be at a competitive disadvantage to competitors using semiconductor technology. for example, flash memory recently achieved improvements in their cost structure and we believe reduced their pricing, thus more effectively competing with our 1.0-inch hard drive product. if we are unable to lower the cost structure of future generations of sub-2.5-inch form factor hard drive products through technology advances such as increased storage capacity, this product category could be at a competitive disadvantage to flash technology. further industry consolidation could provide competitive advantages to our competitors. the hard drive industry has experienced consolidation over the past several years, including the recent acquisition of maxtor corporation by seagate technology. consolidation by our competitors may enhance their capacity, abilities and resources and lower their cost structure, causing us to be at a competitive disadvantage. additionally, continued industry consolidation may lead to uncertainty in areas such as component availability, which could negatively impact our cost structure. sales in the distribution channel are important to our business, and if we fail to maintain brand preference with our distributors or if distribution markets for hard drives weaken, our operating results could suffer. our distribution customers typically sell to small computer manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators and other resellers. we face significant competition in this channel as a result of limited product qualification programs and a significant focus on price and availability of product. if we fail to remain competitive in terms of our technology, quality, service and support, our distribution customers may favor our competitors, and our operating results could suffer. we also face significant risk in the distribution market for hard drives. if the distribution market weakens as a result of a slowing pc growth rate, technology transitions or a significant change in consumer buying preference from white box to branded pcs, or we experience significant price declines due to oversupply in the distribution channel, then our operating results would be adversely affected. 20 table of contents the hard drive industry is highly competitive and can be characterized by significant shifts in market share among the major competitors. the price of hard drives has fallen over time due to increases in supply, cost reductions, technological advances and price reductions by competitors seeking to liquidate excess inventories or attempting to gain market share. in addition, rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and profitability of sales of existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence. we also face competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies like flash memory. these factors, taken together, may result in significant shifts in market share among the industry major participants. in addition, product recalls can lead to a loss of market share, which could adversely affect our operating results. some of our competitors with diversified business units outside the hard drive industry may be able to sell disk drives at lower margins that we cannot match. some of our competitors earn a significant portion of their revenue from business units outside the hard drive industry. because they do not depend solely on sales of hard drives to achieve profitability, they may be able to sell hard drives at lower margins and operate their hard drive business unit at a loss while still remaining profitable overall. in addition, if these competitors can increase sales of non-hard drive products to the same customers, they may benefit from selling their hard drives at low margins. our results of operations may be adversely affected if we can not successfully compete with these companies. if we do not successfully expand into new hard drive markets, our business may suffer. to remain a significant supplier of hard drives, we will need to offer a broad range of hard drive products to our customers. we currently offer a variety of 3.5-inch hard drives for the desktop, enterprise, ce and external storage markets, and we also offer 2.5-inch form factor hard drives for the mobile, ce and external storage markets. however, demand for hard drives may shift to products in smaller other form factors, which our competitors may already offer. we recently entered into the sub-2.5-inch hard drive market with a 1.0-inch hard drive product, however the demand for the 1.0-inch form factor drive is significantly less than our initial estimates of this market, thus impairing our ability to realize revenue from this product. in addition, the desktop and enterprise markets are transitioning from parallel interfaces, such as pata and scsi, to serial interfaces, such as sata and sas, to handle higher data transfer rates. we currently offer sata products; however, the transition of technology and the introduction of new products are challenging and create risks. for example, acceptance of the sata interface may not continue to grow, or customers may choose to purchase alternative interfaces that may not be compatible with future generations of sata hard drives. moreover, our customers may require new sata features that we may not be able to deliver in a timely and cost effective manner. while we continue to develop new products and look to expand into other hard drive markets, the success of our new product introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp, market acceptance, effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, and the risk that our new products may have quality problems or other defects in the early stages of introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products. further, we need to identify how any of the hard drive markets that we are expanding into may have different characteristics from the desktop market, such as, demand volume growth rates, demand seasonality, product generations development rates, customer concentrations, and cost and performance requirements, and we must properly address these differences. if we fail to successfully develop and manufacture new products and expand into new hard drive markets, customers may decrease the amount of our products that they purchase, and we may lose business to our competitors who offer these products. expanding into new hard drive markets exposes our business to different seasonal demand cycles, which in turn could adversely affect our operating results. the ce markets that we are attempting to expand into have different seasonal pricing and volume demand cycles as compared to the pc market. by expanding into these markets, we become exposed to seasonal fluctuations that are different than, and in addition to, those of the pc market. for example, because the primary customer for products such as consumer handheld devices and game consoles are individual consumers, these markets experience a dramatic increase in 21 table of contents demand during the winter holiday season. if we do not properly adjust our supply to new demand cycles such as this, we risk having excess inventory during periods of low demand and insufficient inventory during periods of high demand, therefore harming our operating results. if we do not successfully continue to expand into the mobile market, our business may suffer. we began shipping 2.5-inch form factor hard drives for the mobile market during calendar year 2004. although many of our customers who purchase 3.5-inch form factor hard drives also purchase the 2.5-inch form factor drives, the markets are characterized by some different competitors and different overall requirements. if we are unable to adapt to these differences and meet the new requirements, we would have a competitive disadvantage to companies that are successful in this regard, and our business and financial results could suffer. in addition, if we continue to incur significant costs in manufacturing and selling the 2.5-inch hard drives, and if we are unable to recover those costs from sales of the products, then we may not be able to compete successfully in this market and our operating results may suffer. selling to the retail market is an important part of our business, and if we fail to maintain and grow our market share or gain market acceptance of our branded products, our operating results could suffer. we sell our branded products directly to a select group of major retailers, for example, computer superstores and ce stores, and authorize sales through distributors to other retailers and online resellers. our current retail customer base is primarily in the united states, canada and europe. we are facing increased competition from other companies for shelf space at major retailers, which could result in lower revenues. if we fail to successfully maintain a customer preference for western digital brand products or fail to successfully expand into multiple channels, our operating results may be adversely affected. in certain markets, we are trying to grow market share, and in the process may face strong competition, which could result in lower gross margins. we will continue to introduce new products in the retail market that incorporate our disk drives. there can be no assurance that these products gain market acceptance, and if they do not, our operating results could suffer. loss of market share with or by a key customer could harm our operating results. a majority of our revenue comes from about a dozen customers. for example, during 2006, one customer, dell, accounted for more than 12% of our revenue, and sales to our top 10 customers, including dell, accounted for 47% of revenue. these customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial demands on us, including demands on product pricing and on contractual terms, which often results in the allocation of risk to us as the supplier. even if we successfully qualify a product with a customer, the customer generally is not obligated to purchase any minimum volume of products from us and may be able to cancel an order or terminate its relationship with us at any time. our ability to maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is essential to our future performance. if we lose a key customer, if any of our key customers reduce their orders of our products or require us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, if a customer is acquired by one of our competitors or if a key customer suffers financial hardship then our operating results would likely be harmed. in addition, if customer pressures require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, we could decide not to sell our products to a particular customer, which could result in a decrease in our revenue. we may be unable to retain our key personnel and skilled employees. our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key personnel and skilled employees, many of whom would be extremely difficult to replace. worldwide competition for skilled employees in the hard drive industry is intense. volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key personnel or skilled employees who have received equity compensation. if we are unable to retain our existing key personnel or skilled employees, or hire and integrate new key personnel or skilled employees, or if we fail to implement a succession plan to prepare qualified individuals to join us upon the departure of a member of our key personnel, our operating results would likely be harmed. 22 table of contents manufacturing and marketing our products abroad subjects us to numerous risks. we are subject to risks associated with our foreign manufacturing operations and foreign marketing efforts, including: obtaining requisite united states of america and foreign governmental permits and approvals; currency exchange rate fluctuations or restrictions; political instability and civil unrest; limited transportation availability, delays, and extended time required for shipping, which risks may be compounded in periods of price declines; higher freight rates; labor problems; trade restrictions or higher tariffs; exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations; increasing labor and overhead costs; and loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities. terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business and operating results. the continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility have created uncertainty in the financial and insurance markets and have significantly increased the political, economic and social instability in some of the geographic areas in which we operate. acts of terrorism, either domestically or abroad, could create further uncertainties and instability. to the extent this results in disruption or delays of our manufacturing capabilities or shipments of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. we face litigation risks relating to our historical stock option grants that could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business. several purported derivative actions were filed nominally on our behalf against certain of our current and former directors and officers in connection with our historical stock option granting practices. see part i, item 3, legal proceedings for a more detailed description of these proceedings. we are and may in the future be subject to other litigation or government investigations arising in connection with such option practices. these proceedings may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations, and the outcome of any such proceeding is difficult to predict. the defense of such lawsuits or investigations could result in significant expense and the diversion of our management time and attention from the operation of our business, which could impede our ability to achieve our business objectives. some or all of the amount we may be required to pay to defend or to satisfy a judgment or settlement of any or all of these proceedings may not be covered by insurance. under indemnification agreements we have entered into with our current and former officers and directors, we are required to indemnify them, and advance expenses to them, in connection with their participation in proceedings arising out of their service to us. these payments may be material. the nature of our business and our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk of significant litigation. the hard drive industry has been characterized by significant litigation. this includes litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights, product liability claims and other types of litigation. litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. moreover, the results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may result in adverse rulings or decisions. we may enter into settlements or be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 23 table of contents we evaluate notices of alleged patent infringement and notices of patents from patent holders that we receive from time to time. if claims or actions are asserted against us, we may be required to obtain a license or cross-license, modify our existing technology or design a new non-infringing technology. such licenses or design modifications can be extremely costly. in addition, we may decide to settle a claim or action against us, which settlement could be costly. we may also be liable for any past infringement. if there is an adverse ruling against us in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued barring production or sale of any infringing product. it could also result in a damage award equal to a reasonable royalty or lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement, treble damages. any of these results would likely increase our costs and harm our operating results. our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients of our business could be copied by competitors. our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary nature of our technology, including non-patentable intellectual property such as our process technology. despite safeguards, to the extent that a competitor is able to reproduce or otherwise capitalize on our technology, it may be difficult, expensive or impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. also, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in addition to patent protection of intellectual property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. we rely upon employee, consultant and vendor non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. however, any of our registered or unregistered intellectual property rights may be challenged or exploited by others in the industry, which might harm our operating results. environmental regulation costs could harm our operating results. we may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of certain products. such laws and regulations have been passed in several jurisdictions in which we operate, including various european union member countries. for example, the european union has enacted the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (rohs) and the waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) directives. rohs prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, in certain products, including hard drives, put on the market after july 1, 2006. the weee directive obligates parties that place electrical and electronic equipment onto the market in the eu to put a clearly identifiable mark on the equipment, register with and report to eu member countries regarding distribution of the equipment, and provide a mechanism to take-back and properly dispose of the equipment. each eu member country has enacted, or is expected to soon enact, legislation clarifying what is and what is not covered by the weee directive in that country. however, there is still some uncertainty in certain eu countries as to which party involved in the manufacture, distribution and sale of electronic equipment will be ultimately responsible for registration, reporting and disposal. similar legislation may be enacted in other locations where we manufacture or sell our products, such as asia. we will need to ensure that we comply with such laws and regulations as they are enacted, and that our component suppliers also timely comply with such laws and regulations. if we fail to timely comply with the legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our products, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in connection with our compliance with such environmental laws and regulations, we could incur substantial costs and be subject to disruptions to our operations and logistics. in addition, if we were found to be in violation of these laws, we could be subject to governmental fines and liability to our customers. if we have to make significant capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws, or if we are subject to significant expenses in connection with a violation of these laws, our financial condition or operating results could suffer. fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations may negatively affect our operating results. because we manufacture our products abroad, our operating costs are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. further fluctuations in the exchange rate of the thai baht and of the malaysian ringgit may negatively impact our operating results. 24 table of contents the thai baht is a free floating currency while the malaysian ringgit exchange rate policy recently defined by the malaysian government is one of a managed float. we have attempted to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into short-term, forward contracts. however, these contracts do not cover our full exposure and can be canceled by the issuer if currency controls are put in place. currently, we hedge the thai baht, euro and british pound sterling with forward contracts. if the u.s. dollar exhibits sustained weakness against most foreign currencies, the u.s. dollar equivalents of unhedged manufacturing costs could increase because a significant portion of our production costs are foreign-currency denominated. conversely, there would not be an offsetting impact to revenues since revenues are substantially u.s. dollar denominated. increases in our customers credit risk could result in credit losses and an increase in our operating costs. some of our oem customers have adopted a subcontractor model that requires us to contract directly with companies that provide manufacturing services to our oem customers. because these subcontractors are generally not as well capitalized as our direct oem customers, this subcontractor model exposes us to increased credit risks. our agreements with our oem customers may not permit us to increase our product prices to alleviate this increased credit risk. additionally, as we attempt to expand our oem and distribution channel sales into emerging economies such as brazil, russia, india and china, the customers in these regions may have a relatively short operating history, making it more difficult for us to accurately access the associated credit risks. any credit losses we may suffer as a result of these increased risks, or as a result of credit losses from any significant customer, would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. inaccurate projections of demand for our product can cause large fluctuations in our quarterly results. we often ship a high percentage of our total quarterly sales in the third month of the quarter, which makes it difficult for us to forecast our financial results before the end of the quarter. in addition, our quarterly projections and results may be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a number of other factors including: the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major customers; our product mix; changes in the prices of our products; manufacturing delays or interruptions; acceptance by customers of competing products in lieu of our products; variations in the cost of components for our products; limited availability of components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; competition and consolidation in the data storage industry; seasonal and other fluctuations in demand for pcs often due to technological advances; and availability and rates of transportation. rapidly changing conditions in the hard drive industry make it difficult to predict actual results. we have made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting. the highly technical nature of our products and the rapidly changing market conditions with which we deal means that actual results may differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions. these changes have impacted our financial results in the past and may continue to do so in the future. key estimates and assumptions for us include: accruals for warranty costs related to product defects; 25 table of contents price protection adjustments and other sales promotions and allowances on products sold to retailers, resellers and distributors; inventory adjustments for write-down of inventories to lower of cost or market value (net realizable value); reserves for doubtful accounts; accruals for product returns; accruals for litigation and other contingencies; and reserves for deferred tax assets. the market price of our common stock is volatile. the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, extremely volatile. factors such as the following may significantly affect the market price of our common stock: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors which may decrease the volume and profitability of sales of our existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence; new products introduced by us or our competitors; periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price erosion resulting from competitive pressures or industry consolidation; developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; conditions and trends in the hard drive, computer, data and content management, storage and communication industries; and changes in financial estimates by securities analysts relating specifically to us or the hard drive industry in general. in addition, general economic conditions may cause the stock market to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations from time to time that particularly affect the stock prices of many high technology companies. these fluctuations often appear to be unrelated to the operating performance of the companies. securities class action lawsuits are often brought against companies after periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. a number of such suits have been filed against us in the past, and should any new lawsuits be filed, such matters could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources and management attention. we may be unable to raise future capital through debt or equity financing. due to the risks described herein, in the future we may be unable to maintain adequate financial resources for capital expenditures, expansion or acquisition activity, working capital and research and development. we have a credit facility which matures on september 20, 2009. if we decide to increase or accelerate our capital expenditures or research and development efforts, or if results of operations do not meet our expectations, we could require additional debt or equity financing. however, we cannot ensure that additional financing will be available to us or available on acceptable terms. an equity financing could also be dilutive to our existing stockholders. if our internal controls are found to be ineffective, our financial results or our stock price may be adversely affected. our evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of june 30, 2006, in compliance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective. we believe that we currently have 26 table of contents adequate internal control procedures in place for future periods; however, if our internal controls are found to be ineffective, our financial results or our stock price may be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk disclosure about foreign currency risk although the majority of our transactions are in u.s. dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. we purchase short-term, forward exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. the purpose of entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. the contract maturity dates do not exceed six months. we do not purchase short-term forward exchange contracts for trading purposes. currently, we focus on hedging our foreign currency risk related to the thai baht, the euro and the british pound sterling. thai baht contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. all other contracts are designated as fair value hedges. see part ii, item 8, note 1 in the notes to consolidated financial statements, included in this annual report on form 10-k. 42 table of contents as of june 30, 2006, we had outstanding the following purchased foreign currency forward exchange contracts (in millions, except weighted average contract rate): contract weighted average unrealized amount contract rate* gain foreign currency forward contracts: thai baht $ 261.5 38.34 $ 1.3 euro $ 1.1 0.78 british pound sterling $ 1.3 0.54 * expressed in units of foreign currency per dollar. in 2006, 2005 and 2004, total realized transaction and forward exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to our consolidated financial statements. disclosure about other market risks variable interest rate risk at our option, borrowings under the senior credit facility would bear interest at either libor (with option periods of one to three months) or a base rate, plus a margin. if libor or the base rate increases, our interest payments would also increase. at june 30, 2006, we had a $25 million term loan outstanding under the senior credit facility. a one percent increase in the variable rate of interest on the senior credit facility would increase interest expense by approximately $0.2 million annually. 43 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors declines in average selling prices ( asps ) in the hard drive industry adversely affect our operating results. the hard drive industry historically has experienced declining asps. our asps tend to decline when competitors lower prices as a result of decreased costs or to absorb excess capacity, liquidate excess inventories, restructure or attempt to gain market share. our asps also decline when there is a shift in the mix of product sales, and sales of lower priced products increase relative to those of higher priced products. if asps in the hard drive industry continue to decline, then our asps will also likely decline, which would adversely affect our operating results. if we fail to anticipate or timely respond to changes in the markets for hard drives, our operating results could be adversely affected. over the past few years the consumer market for computers has shifted significantly towards lower priced systems. if we are not able to continue to offer a competitively priced hard drive for the low-cost pc market, our share of that market will likely fall, which could harm our operating results. the market for hard drives is also fragmenting into a variety of devices and products. many industry analysts expect, as do we, that as content increasingly converts to digital technology from the older, analog technology, the technology of computers and consumer electronics will continue to converge, and hard drives will be found in many ce products other than computers. in addition, we expect that the consumer market for multi-media applications, including audio-video products, incorporating high capacity, and handheld consumer storage will continue to grow. however, because this market remains relatively new, accurate forecasts for future growth remain challenging. moreover, some devices, such as personal video recorders and digital video recorders, or some new pc operating systems which allow greater consumer choice in levels of functionality, therefore allowing for greater market differentiation, may require attributes not currently offered in our products, resulting in a need to expend capital to develop new interfaces, form factors, technical specifications or hard drive features, increasing our overall operational expense without corresponding incremental revenue at this stage. if we are not successful in continuing to deploy our hard drive technology and expertise to develop new products for the emerging ce market, or if we are required to incur significant costs in developing such products, it may harm our operating results. our prices and margins are subject to declines due to unpredictable end-user demand and oversupply of hard drives. demand for our hard drives depends on the demand for systems manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems. the demand for systems has been volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand for hard drives in any given period. as a result, the hard drive market has experienced periods of excess capacity which can lead to liquidation of excess inventories and intense price competition. if intense price competition occurs, we may be forced to lower prices sooner and more than expected, which could result in lower revenue and gross margins. our failure to accurately forecast market and customer demand for our products could adversely affect our business and financial results. the hard drive industry faces difficulties in accurately forecasting market and customer demand for its products. the variety and volume of products we manufacture is based in part on these forecasts. if our forecasts exceed actual market demand, or if market demand decreases significantly from our forecasts, then we could experience periods of product oversupply and price decreases, which could impact our financial performance. if our forecasts do not meet actual market demand, of if market demand increases significantly beyond our forecasts, then we may not be able to satisfy customer product needs, which could result in a loss of market share if our competitors are able to meet customer demands. we also use forecasts in making decisions regarding investment of our resources. for example, as the hard drive industry transitions from the parallel advanced technology attachment ( pata ) interface to the sata interface, we may invest more resources in the development of products using the sata interface. if our forecasts regarding the replacement of the pata interface with the sata interface are inaccurate, we may not have products available to meet our customers needs. 16 table of contents in addition, although we receive forecasts from our customers, they are not obligated to purchase the forecasted amounts. in particular, sales volumes in the distribution channel are volatile and harder to predict than sales to our oem or odm customers. we consider these forecasts in determining our component needs and our inventory requirements. if we fail to accurately forecast our customers product demands, we may have inadequate or excess inventory of our products or components, which could adversely affect our operating results. increases in areal density may outpace customers demand for storage capacity, which may lower the prices our customers are willing to pay for new products. historically, the industry has experienced periods of variable areal density growth rates. when the rate of areal density growth increases, the rate of increase may exceed the increase in our customers demand for aggregate storage capacity. furthermore, our customers demand for storage capacity may not continue to grow at current industry estimates as a result of developments in the regulation and enforcement of digital rights management or otherwise. these factors could lead to our customers storage capacity needs being satisfied with lower capacity hard drives at lower prices, thereby decreasing our revenue. as a result, even with increasing aggregate demand for storage capacity, our asps could decline, which could adversely affect our results of operations. a low cost structure is critical to our operating results and increased costs may adversely affect our operating margin. a low cost structure for our products, including critical components, labor and overhead, is critical to the success of our business and our operating results depend on our ability to maintain competitive cost structures on new and established products. if our competitors are able to achieve a lower cost structure for manufacturing hard drives, and we are unable to match their cost structure, we could be at a competitive disadvantage to those competitors. shortages of commodity materials, or use by other industries of materials used in the hard drive industry, may increase our cost structure. there are costs for certain commodity materials, an increase in which increases our costs of manufacturing and transporting hard drives and key components. for example, shortages of materials such as steel, aluminum and precious metals increase our costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to find ways to mitigate these increased costs. the variability in the cost of oil also affects our costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to pass increased costs through to our customers. additionally, there are certain limited supply materials, such as raw materials like nickel and steel as well as metals like neodymium and ruthenium, which are used in the manufacturing of hard drive components. if other high volume industry demands for any of these materials increase, our costs may increase which could have an adverse affect on our operating margins. changes in product life cycles could adversely affect our financial results. product life cycles lengthened over the four years beginning in calendar year 2002 due in large part to a decrease in the rate of hard drive areal density growth. however, with the use of perpendicular recording in hard drives beginning in calendar year 2006, we anticipate that the life cycle of these products may shorten. if product life cycles lengthen, we may need to develop new technologies or programs to reduce our costs on any particular product to maintain competitive pricing for that product. this may result in an increase in our overall expenses and a decrease in our gross margins, both of which could adversely affect our operating results. if product life cycles shorten, it may be more difficult to recover the cost of product development before the product becomes obsolete. our failure to recover the cost of product development in the future could adversely affect our operating results. if we fail to make the technical innovations necessary to continue to increase areal density, we may fail to remain competitive. new products in the hard drive market typically require higher areal densities than previous product generations, posing formidable technical and manufacturing challenges. higher areal densities require existing head and media technology to be improved or new technology developed to accommodate more data on a single disk. in addition, our introduction of new products during a technology transition increases the likelihood of unexpected quality concerns. our 17 table of contents failure to bring high quality new products to market on time and at acceptable costs may put us at a competitive disadvantage to companies that achieve these results. a fundamental change in recording technology could result in significant increases in our operating expenses and could put us at a competitive disadvantage. the industry is developing and now implementing new recording technologies that enable greater recording densities than currently available using magnetoresistive head technology, including perpendicular and tunneling junction technology, each of which represent a significant change in fundamental recording technology. this shift in technology is difficult to implement and historically, when the industry experiences a fundamental change in technology, any manufacturer that fails to successfully and timely adjust their designs and processes to accommodate the new technology, fails to remain competitive. there are some technologies, such as current perpendicular-to-plane and heat assisted magnetic recording, that, if they can be implemented by a competitor on a commercially viable basis, will represent a revolutionary recording technology that could put us at a competitive disadvantage. as a result of these technology shifts, we could incur substantial costs in developing new technologies, such as, heads, media, and tools to remain competitive. if we fail to successfully implement these new technologies, or if we are significantly slower than our competitors at implementing new technologies, we may not be able to offer products with capacities that our customers desire. for example, new recording technology requires changes in the manufacturing process of media, which may cause longer production times and reduce the overall availability of media in the industry. additionally, the new technology requires a greater degree of integration between heads and media which may lengthen our time of development of hard drives using this technology. furthermore, as we attempt to develop and implement new technologies, we may become more dependent on suppliers to ensure our access to components that accommodate the new technology. these results would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. the difficulty of introducing hard drives with higher levels of areal density and the challenges of reducing other costs may impact our ability to achieve historical levels of cost reduction. storage capacity of the hard drive, as manufactured by us, is determined by the number of disks and each disk areal density. areal density is a measure of the amount of magnetic bits that can be stored on the recording surface of the disk. generally, the higher the areal density, the more information can be stored on a single platter. historically, we have been able to achieve a large percentage of cost reduction through increases in areal density. increases in areal density mean that the average drive we sell has fewer heads and disks for the same capacity and, therefore, may result in a lower component cost. however, because increasing areal density has become more difficult in the hard drive industry, such increases may require increases in component costs and other opportunities to reduce costs may not continue at historical rates. additionally, increases in areal density may require us to make further capital expenditures on items such as new testing equipment needed as a result of an increased number of gb per platter. our inability to achieve cost reductions could adversely affect our operating results. if we fail to maintain effective relationships with our major component suppliers, our supply of critical components may be at risk and our profitability could suffer. under our business model, we do not manufacture many of the component parts used in our hard drives, however, for some of our product families, we do make most of our own heads, and we intend to make most of our own media following our planned acquisition of komag. as a result, the success of our products depends on our ability to gain access to and integrate parts that are best in class from reliable component suppliers. to do so, we must effectively manage our relationships with our major component suppliers. we must also effectively integrate different products from a variety of suppliers, each of which employs variations on technology, which can impact, for example, feasible combinations of heads and media components. in august 2003, we settled litigation with a supplier who previously was the sole source of read channel devices for our hard drives. as a result of the disputes that gave rise to the litigation, our profitability was at risk until another supplier read channel devices could be designed into our products. similar disputes with other strategic component suppliers could adversely affect our operating results. 18 table of contents dependence on a limited number of qualified suppliers of components and manufacturing equipment could lead to delays, lost revenue or increased costs. certain components are available from a limited number of suppliers. because we depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain hard drive components and manufacturing equipment, each of the following could significantly harm our operating results: an increase in the cost of such components or equipment; an extended shortage of required components or equipment; consolidation of key suppliers, such as the acquisition of brilliant manufacturing limited by nidec corporation, the acquisition of agere systems inc. by lsi logic corporation, and the planned acquisition of alps electric co. ltd. magnetic device division assets and related intellectual property by tdk corp; failure of a key supplier business process; or the failure of key suppliers to remain in business, to remain independent merchant suppliers, to adjust to market conditions, or to meet our quality, yield or production requirements. our future operating results may also depend substantially on our suppliers ability to timely qualify their components in our programs, and their ability to supply us with these components in sufficient volumes to meet our production requirements. a number of the components that we use are available from only a single or limited number of qualified outside suppliers, and may be used across multiple product lines. in addition, some of the components (or component types) used in our products are used in other devices, such as mobile telephones and digital cameras. if there is a significant simultaneous upswing in demand for such a component (or component type) from several high volume industries, resulting in a supply reduction, or a component is otherwise in short supply, or if a supplier fails to qualify or has a quality issue with a component, we may experience delays or increased costs in obtaining that component. for example, in the last year the hard drive industry faced a tightness in the availability of materials used in the manufacture of magnetic components, such as heads, media and magnets. if we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of materials used in the manufacture of magnetic components, or other necessary components, we may experience production delays which could cause us loss of revenue. if a component becomes unavailable, we could suffer significant loss of revenue. in addition, certain equipment we use in our manufacturing or testing processes is available only from a limited number of suppliers. some of this equipment uses materials that at times could be in short supply. if these materials are not available, or are not available in the quantities we require for our manufacturing and testing processes, our ability to manufacture our products could be impacted, and we could suffer significant loss of revenue. contractual commitments with component suppliers may result in us paying increased charges and cash advances for such components. to reduce the risk of component shortages, we attempt to provide significant lead times when buying components. as a result, we may be subject to cancellation charges if we cancel orders, which may occur when we make technology transitions or when our component needs change. in addition, we have entered into contractual commitments with component suppliers, such as suppliers of media, and may enter into contractual commitments with other component suppliers, in an effort to increase and stabilize the supply of those components, and enable us to purchase such components at favorable prices. some of these commitments require or may require us to buy a substantial number of components from the supplier or make significant cash advances to the supplier, however these commitments may not result in a satisfactory increase or stabilization of the supply of such components. our high-volume hard drive manufacturing facilities, and the manufacturing facilities of many of our suppliers, are concentrated in asia, and our planned media manufacturing facilities will be located in asia, which subjects us to the risk of damage or loss of any of these facilities and localized risks to employees in these locations. our high-volume hard drive manufacturing facilities are in malaysia and thailand and the manufacturing facilities of many of our suppliers are in asia. following our planned acquisition of komag, we will also have media and substrate manufacturing facilities in malaysia. a condition or event such as political instability, civil unrest or a power outage, or a fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster that adversely affects any of these facilities or our ability to manufacture could 19 table of contents limit the total volume of hard drives we are able to manufacture and result in a loss of sales and revenue and harm our operating results. similarly, a localized health risk affecting our employees or the staff of our suppliers, such as a new pandemic influenza in asia, could impair the total volume of hard drives that we are able to manufacture. our head manufacturing operations include a single wafer fabrication facility in fremont, california and a single head gimbal assembly facility in bang pa-in, thailand, and our planned media operations will include four facilities in malaysia, which subjects us to substantial risk of damage or loss if operations at either of these facilities are disrupted. as we have previously discussed in public statements, our business plan presently contemplates that we plan to design and manufacture approximately 70% to 80% of the heads required for the hard drives we manufacture. we fabricate wafers in our fremont, california facility, and the wafers are then sent to our thailand facility for slider fabrication and wafer slicing and hga assembly and testing. additionally, following our planned acquisition of komag, we will manufacture the majority of our media and substrates in malaysia facilities. a fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster, condition or event such as a power outage that adversely affects our facilities in fremont, california or bang pa-in, thailand, or in malaysia following our planned acquisition of komag, would significantly affect supply of our heads or media, respectively, and limit our ability to manufacture hard drives which would result in a substantial loss of sales and revenue and a substantial harm to our operating results. following our planned acquisition of komag, if we fail to successfully integrate komag business into our operations in the expected time frame, or at all, it may adversely affect our future results. we believe that our planned acquisition of komag will result in certain benefits, including certain cost, operational and other efficiencies and synergies. the success of our planned acquisition will be dependent on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from vertically integrating komag business into our operations and komag media technology with our head technology. following the planned acquisition, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits on a timely basis, or at all, for a variety of reasons, including the following: potential incompatibility of komag operating systems with our operating systems; failure to integrate komag media technology with our head technology, or failure to leverage such integration, quickly and effectively; failure to successfully manage relationships with komag suppliers; failure to successfully manage relationships with komag other customers and the possibility of unanticipated claims from such parties; failure to successfully manage relationships with our other media suppliers; potential difficulties integrating and harmonizing financial reporting systems; and the loss of key employees. if we are not able to successfully integrate komag business and technology into our operations, the anticipated benefits and efficiencies of the planned acquisition may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, and our ability to compete, our profit margins and our results of operations may be adversely affected. the successful completion of our planned acquisition of komag is subject to risks and uncertainties and in the event we fail to complete the acquisition our stock price could suffer and our relationship with vendors and customers may be adversely impacted. our ability to complete the planned acquisition of komag is subject to risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risk that a condition to closing of the transaction may not be satisfied and the risk that we fail to obtain the financing necessary to complete the transaction. there is also no assurance that an adequate number of komag shares will be validly tendered, and not withdrawn, in the tender offer sufficient to satisfy our minimum tender offer condition. in the event that the tender offer or merger is not completed or is delayed, the current market price of our common stock may decline if based on an assumption that the merger will occur as contemplated during the third calendar quarter of 2007. additionally, these uncertainties regarding the merger may adversely affect our relationships with our vendors and customers. 20 table of contents there are certain additional capital expenditure costs and asset utilization risks to our business associated with our strategy to vertically integrate our operations. our vertical integration of head manufacturing resulted in a fundamental change in our operating structure, as we now manufacture heads for use in many of the hard drives we manufacture. similarly, our planned integration of komag media business into our overall operations will allow us to manufacture media components to work with our heads. consequently, we make more capital investments than we would if we were not vertically integrated and carry a higher percentage of fixed costs than assumed in our prior financial business model. if the overall level of production decreases for any reason, and we are unable to reduce our fixed costs to match sales, our head or planned media manufacturing assets may face under-utilization that may impact our results of operations. we are therefore subject to additional risks related to overall asset utilization, including the need to operate at high levels of utilization to drive competitive costs, and the need for assured supply of components that we do not manufacture ourselves. in addition, we may incur additional risks, including: if we are unable to manufacture a sufficient supply of heads, or media following our planned acquisition of komag, there may be insufficient third party sources to satisfy our needs; third party head or media suppliers may not continue to do business with us or may not do business with us on the same terms and conditions we have previously enjoyed; claims that our manufacturing of heads, or media following our planned acquisition of komag, may infringe certain intellectual property rights of other companies; and difficulties locating in a timely manner suitable manufacturing equipment for our head or planned media manufacturing processes and replacement parts for such equipment. if we do not adequately address the challenges related to our head or planned media manufacturing operations, our ongoing operations could be disrupted, resulting in a decrease in our revenue or profit margins and negatively impacting our operating results. our operating results will be adversely affected if we fail to optimize the overall quality, time-to-market and time-to-volume of new and established products. to achieve consistent success with our customers, we must balance several key attributes such as time-to-market, time-to-volume, quality, cost, service, price and a broad product portfolio. if we fail to: maintain overall quality of products on new and established programs; produce sufficient quantities of products at the capacities our customers demand while managing the integration of new and established technologies; develop and qualify new products that have changes in overall specifications or features that our customers may require for their business needs; obtain commitments from our customers to qualify new products, redesigns of current products, or new components in our existing products; qualify these products with key customers on a timely basis by meeting all of our customers needs for performance, quality and features; maintain an adequate supply of components required to manufacture our products; maintain the manufacturing capability to quickly change our product mix between different capacities, form factors and spin speeds in response to changes in customers product demands; or consistently meet stated quality requirements on delivered products, our operating results will be adversely affected. 21 table of contents if we are unable to timely and cost-effectively develop heads and media, following our planned acquisition of komag, with leading technology and overall quality, our ability to sell our products may be significantly diminished, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. under our business plan, we are developing and manufacturing a substantial portion of the heads used in some of the hard drives products we manufacture and, following our planned acquisition of komag, we intend to develop and manufacture a substantial portion of the media used in some of the hard drive products we manufacture. consequently, we are more dependent upon our own development and execution efforts and less able to take advantage of head technologies, and will be less able to take advantage of media technologies, developed by other manufacturers. technology transition for head and media designs is critical to increasing our volume production of heads and media. there can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful in timely and cost-effectively developing and manufacturing heads or media for products using future technologies. we also may not effectively transition our head or planned media design and technology to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields using the technologies necessary to satisfy our customers product needs, or we may encounter quality problems with the heads we manufacture or media we plan to manufacture. in addition, we may not have access to external sources of supply without incurring substantial costs. for example, we recently began using perpendicular recording heads in certain of our products. we face various challenges in ramping the manufacturing volume of these products and if we do not adequately address these challenges, or if we encounter quality problems with the heads we manufacture or media we plan to manufacture for these products, our continued shipment of these products may be delayed, impairing our ability to realize revenue from these products. failure by certain suppliers to effectively and efficiently develop and manufacture components for our products may adversely affect our operations. we rely on suppliers for various component parts that we integrate into our hard drives but do not manufacture ourselves, such as semiconductors, motors, flex circuits and suspensions. we are dependent on the suppliers of these various components to be able and willing to dedicate adequate engineering resources to develop technology that can be successfully integrated with our products, and to manufacture these components efficiently. the failure of component suppliers to effectively and efficiently develop and manufacture technology that can be integrated into our products may cause us to experience inability or delay in our manufacturing and shipment of hard drive products, or our expansion into new technology and markets, therefore adversely affecting our business and financial results. if we fail to qualify our products with our customers, they may not purchase any units of a particular product line, which would have a significant adverse impact on our sales. we regularly engage in new product qualification with our customers. once a product is accepted for qualification testing, failures or delays in the qualification process can result in our losing sales to that customer until the next generation of products is introduced. the effect of missing a product qualification opportunity is magnified by the limited number of high volume oems, which continue to consolidate their share of the pc and ce markets. if product life cycles lengthen, we may have a significantly longer period to wait before we have an opportunity to qualify a new product with a customer, which could harm our competitive position. these risks are increased because we expect cost improvements and competitive pressures to result in declining gross margins on our current generation products. we are subject to risks related to product defects, which could result in product recalls and could subject us to warranty claims in excess of our warranty provisions or which are greater than anticipated due to the unenforceability of liability limitations. we warrant the majority of our products for periods of one to five years. we test our hard drives in our manufacturing facilities through a variety of means. however, there can be no assurance that our testing will reveal latent defects in our products, which may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market. accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will occur, which could require a product recall. product recalls can be expensive to implement and, if a product recall occurs during the product warranty period, we may be required to replace the defective product. in addition, a product recall may damage our relationship with our customers, and we may lose market share with our customers, including our oem and odm customers. our standard warranties contain limits on damages and exclusions of liability for consequential damages and for misuse, improper installation, alteration, accident or mishandling while in the possession of someone other than us. we 22 table of contents record an accrual for estimated warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. we may incur additional operating expenses if our warranty provision does not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues related to defects in our products. if these additional expenses are significant, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. current or future competitors may gain a technology advantage or develop an advantageous cost structure that we cannot match. it may be possible for our current or future competitors to gain an advantage in product technology, manufacturing technology, or process technology, which may allow them to offer products or services that have a significant advantage over the products and services that we offer. advantages could be in capacity, performance, reliability, serviceability, or other attributes. higher capacity storage needs have typically been better served by magnetic hard drives than flash memory as hard drive manufacturers can offer better value at high capacities, while lower capacity needs have been successfully served by solid state storage such as flash memory technology. advances in magnetic, optical, semiconductor or other data storage technologies could result in competitive products that have better performance or lower cost per unit of capacity than our products. if we fail to be cost competitive against flash memory, we could be at a competitive disadvantage to companies using semiconductor technology. further industry consolidation could provide competitive advantages to our competitors. the hard drive industry has experienced consolidation over the past several years. consolidation by our competitors may enhance their capacity, abilities and resources and lower their cost structure, causing us to be at a competitive disadvantage. additionally, continued industry consolidation may lead to uncertainty in areas such as component availability, which could negatively impact our cost structure. sales in the distribution channel are important to our business, and if we fail to maintain brand preference with our distributors or if distribution markets for hard drives weaken, our operating results could suffer. our distribution customers typically sell to small computer manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators and other resellers. we face significant competition in this channel as a result of limited product qualification programs and a significant focus on price and availability of product. if we fail to remain competitive in terms of our technology, quality, service and support, our distribution customers may favor our competitors, and our operating results could suffer. we also face significant risk in the distribution market for hard drives. if the distribution market weakens as a result of a slowing pc growth rate, technology transitions or a significant change in consumer buying preference from white box to branded pcs, or we experience significant price declines due to oversupply in the distribution channel, then our operating results would be adversely affected. the hard drive industry is highly competitive and can be characterized by significant shifts in market share among the major competitors. the price of hard drives has fallen over time due to increases in supply, cost reductions, technological advances and price reductions by competitors seeking to liquidate excess inventories or attempting to gain market share. in addition, rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and profitability of sales of existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence. we also face competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies like flash memory. these factors, taken together, may result in significant shifts in market share among the industry major participants. in addition, product recalls can lead to a loss of market share, which could adversely affect our operating results. some of our competitors with diversified business units outside the hard drive industry periodically sell disk drives at prices that we cannot profitably match. some of our competitors earn a significant portion of their revenue from business units outside the hard drive industry. because they do not depend solely on sales of hard drives to achieve profitability, they periodically sell hard drives at lower prices and operate their hard drive business unit at a loss while still remaining profitable overall. in 23 table of contents addition, if these competitors can increase sales of non-hard drive products to the same customers, they may benefit from selling their hard drives at low prices. our results of operations may be adversely affected if we can not successfully compete with the pricing by these companies. if we do not successfully expand into new hard drive markets and manage the issues associated with new products and new markets, our business may suffer. to remain a significant supplier of hard drives, we will need to offer a broad range of hard drive products to our customers. we currently offer a variety of 3.5-inch hard drives for the desktop, enterprise, ce and external storage markets, and we also offer 2.5-inch form factor hard drives for the mobile, ce and external storage markets. however, demand for hard drives may shift to products in smaller form factors, which our competitors may already offer. expansion into other hard drive markets and resulting increases in volume capacity requirements may require us to make substantial additional capital investments due in part because our operations are vertically integrated. while we continue to develop new products and look to expand into other hard drive markets, the success of our new product introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to anticipate and manage a variety of issues associated with these new products and new markets, such as difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp, market acceptance, effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, quality problems or other defects in the early stages of new product introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products, and higher return rates of external storage products due to more lenient return policies in the retail market. further, we need to identify how any of the hard drive markets that we are expanding into may have different characteristics from the markets in which we currently exist, such as, demand volume growth rates, demand seasonality, product generations development rates, customer concentrations, and cost and performance requirements, and we must properly address these differences. if we fail to successfully develop and manufacture new products and expand into new hard drive markets, customers may decrease the amount of our products that they purchase, and we may lose business to our competitors who offer these products. if we do not properly manage the technology transitions of our products, our operating results may be negatively affected. many of the markets in which we offer our products are undergoing technology transitions. for example, in order to handle higher data transfer rates, the pc and enterprise markets are transitioning from parallel interfaces, such as pata and scsi, to serial interfaces, such as sata and sas, respectively. we must effectively manage the transition of the features of our products to serial interfaces in order to remain competitive and cost effective. in the pc market, we currently offer pata and sata products and must timely and efficiently manage both our manufacture of pata products through their end of life and our ramp of sata products and features. if we fail to successfully manage the transition from parallel interfaces to serial interfaces, our operating results may suffer. expanding into new hard drive markets exposes our business to different seasonal demand cycles, which in turn could adversely affect our operating results. the ce and retail markets have different seasonal pricing and volume demand cycles as compared to the pc market. by expanding into these markets, we became exposed to seasonal fluctuations that are different from, and in addition to, those of the pc market. for example, because the primary customer for products such as our branded products are individual consumers, these markets experience a dramatic increase in demand during the winter holiday season. if we do not properly adjust our supply to new demand cycles such as this, we risk having excess inventory during periods of low demand and insufficient inventory during periods of high demand, therefore adversely affecting our operating results. if we do not successfully continue to expand into the mobile market, or if we do not accurately predict the growth and demands of the mobile market, our business may suffer. we began shipping 2.5-inch form factor hard drives for the mobile market during calendar year 2004. if we are unable to successfully continue to expand into the mobile market, we would have a competitive disadvantage to companies that are successful in this regard, and our business and financial results could suffer. to increase the sale of our products in the mobile market, we must adapt to the differences between the desktop and mobile markets, such as different requirements, features and competitors. in addition, if we continue to incur significant costs in manufacturing 24 table of contents and selling the 2.5-inch hard drives, and if we are unable to recover those costs from sales of the products, then we may not be able to compete successfully in this market and our operating results may suffer. furthermore, if we do not accurately predict the future growth and demands of the mobile market, our business may suffer. for example, if the volume demand of the pc market shifts from desktop computers to notebook computers at a faster rate than we anticipate, we would be at a more significant competitive disadvantage to companies who have been more successful in the mobile market. selling to the retail market has become an important part of our business, and if we fail to maintain and grow our market share or gain market acceptance of our branded products, our operating results could suffer. we sell our branded products directly to a select group of major retailers, for example, computer superstores and ce stores, and authorize sales through distributors to other retailers and online resellers. our current retail customer base is primarily in the united states, canada and europe. we are facing increased competition from other companies for shelf space at a small number of major retailers that have strong buying power and pricing leverage. if we fail to successfully maintain a customer preference for western digital brand products or fail to successfully expand into multiple channels, our operating results may be adversely affected. we face strong competition in maintaining and trying to grow our market share in the retail market, particularly because of the relatively low barriers to entry in this market. we will continue to introduce new products in the retail market that incorporate our disk drives, however there can be no assurance that these products will gain market acceptance, and if they do not, our operating results could suffer. loss of market share with or by a key customer could harm our operating results. during 2007, a large percentage of our revenue came from sales to our top 10 customers, which accounted for 47% of our revenue. one of these customers, dell, accounted for more than 10% of our revenue. these customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial demands on us, including demands on product pricing and on contractual terms, which often results in the allocation of risk to us as the supplier. even if we successfully qualify a product with a customer, the customer generally is not obligated to purchase any minimum volume of products from us and may be able to cancel an order or terminate its relationship with us at any time. our ability to maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is essential to our future performance. if we lose a key customer, if any of our key customers reduce their orders of our products or require us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, if a customer is acquired by one of our competitors or if a key customer suffers financial hardship then our operating results would likely be harmed. in addition, if customer pressures require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, we could decide not to sell our products to a particular customer, which could result in a decrease in our revenue. we may be unable to retain our key staff and skilled employees. our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key staff and skilled employees, many of whom would be extremely difficult to replace. worldwide competition for skilled employees in the hard drive industry is intense. volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key staff or skilled employees who have received equity compensation. if we are unable to retain our existing key staff or skilled employees, or hire and integrate new key staff or skilled employees, or if we fail to implement succession plans for our key staff, our operating results would likely be harmed. manufacturing and marketing our products abroad subjects us to numerous risks. we are subject to risks associated with our foreign manufacturing operations and foreign marketing efforts, including: obtaining requisite united states of america and foreign governmental permits and approvals; currency exchange rate fluctuations or restrictions; political instability and civil unrest; limited transportation availability, delays, and extended time required for shipping, which risks may be compounded in periods of price declines; 25 table of contents higher freight rates; labor problems; trade restrictions or higher tariffs; exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations; increasing labor and overhead costs; and loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities. while neither the 2006 thai coup d tat nor terrorist bombings in bangkok had any appreciable impact on our manufacturing operations, these events illustrate the risks associated with our foreign manufacturing operations and foreign marketing efforts and the importance to our business of stability in the countries in which we operate. terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business and operating results. the continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility have created uncertainty in the financial and insurance markets and have significantly increased the political, economic and social instability in some of the geographic areas in which we operate. additionally, it is uncertain what impact the reactions to such acts by various governmental agencies and security regulators worldwide will have on shipping costs. acts of terrorism, either domestically or abroad, could create further uncertainties and instability. to the extent this results in disruption or delays of our manufacturing capabilities or shipments of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. sudden disruptions to the availability of freight lanes could have an impact on our operations. we ship the majority of our products to our various customers via air freight. the sudden unavailability of air cargo operations used to ship our products would impair our ability to deliver our products in a timely and efficient manner, which could adversely impact our operating results. we also ship our product via ocean freight, and events or conditions at shipping ports, such as labor difficulties or disputes, could also impact our operating results by impairing our ability to timely and efficiently deliver these products. we face litigation risks relating to our historical stock option grants that could have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business. several purported derivative actions were filed nominally on our behalf against certain of our current and former directors and officers in connection with our historical stock option granting practices. see part i, item 3, legal proceedings for a more detailed description of these proceedings. we are and may in the future be subject to other litigation or government investigations arising in connection with such option practices. these proceedings may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations, and the outcome of any such proceeding is difficult to predict. the defense of such lawsuits or investigations could result in significant expense and the diversion of our management time and attention from the operation of our business, which could impede our ability to achieve our business objectives. some or all of the amount we may be required to pay to defend or to satisfy a judgment or settlement of any or all of these proceedings may not be covered by insurance. under indemnification agreements we have entered into with our current and former officers and directors, we are required to indemnify them, and advance expenses to them, in connection with their participation in proceedings arising out of their service to us. these payments may be material. the nature of our business and our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk of significant litigation. the hard drive industry has been characterized by significant litigation. this includes litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights, product liability claims and other types of litigation. litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. moreover, the results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may 26 table of contents result in adverse rulings or decisions. we may enter into settlements or be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we evaluate notices of alleged patent infringement and notices of patents from patent holders that we receive from time to time. if claims or actions are asserted against us, we may be required to obtain a license or cross-license, modify our existing technology or design a new non-infringing technology. such licenses or design modifications can be extremely costly. in addition, we may decide to settle a claim or action against us, which settlement could be costly. we may also be liable for any past infringement. if there is an adverse ruling against us in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued barring production or sale of any infringing product. it could also result in a damage award equal to a reasonable royalty or lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement, treble damages. any of these results would increase our costs and harm our operating results. our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients of our business could be copied by competitors. our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary nature of our technology, including non-patentable intellectual property such as our process technology. despite safeguards, to the extent that a competitor is able to reproduce or otherwise capitalize on our technology, it may be difficult, expensive or impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. also, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in addition to patent protection of intellectual property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. we rely upon employee, consultant and vendor non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. however, any of our registered or unregistered intellectual property rights may be challenged or exploited by others in the industry, which might harm our operating results. environmental regulation costs could harm our operating results. we may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of certain products. such laws and regulations have been passed in several jurisdictions in which we operate, including various european union member countries. for example, the european union has enacted the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ( rohs ) and the waste electrical and electronic equipment ( weee ) directives. rohs prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, in certain products, including hard drives, put on the market after july 1, 2006. the weee directive obligates parties that place electrical and electronic equipment onto the market in the eu to put a clearly identifiable mark on the equipment, register with and report to eu member countries regarding distribution of the equipment, and provide a mechanism to take-back and properly dispose of the equipment. there is still some uncertainty in certain eu countries as to which party involved in the manufacture, distribution and sale of electronic equipment will be ultimately responsible for registration, reporting and disposal. similar legislation may be enacted in other locations where we manufacture or sell our products, such as asia. we will need to ensure that we comply with such laws and regulations as they are enacted, and that our component suppliers also timely comply with such laws and regulations. if we fail to timely comply with the legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our products, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in connection with our compliance with such environmental laws and regulations, we could incur substantial costs and be subject to disruptions to our operations and logistics. in addition, if we were found to be in violation of these laws, we could be subject to governmental fines and liability to our customers. if we have to make significant capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws, or if we are subject to significant expenses in connection with a violation of these laws, our financial condition or operating results could suffer. fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations may negatively affect our operating results. because we manufacture our products abroad, our operating costs are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. further fluctuations in the exchange rate of the thai baht and of the malaysian ringgit may negatively impact our operating results. 27 table of contents the thai baht is a free floating currency while the malaysian ringgit exchange rate policy is one of a managed float. we have attempted to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into short-term, forward contracts. however, these contracts do not cover our full exposure and can be canceled by the issuer if currency controls are put in place. currently, we hedge the thai baht, malaysian ringgit, euro and british pound sterling with forward contracts. if the u.s. dollar exhibits sustained weakness against most foreign currencies, the u.s. dollar equivalents of unhedged manufacturing costs could increase because a significant portion of our production costs are foreign-currency denominated. conversely, there would not be an offsetting impact to revenues since revenues are substantially u.s. dollar denominated. increases in our customers credit risk could result in credit losses and an increase in our operating costs. some of our oem customers have adopted a subcontractor model that requires us to contract directly with companies, such as odms, that provide manufacturing services to our oem customers. because these subcontractors are generally not as well capitalized as our direct oem customers, this subcontractor model exposes us to increased credit risks. our agreements with our oem customers may not permit us to increase our product prices to alleviate this increased credit risk. additionally, as we attempt to expand our oem and distribution channel sales into emerging economies such as brazil, russia, india and china, the customers in these regions may have relatively short operating histories, making it more difficult for us to accurately access the associated credit risks. any credit losses we may suffer as a result of these increased risks, or as a result of credit losses from any significant customer, would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. inaccurate projections of demand for our product can cause large fluctuations in our quarterly results. we often ship a high percentage of our total quarterly sales in the third month of the quarter, which makes it difficult for us to forecast our financial results before the end of the quarter. in addition, our quarterly projections and results may be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a number of other factors including: the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major customers; our product mix; changes in the prices of our products; manufacturing delays or interruptions; acceptance by customers of competing products in lieu of our products; variations in the cost of components for our products; limited availability of components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; competition and consolidation in the data storage industry; seasonal and other fluctuations in demand for pcs often due to technological advances; and availability and rates of transportation. rapidly changing conditions in the hard drive industry make it difficult to predict actual results. we have made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting. the highly technical nature of our products and the rapidly changing market conditions with which we deal means that actual results may differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions. these changes have impacted our financial results in the past and may continue to do so in the future. key estimates and assumptions for us include: accruals for warranty costs related to product defects; price protection adjustments and other sales promotions and allowances on products sold to retailers, resellers and distributors; 28 table of contents inventory adjustments for write-down of inventories to lower of cost or market value (net realizable value); reserves for doubtful accounts; accruals for product returns; accruals for litigation and other contingencies; and reserves for deferred tax assets. the market price of our common stock is volatile. the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, extremely volatile. factors such as the following may significantly affect the market price of our common stock: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors which may decrease the volume and profitability of sales of our existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence; new products introduced by us or our competitors; periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price erosion resulting from competitive pressures or industry consolidation; developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; conditions and trends in the hard drive, computer, data and content management, storage and communication industries; and changes in financial estimates by securities analysts relating specifically to us or the hard drive industry in general. in addition, general economic conditions may cause the stock market to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations from time to time that particularly affect the stock prices of many high technology companies. these fluctuations often appear to be unrelated to the operating performance of the companies. securities class action lawsuits are often brought against companies after periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. a number of such suits have been filed against us in the past, and should any new lawsuits be filed, such matters could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources and management attention. we may be unable to raise future capital through debt or equity financing. due to the risks described herein, in the future we may be unable to maintain adequate financial resources for capital expenditures, expansion or acquisition activity, working capital and research and development. if we decide to increase or accelerate our capital expenditures or research and development efforts, or if results of operations do not meet our expectations, we could require additional debt or equity financing. however, we cannot ensure that additional financing will be available to us or available on acceptable terms. an equity financing could also be dilutive to our existing stockholders. if our internal controls are found to be ineffective, our financial results or our stock price may be adversely affected. our most recent evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of june 29, 2007, in compliance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, our internal controls over financial reporting were effective. we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place for future periods; however, if our internal controls are found to be ineffective, our financial results or our stock price may be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk disclosure about foreign currency risk although the majority of our transactions are in u.s. dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. we purchase short-term, forward exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. the purpose of entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. the contract maturity dates do not exceed six months. we do not purchase short-term forward exchange contracts for trading purposes. currently, we focus on hedging our foreign currency risk related to thai baht, malaysian ringgit, euro and british pound sterling. thai baht and malaysian ringgit contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. all other contracts are designated as fair value hedges. see part ii, item 8, note 1 in the notes to consolidated financial statements, included in this annual report on form 10-k. 42 table of contents as of june 29, 2007, we had outstanding the following purchased foreign currency forward exchange contracts (in millions, except weighted average contract rate): contract weighted average unrealized amount contract rate* gain (loss) foreign currency forward contracts: thai bhat $ 256.1 33.10 $ 0.1 malaysian ringgit $ 231.8 3.41 $ (1.1 ) euro $ 2.9 0.74 british pound sterling $ 1.9 0.50 * expressed in units of foreign currency per dollar. in 2007, 2006 and 2005, total realized transaction and forward exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to our consolidated financial statements. disclosure about other market risks variable interest rate risk we maintained a $125 million credit facility ( senior credit facility ) with a termination date of september 20, 2009. the term loan was paid in full as of march 30, 2007, a letter of termination was submitted for the senior credit facility on june 28 th , 2007, and termination was finalized during the first quarter of 2008. 43 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors declines in average selling prices ( asps ) in the hard drive industry could adversely affect our operating results. the hard drive industry historically has experienced declining asps. our asps tend to decline when competitors lower prices as a result of decreased costs or to absorb excess capacity, liquidate excess inventories, restructure or attempt to gain market share. our asps also decline when there is a shift in the mix of product sales, and sales of lower priced products increase relative to those of higher priced products. when asps in the hard drive industry decline, our asps are also likely to decline, which adversely affects our operating results. if we fail to anticipate or timely respond to changes in the markets for hard drives, our operating results could be adversely affected. over the past few years the consumer market for computers has shifted significantly towards lower priced systems. if we are not able to continue to offer a competitively priced hard drive for the low-cost pc market, our share of that market will likely fall, which could harm our operating results. the market for hard drives is also fragmenting into a variety of devices and products. many industry analysts expect, as do we, that, as content increasingly converts to digital technology from the older, analog technology, the technology of computers and consumer electronics will continue to converge, and hard drives will be found in many ce products other than computers. in addition, we expect that the consumer market for multi-media applications, including audio-video products, incorporating high capacity, and handheld consumer storage will continue to grow. however, because this market remains relatively new, accurate forecasts for future growth remain challenging. moreover, some devices, such as personal video recorders and digital video recorders, or some new pc operating systems which allow greater consumer choice in levels of functionality, therefore allowing for greater market differentiation, may require attributes not currently offered in our products, resulting in a need to develop new interfaces, form factors, technical specifications or hard drive features, increasing our overall operational expense without corresponding incremental revenue at this stage. if we are not successful in continuing to deploy our hard drive technology and expertise to develop new products for the emerging ce market, or if we are required to incur significant costs in developing such products, it may harm our operating results. our prices and margins are subject to declines due to unpredictable end-user demand and oversupply of hard drives. demand for our hard drives depends on the demand for systems manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems. the demand for systems has been volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand for hard drives in any given period. as a result, the hard drive market has experienced periods of excess capacity which can lead to liquidation of excess inventories and intense price competition. if intense price competition occurs, we may be forced to lower prices sooner and more than expected, which could result in lower revenue and gross margins. our failure to accurately forecast market and customer demand for our products could adversely affect our business and financial results. the hard drive industry faces difficulties in accurately forecasting market and customer demand for its products. the variety and volume of products we manufacture is based in part on these forecasts. if our forecasts exceed actual market demand, or if market demand decreases significantly from our forecasts, then we could experience periods of product oversupply and price decreases, which could impact our financial performance. if our forecasts do not meet actual market demand, or if market demand increases significantly beyond our forecasts or beyond our ability to add 16 table of contents manufacturing capacity, then we may not be able to satisfy customer product needs, which could result in a loss of market share if our competitors are able to meet customer demands. we also use forecasts in making decisions regarding investment of our resources. for example, as the hard drive industry transitions from the parallel advanced technology attachment ( pata ) interface to the sata interface, we may invest more resources in the development of products using the sata interface. if our forecasts regarding the replacement of the pata interface with the sata interface are inaccurate, we may not have products available to meet our customers needs. in addition, although we receive forecasts from our customers, they are not generally obligated to purchase the forecasted amounts. in particular, sales volumes in the distribution and retail channels are volatile and harder to predict than sales to our oem or odm customers. we consider these forecasts in determining our component needs and our inventory requirements. if we fail to accurately forecast our customers product demands, we may have inadequate or excess inventory of our products or components, which could adversely affect our operating results. increases in areal density may outpace customers demand for storage capacity, which may lower the prices our customers are willing to pay for new products. historically, the industry has experienced periods of variable areal density growth rates. when the rate of areal density growth increases, the rate of increase may exceed the increase in our customers demand for aggregate storage capacity. furthermore, our customers demand for storage capacity may not continue to grow at current industry estimates as a result of developments in the regulation and enforcement of digital rights management or otherwise. these factors could lead to our customers storage capacity needs being satisfied with lower capacity hard drives at lower prices, thereby decreasing our revenue. as a result, even with increasing aggregate demand for storage capacity, our asps could decline, which could adversely affect our operating results. expansion into new hard drive markets may cause our capital expenditures to increase and if we do not successfully expand into new markets, our business may suffer. to remain a significant supplier of hard drives, we will need to offer a broad range of hard drive products to our customers. we currently offer a variety of 3.5-inch hard drives for the desktop, enterprise, ce and external storage markets, and we also offer 2.5-inch form factor hard drives for the mobile, ce and external storage markets. however, demand for hard drives may shift to products in form factors or with interfaces that our competitors offer but which we do not. expansion into other hard drive markets and resulting increases in manufacturing capacity requirements may require us to make substantial additional investments due in part because our operations are largely vertically integrated. if we fail to successfully expand into new hard drive markets with products that we do not currently offer, we may lose business to our competitors who offer these products. if we fail to successfully manage our new product development or new market expansion, or if we fail to anticipate the issues associated with such development or expansion, our business may suffer. while we continue to develop new products and look to expand into other hard drive markets, the success of our new product introductions is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to anticipate and manage a variety of issues associated with these new products and new markets, such as: difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp; market acceptance; effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand; and quality problems or other defects in the early stages of new product introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products. 17 table of contents further, we need to identify how any of the hard drive markets into which we are expanding may have different characteristics from the markets in which we currently exist and properly address these differences. these characteristics may include: demand volume growth rates; demand seasonality; product generation development rates; customer concentrations; warranty expectations and product return policies; and cost, performance and compatibility requirements. our business may suffer if we fail to successfully anticipate and manage these issues associated with our product development and market expansion. for example, our branded products are designed to attach to and interoperate with a wide variety of pc and ce devices and therefore their functionality is reliant on the manufacturer of such devices, or the associated operating systems, enabling the manufacturer devices to operate with our branded products. if our branded products are not compatible with a wide variety of devices, or if device manufacturers design their devices so that our branded products cannot operate with them, and we cannot quickly and efficiently adapt our branded products to address these compatibility issues, our business could suffer. expanding into new hard drive markets exposes our business to different seasonal demand cycles, which in turn could adversely affect our operating results. the ce and retail markets have different seasonal pricing and volume demand cycles as compared to the pc market. by expanding into these markets, we became exposed to seasonal fluctuations that are different from, and in addition to, those of the pc market. for example, because the primary customer for products such as our branded products are individual consumers, these markets experience a dramatic increase in demand during the winter holiday season. if we do not properly adjust our supply to new demand cycles such as this, we risk having excess inventory during periods of low demand and insufficient inventory during periods of high demand, therefore adversely affecting our operating results. if we do not predict the size and demands of the market for 2.5-inch hard drives, our business may suffer. to continue to increase the sale of our 2.5-inch hard drives in the mobile market, we must predict and successfully adapt to the differences between the desktop and mobile markets, such as different requirements, features and competitors. if we do not predict the size and demands of the markets for 2.5-inch hard drives, including the mobile market, our business may suffer. for example, if a market that traditionally has used 3.5-inch hard drives, such as the desktop pc market, shifts its volume demand to 2.5-inch hard drives at a faster rate than we anticipate, our ability to meet the demands of such market, as well as the mobile market, may be impaired, which may cause our business to suffer. selling to the retail market has become an important part of our business, and if we fail to maintain and grow our market share or gain market acceptance of our branded products, our operating results could suffer. we sell our branded products directly to a select group of major retailers, for example, computer superstores and ce stores, and authorize sales through distributors to other retailers and online resellers. our current retail customer base is primarily in the united states, canada and europe. we are facing increased competition from other companies for shelf space at a small number of major retailers that have strong buying power and pricing leverage. if we fail to successfully maintain a customer preference for wd brand products or fail to successfully expand into multiple channels, our operating results may be adversely affected. we face strong competition in maintaining and trying to grow our market share in the retail market, particularly because of the relatively low barriers to entry in this market. for example, several additional hard drive manufacturers have recently disclosed plans to expand into the external storage market and as these companies attempt to gain market share, we may have difficulty in maintaining or growing our market share and there may be increased downward pressure on pricing. we will continue to introduce new products in the retail market that incorporate our disk drives; however, there can be no assurance that these products will gain market acceptance, and if they do not, our operating results could suffer. 18 table of contents loss of market share with or by a key customer could harm our operating results. during the year ended june 27, 2008, a large percentage of our revenue came from sales to our top 10 customers, which accounted for 47% of our revenue. these customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial demands on us, including demands on product pricing and on contractual terms, which often results in the allocation of risk to us as the supplier. even if we successfully qualify a product with a customer, the customer generally is not obligated to purchase any minimum volume of products from us and may be able to cancel an order or terminate its relationship with us at any time. our ability to maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is essential to our future performance. if we lose a key customer, if any of our key customers reduce their orders of our products or require us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, if a customer is acquired by one of our competitors or if a key customer suffers financial hardship, our operating results would likely be harmed. in addition, if customer pressures require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, we could decide not to sell our products to a particular customer, which could result in a decrease in our revenue. current or future competitors may gain a technology advantage or develop an advantageous cost structure that we cannot match. it may be possible for our current or future competitors to gain an advantage in product technology, manufacturing technology, or process technology, which may allow them to offer products or services that have a significant advantage over the products and services that we offer. advantages could be in capacity, performance, reliability, serviceability, or other attributes. higher capacity storage needs have typically been better served by magnetic hard drives than flash memory as hard drive manufacturers can offer better value at high capacities, while lower capacity needs have been successfully served by solid state storage such as flash memory technology. advances in magnetic, optical, semiconductor or other data storage technologies could result in competitive products that have better performance or lower cost per unit of capacity than our products. if we fail to be cost competitive against flash memory, we could be at a competitive disadvantage to companies using semiconductor technology. further industry consolidation could provide competitive advantages to our competitors. the hard drive industry has experienced consolidation over the past several years. consolidation by our competitors may enhance their capacity, abilities and resources and lower their cost structure, causing us to be at a competitive disadvantage. additionally, continued industry consolidation may lead to uncertainty in areas such as component availability, which could negatively impact our cost structure. sales in the distribution channel are important to our business, and if we fail to maintain brand preference with our distributors or if distribution markets for hard drives weaken, our operating results could suffer. our distribution customers typically sell to small computer manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators and other resellers. we face significant competition in this channel as a result of limited product qualification programs and a significant focus on price and availability of product. if we fail to remain competitive in terms of our technology, quality, service and support, our distribution customers may favor our competitors, and our operating results could suffer. we also face significant risk in the distribution market for hard drives. if the distribution market weakens as a result of a slowing pc growth rate, technology transitions or a significant change in consumer buying preference from white box to branded pcs, or we experience significant price declines due to oversupply in the distribution channel, then our operating results would be adversely affected. the hard drive industry is highly competitive and can be characterized by significant shifts in market share among the major competitors. the price of hard drives has fallen over time due to increases in supply, cost reductions, technological advances and price reductions by competitors seeking to liquidate excess inventories or attempting to gain market share. in addition, rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and profitability of sales of existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence. we also face competition from other companies that produce alternative storage technologies like flash memory. these factors, taken together, may result in significant shifts in market share among the industry major participants. in addition, product recalls can lead to a loss of market share, which could adversely affect our operating results. 19 table of contents some of our competitors with diversified business units outside the hard drive industry periodically sell hard drives at prices that we cannot profitably match. some of our competitors earn a significant portion of their revenue from business units outside the hard drive industry. because they do not depend solely on sales of hard drives to achieve profitability, they periodically sell hard drives at lower prices and operate their hard drive business unit at a loss while still remaining profitable overall. in addition, if these competitors can increase sales of non-hard drive products to the same customers, they may benefit from selling their hard drives at low prices. our operating results may be adversely affected if we cannot successfully compete with the pricing by these companies. if we fail to qualify our products with our customers, they may not purchase any units of a particular product line, which would have a significant adverse impact on our sales. we regularly engage in new product qualification with our customers. once a product is accepted for qualification testing, failures or delays in the qualification process can result in our losing sales to that customer until the next generation of products is introduced. the effect of missing a product qualification opportunity is magnified by the limited number of high volume oems, which continue to consolidate their share of the pc and ce markets. if product life cycles lengthen, we may have a significantly longer period to wait before we have an opportunity to qualify a new product with a customer, which could harm our competitive position. these risks are increased because we expect cost improvements and competitive pressures to result in declining gross margins on our current generation products. we are subject to risks related to product defects, which could result in product recalls and could subject us to warranty claims in excess of our warranty provisions or which are greater than anticipated due to the unenforceability of liability limitations. we warrant the majority of our products for periods of one to five years. we test our hard drives in our manufacturing facilities through a variety of means. however, there can be no assurance that our testing will reveal latent defects in our products, which may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market. accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will occur, which could require a product recall. product recalls can be expensive to implement and, if a product recall occurs during the product warranty period, we may be required to replace the defective product. in addition, a product recall may damage our relationship with our customers, and we may lose market share with our customers, including our oem and odm customers. our standard warranties contain limits on damages and exclusions of liability for consequential damages and for misuse, improper installation, alteration, accident or mishandling while in the possession of someone other than us. we record an accrual for estimated warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. we may incur additional operating expenses if our warranty provision does not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues related to defects in our products. if these additional expenses are significant, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. a low cost structure is critical to our operating results and increased costs may adversely affect our operating margin. a low cost structure for our products, including critical components, labor and overhead, is critical to the success of our business, and our operating results depend on our ability to maintain competitive cost structures on new and established products. if our competitors are able to achieve a lower cost structure for manufacturing hard drives, and we are unable to match their cost structure, we could be at a competitive disadvantage to those competitors. shortages of commodity materials, price volatility, or use by other industries of materials used in the hard drive industry, may increase our cost structure. there are costs for certain commodity materials, an increase of which increases our costs of manufacturing and transporting hard drives and key components. shortages of materials such as stainless steel, aluminum, nickel, neodymium, ruthenium or platinum increase our costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to find ways to mitigate these increased costs. for example, in advance of the 2008 beijing summer olympics, in seeking to minimize pollution, the people republic of china shut down factories within a specified radius of beijing. these factory shut-downs may cause a future shortage in materials we use in nickel plating of magnetic media, causing prices to increase and adversely affecting our nickel plating costs. additionally, perpendicular recording technology requires increased usage of precious metals such as ruthenium and platinum, the price of which may continue to be volatile, which 20 table of contents could adversely affect our operating margins. furthermore, if other high volume industries increase their demand for materials such as these, our costs may further increase which could have an adverse effect on our operating margins. the volatility in the cost of oil also affects our transportation costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to pass these increased costs through to our customers. if we fail to maintain effective relationships with our major component suppliers, our supply of critical components may be at risk and our profitability could suffer. we make most of our own heads and media for some of our product families; however, we do not manufacture many of the component parts used in our hard drives. as a result, the success of our products depends on our ability to gain access to and integrate parts that are best in class from reliable component suppliers. to do so, we must effectively manage our relationships with our major component suppliers. we must also effectively integrate different products from a variety of suppliers, each of which employs variations on technology, which can impact, for example, feasible combinations of heads and media components. in august 2003, we settled litigation with a supplier who previously was the sole source of read channel devices for our hard drives. as a result of the disputes that gave rise to the litigation, our profitability was at risk until another supplier read channel devices could be designed into our products. similar disputes with other strategic component suppliers could adversely affect our operating results. violation of labor or environmental laws and practices by our suppliers or sub-suppliers could harm our business. we expect our suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including labor and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required supplier standards of conduct. while our internal operating guidelines promote ethical business practices, we do not control our suppliers or sub-suppliers or their labor or environmental practices. the violation of labor, environmental or other laws by any of our suppliers or sub-suppliers, or divergence of a supplier or sub-supplier labor or environmental practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the u.s., could harm our business by: interrupting or otherwise disrupting the shipment of our product components; damaging our reputation; forcing us to find alternate component sources; reducing demand for our products (for example, through a consumer boycott); or exposing us to potential liability for our supplier or sub-supplier wrongdoings. dependence on a limited number of qualified suppliers of components and manufacturing equipment could lead to delays, lost revenue or increased costs. certain components are available from a limited number of suppliers, and we are sole sourced with some of these suppliers on certain products. because we depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain hard drive components and manufacturing equipment, each of the following could significantly harm our operating results: an increase in the cost of such components or equipment; an extended shortage of required components or equipment; consolidation of key suppliers, such as the acquisition of brilliant manufacturing limited by nidec corporation, the acquisition of agere systems inc. by lsi corporation, the acquisition of infineon technologies hard drive semiconductor business by lsi corporation, the acquisition of alps electric co. ltd. magnetic device division assets and related intellectual property by tdk corp, and the acquisition of magnecomp precision technology public company limited by tdk corp; failure of a key supplier business process; or failure of key suppliers to remain in business, to remain independent merchant suppliers, to adjust to market conditions, or to meet our quality, yield or production requirements. 21 table of contents if components and equipment that we use are available from only a limited number of suppliers or are in short supply, it may negatively impact our production and cause us to lose revenue. our future operating results may also depend substantially on our suppliers ability to timely qualify their components in our programs, and their ability to supply us with these components in sufficient volumes to meet our production requirements. a number of the components that we use are available from only a single or limited number of qualified outside suppliers, and may be used across multiple product lines. in addition, some of the components (or component types) used in our products are used in other devices, such as mobile telephones and digital cameras. if there is a significant simultaneous upswing in demand for such a component (or component type) from several high volume industries, resulting in a supply reduction, or a component is otherwise in short supply, or if a supplier fails to qualify or has a quality issue with a component, we may experience delays or increased costs in obtaining that component. if we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of materials used in the manufacture of magnetic components, or other necessary components, we may experience production delays which could cause us loss of revenue. if a component becomes unavailable, we could suffer significant loss of revenue. in addition, certain equipment we use in our manufacturing or testing processes is available only from a limited number of suppliers. some of this equipment uses materials that at times could be in short supply. if these materials are not available, or are not available in the quantities we require for our manufacturing and testing processes, our ability to manufacture our products could be impacted, and we could suffer significant loss of revenue. contractual commitments with component suppliers may result in us paying increased charges and cash advances for such components. to reduce the risk of component shortages, we attempt to provide significant lead times when buying components. as a result, we may be subject to cancellation charges if we cancel orders, which may occur when we make technology transitions or when our component needs change. in addition, we have entered into contractual commitments with component suppliers and may enter into contractual commitments with other component suppliers, in an effort to increase and stabilize the supply of those components, and enable us to purchase such components at favorable prices. some of these commitments require or may require us to buy a substantial number of components from the supplier or make significant cash advances to the supplier; however, these commitments may not result in a satisfactory increase or stabilization of the supply of such components. failure by certain suppliers to effectively and efficiently develop and manufacture components for our products may adversely affect our operations. we rely on suppliers for various component parts that we integrate into our hard drives but do not manufacture ourselves, such as semiconductors, motors, flex circuits and suspensions. some of these components must be specifically designed to be compatible for use in our products, and are only available from a limited number of suppliers with whom we are sole sourced for certain products. we are therefore dependent on the suppliers of these various components to be able and willing to dedicate adequate engineering resources to develop technology that can be successfully integrated with our products, and to manufacture these components efficiently. the failure of component suppliers to effectively and efficiently develop and manufacture technology that can be integrated into our products may cause us to experience inability or delay in our manufacturing and shipment of hard drive products, or our expansion into new technology and markets, therefore adversely affecting our business and financial results. there are certain additional capital expenditure costs and asset utilization risks to our business associated with our strategy to vertically integrate our operations. our vertical integration of head and media manufacturing resulted in a fundamental change in our operating structure, as we now manufacture heads and media for use in many of the hard drives we manufacture. consequently, we make more capital investments than we would if we were not vertically integrated and carry a higher percentage of fixed costs than assumed in our prior financial business model. if the overall level of production decreases for any reason, and we are unable to reduce our fixed costs to match sales, our head or media manufacturing assets may face under-utilization that may impact our operating results. we are therefore subject to additional risks related to overall asset utilization, 22 table of contents including the need to operate at high levels of utilization to drive competitive costs and the need for assured supply of components that we do not manufacture ourselves. in addition, we may incur additional risks, including: failure to continue to leverage the integration of our media technology with our head technology; insufficient third party sources to satisfy our needs if we are unable to manufacture a sufficient supply of heads or media; third party head or media suppliers may not continue to do business with us or may not do business with us on the same terms and conditions we have previously enjoyed; claims that our manufacturing of heads or media may infringe certain intellectual property rights of other companies; and difficulties locating in a timely manner suitable manufacturing equipment for our head or media manufacturing processes and replacement parts for such equipment. if we do not adequately address the challenges related to our head or media manufacturing operations, our ongoing operations could be disrupted, resulting in a decrease in our revenue or profit margins and negatively impacting our operating results. if we are unable to timely and cost-effectively develop heads and media with leading technology and overall quality, our ability to sell our products may be significantly diminished, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. under our business plan, we are developing and manufacturing a substantial portion of the heads and media used in some of the hard drive products we manufacture. consequently, we are more dependent upon our own development and execution efforts and less able to take advantage of head and media technologies developed by other manufacturers. technology transition for head and media designs is critical to increasing our volume production of heads and media. there can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful in timely and cost-effectively developing and manufacturing heads or media for products using future technologies. we also may not effectively transition our head or media design and technology to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields using the technologies necessary to satisfy our customers product needs, or we may encounter quality problems with the heads or media we manufacture. in addition, we may not have access to external sources of supply without incurring substantial costs which would negatively impact our business and financial results. changes in product life cycles could adversely affect our financial results. if product life cycles lengthen, we may need to develop new technologies or programs to reduce our costs on any particular product to maintain competitive pricing for that product. if product life cycles shorten, it may result in an increase in our overall expenses and a decrease in our gross margins, both of which could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, shortening of product life cycles also make it more difficult to recover the cost of product development before the product becomes obsolete. our failure to recover the cost of product development in the future could adversely affect our operating results. if we fail to make the technical innovations necessary to continue to increase areal density, we may fail to remain competitive. new products in the hard drive market typically require higher areal densities than previous product generations, posing formidable technical and manufacturing challenges. higher areal densities require existing head and media technology to be improved or new technology developed to accommodate more data on a single disk. in addition, our introduction of new products during a technology transition increases the likelihood of unexpected quality concerns. our failure to bring high quality new products to market on time and at acceptable costs may put us at a competitive disadvantage to companies that achieve these results. 23 table of contents a fundamental change in recording technology could result in significant increases in our operating expenses and could put us at a competitive disadvantage. historically, when the industry experiences a fundamental change in technology, any manufacturer that fails to successfully and timely adjust its designs and processes to accommodate the new technology fails to remain competitive. there are some technologies, such as current-perpendicular-to-plane ( cpp ) and heat assisted magnetic recording ( hamr ), discrete track recording ( dtr ) and other similar potentially break through technology, that will represent revolutionary recording technologies if they can be implemented by a competitor on a commercially viable basis ahead of the industry, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. as a result of these technology shifts, we could incur substantial costs in developing new technologies, such as heads, media, and tools to remain competitive. if we fail to successfully implement these new technologies, or if we are significantly slower than our competitors at implementing new technologies, we may not be able to offer products with capacities that our customers desire. for example, new recording technology requires changes in the manufacturing process of heads and media, which may cause longer production times and reduce the overall availability of media in the industry. additionally, the new technology requires a greater degree of integration between heads and media which may lengthen our time of development of hard drives using this technology. furthermore, as we attempt to develop and implement new technologies, we may become more dependent on suppliers to ensure our access to components that accommodate the new technology. these results would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. the difficulty of introducing hard drives with higher levels of areal density and the challenges of reducing other costs may impact our ability to achieve historical levels of cost reduction. storage capacity of the hard drive, as manufactured by us, is determined by the number of disks and each disk areal density. areal density is a measure of the amount of magnetic bits that can be stored on the recording surface of the disk. generally, the higher the areal density, the more information can be stored on a single platter. historically, we have been able to achieve a large percentage of cost reduction through increases in areal density. increases in areal density mean that the average drive we sell has fewer heads and disks for the same capacity and, therefore, may result in a lower component cost. however, because increasing areal density has become more difficult in the hard drive industry, such increases may require increases in component costs, and other opportunities to reduce costs may not continue at historical rates. additionally, increases in areal density may require us to make further capital expenditures on items such as new testing equipment needed as a result of an increased number of gb per platter. our inability to achieve cost reductions could adversely affect our operating results. if we do not properly manage the technology transitions of our products, our operating results may be negatively affected. many of the markets in which we offer our products are undergoing technology transitions. for example, in order to handle higher data transfer rates, the pc and enterprise markets are transitioning from parallel interfaces, such as pata and scsi, to serial interfaces, such as sata and sas, respectively. we must effectively manage the transition of the features of our products to serial interfaces in order to remain competitive and cost effective. in the pc market, we currently offer pata and sata products and must timely and efficiently manage both our manufacture of pata products through their end of life and our ramp of sata products and features. if we fail to successfully manage the transition from parallel interfaces to serial interfaces, our operating results may suffer. our high-volume hard drive and media manufacturing facilities, and the manufacturing facilities of many of our suppliers, are concentrated in asia, which subjects us to the risk of damage or loss of any of these facilities and localized risks to employees in these locations. our high-volume hard drive and media manufacturing facilities are in malaysia and thailand and the manufacturing facilities of many of our suppliers are in asia. a condition or event such as political instability, civil unrest or a power outage, or a fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster that adversely affects any of these facilities or our ability to manufacture could limit the total volume of hard drives we are able to manufacture and result in a loss of sales and revenue and harm our operating results. similarly, a localized health risk affecting our employees or the staff of our suppliers, such as a new pandemic influenza in asia, could impair the total volume of hard drives that we are able to manufacture. 24 table of contents our head manufacturing operations include a single wafer fabrication facility in california and a single head gimbal assembly facility in thailand, and our media operations include four facilities in malaysia, which subjects us to substantial risk of damage or loss if operations at any of these facilities are disrupted. as we have previously discussed in public statements, our business plan presently contemplates that we will design and manufacture a substantial portion of the heads and media required for the hard drives we manufacture. we fabricate wafers in our fremont, california facility, and the wafers are then sent to our thailand facility for slider fabrication and wafer slicing and hga assembly and testing. additionally, we manufacture the majority of our media and substrates in four facilities in penang, johor and sarawak, malaysia. a fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster, condition or event such as a power outage that adversely affects any of these facilities would significantly affect supply of our heads or media, and limit our ability to manufacture hard drives which would result in a substantial loss of sales and revenue and a substantial harm to our operating results. our operating results will be adversely affected if we fail to optimize the overall quality, time-to-market and time-to-volume of new and established products. to achieve consistent success with our customers, we must balance several key attributes such as time-to-market, time-to-volume, quality, cost, service, price and a broad product portfolio. our operating results will be adversely affected if we fail to: maintain overall quality of products in new and established programs; produce sufficient quantities of products at the capacities our customers demand while managing the integration of new and established technologies; develop and qualify new products that have changes in overall specifications or features that our customers may require for their business needs; obtain commitments from our customers to qualify new products, redesigns of current products, or new components in our existing products; obtain customer qualification of these products on a timely basis by meeting all of our customers needs for performance, quality and features; maintain an adequate supply of components required to manufacture our products; or maintain the manufacturing capability to quickly change our product mix between different capacities, form factors and spin speeds in response to changes in customers product demands. manufacturing and marketing our products abroad subjects us to numerous risks. we are subject to risks associated with our foreign manufacturing operations and foreign marketing efforts, including: obtaining requisite u.s. and foreign governmental permits and approvals; currency exchange rate fluctuations or restrictions; political instability and civil unrest; limited transportation availability, delays, and extended time required for shipping, which risks may be compounded in periods of price declines; higher freight rates; labor problems; trade restrictions or higher tariffs; copyright levies or similar fees imposed in european and other countries: exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations; 25 table of contents increasing labor and overhead costs; and loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities. terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business and operating results. the continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility have created uncertainty in the financial and insurance markets and have significantly increased the political, economic and social instability in some of the geographic areas in which we operate. additionally, it is uncertain what impact the reactions to such acts by various governmental agencies and security regulators worldwide will have on shipping costs. acts of terrorism, either domestically or abroad, could create further uncertainties and instability. to the extent this results in disruption or delays of our manufacturing capabilities or shipments of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. sudden disruptions to the availability of freight lanes could have an impact on our operations. we ship the majority of our products to our various customers via air freight. the sudden unavailability of air cargo operations used to ship our products would impair our ability to deliver our products in a timely and efficient manner, which could adversely impact our operating results. we also ship a portion of our product via ocean freight, and events or conditions at shipping ports, such as labor difficulties or disputes, could also impact our operating results by impairing our ability to timely and efficiently deliver these products. we are vulnerable to system failures, which could harm our business. we are heavily dependent on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to operate our factories, sell our products, fulfill orders, manage inventory and bill, collect and make payments. our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and other events. our business is also subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism by third parties as well as employees. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our business, which could harm our reputation and financial condition. we may be unable to retain our key staff and skilled employees. our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key staff and skilled employees, many of whom would be extremely difficult to replace. worldwide competition for skilled employees in the hard drive industry is intense. volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to retain key staff or skilled employees who have received equity compensation. if we are unable to retain our existing key staff or skilled employees, or hire and integrate new key staff or skilled employees, or if we fail to implement succession plans for our key staff, our operating results would likely be harmed. the nature of our business and our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk of significant litigation. the hard drive industry has been characterized by significant litigation. this includes litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights, product liability claims and other types of litigation. litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. moreover, the results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may result in adverse rulings or decisions. we may enter into settlements or be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. we evaluate notices of alleged patent infringement and notices of patents from patent holders that we receive from time to time. if claims or actions are asserted against us, we may be required to obtain a license or cross-license, modify our existing technology or design a new non-infringing technology. such licenses or design modifications can be extremely costly. in addition, we may decide to settle a claim or action against us, which settlement could be costly. we may also be liable for any past infringement. if there is an adverse ruling against us in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued barring production or sale of any infringing product. it could also result in a damage award 26 table of contents equal to a reasonable royalty or lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement, treble damages. any of these results would increase our costs and harm our operating results. our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients of our business could be copied by competitors. our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary nature of our technology, including non-patentable intellectual property such as our process technology. despite safeguards, to the extent that a competitor is able to reproduce or otherwise capitalize on our technology, it may be difficult, expensive or impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. also, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. in addition to patent protection of intellectual property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. we rely upon employee, consultant and vendor non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. however, any of our registered or unregistered intellectual property rights may be challenged or exploited by others in the industry, which might harm our operating results. environmental regulation costs could harm our operating results. we may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of certain products. such laws and regulations have been passed in several jurisdictions in which we operate. for example, the european union has enacted the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ( rohs ) directive, which prohibits the use of certain substances in electronic equipment, and the waste electrical and electronic equipment ( weee ) directive, which obligates parties that place electrical and electronic equipment onto the market in the eu to put a clearly identifiable mark on the equipment, register with and report to eu member countries regarding distribution of the equipment, and provide a mechanism to take-back and properly dispose of the equipment. similar legislation may be enacted in other locations where we manufacture or sell our products. we will need to ensure that we comply with such laws and regulations as they are enacted, and that our component suppliers also timely comply with such laws and regulations. if we fail to timely comply with the legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our products, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in connection with our compliance with such environmental laws and regulations, we could incur substantial costs and be subject to disruptions to our operations and logistics. in addition, if we were found to be in violation of these laws, we could be subject to governmental fines and liability to our customers. if we have to make significant capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws, or if we are subject to significant expenses in connection with a violation of these laws, our financial condition or operating results could suffer. fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations may negatively affect our operating results. because we manufacture our products abroad, our operating costs are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. further fluctuations in the exchange rate of the thai baht and of the malaysian ringgit may negatively impact our operating results. the thai baht is a free floating currency while the malaysian ringgit exchange rate policy is one of a managed float. we have attempted to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into short-term, forward contracts. however, these contracts do not cover our full exposure and can be canceled by the issuer if currency controls are put in place. currently, we hedge the thai baht, malaysian ringgit, euro and british pound sterling with forward contracts. if the u.s. dollar exhibits sustained weakness against most foreign currencies, the u.s. dollar equivalents of unhedged manufacturing costs could increase because a significant portion of our production costs are foreign-currency denominated. conversely, there would not be an offsetting impact to revenues since revenues are substantially u.s. dollar denominated. 27 table of contents increases in our customers credit risk could result in credit losses and an increase in our operating costs. some of our oem customers have adopted a subcontractor model that requires us to contract directly with companies, such as odms, that provide manufacturing services to our oem customers. because these subcontractors are generally not as well capitalized as our direct oem customers, this subcontractor model exposes us to increased credit risks. our agreements with our oem customers may not permit us to increase our product prices to alleviate this increased credit risk. additionally, as we attempt to expand our oem and distribution channel sales into emerging economies such as brazil, russia, india and china, the customers in these regions may have relatively short operating histories, making it more difficult for us to accurately assess the associated credit risks. any credit losses we may suffer as a result of these increased risks, or as a result of credit losses from any significant customer, would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. negative conditions in the credit markets could result in a decrease in sales and lower revenue in the distribution channel. many of our customers in the distribution channel rely on credit financing in order to purchase our products. if the recent negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers access to credit, product orders in the distribution channel may decrease which could result in lower revenue. inaccurate projections of demand for our product can cause large fluctuations in our quarterly results. we often ship a high percentage of our total quarterly sales in the third month of the quarter, which makes it difficult for us to forecast our financial results before the end of the quarter. in addition, our quarterly projections and results may be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a number of other factors including: the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major customers; our product mix; changes in the prices of our products; manufacturing delays or interruptions; acceptance by customers of competing products in lieu of our products; variations in the cost of components for our products; limited availability of components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; competition and consolidation in the data storage industry; seasonal and other fluctuations in demand for pcs often due to technological advances; and availability and rates of transportation. rapidly changing conditions in the hard drive industry make it difficult to predict actual results. we have made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting. the highly technical nature of our products and the rapidly changing market conditions with which we deal means that actual results may differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions. these changes have impacted our financial results in the past and may continue to do so in the future. key estimates and assumptions for us include: price protection adjustments and other sales promotions and allowances on products sold to retailers, resellers and distributors; inventory adjustments for write-down of inventories to lower of cost or market value (net realizable value); reserves for doubtful accounts; accruals for product returns; accruals for warranty costs related to product defects; accruals for litigation and other contingencies; and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits. 28 table of contents the market price of our common stock is volatile. the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, extremely volatile. factors such as the following may significantly affect the market price of our common stock: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors which may decrease the volume and profitability of sales of our existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence; new products introduced by us or our competitors; periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price erosion resulting from competitive pressures or industry consolidation; developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; conditions and trends in the hard drive, computer, data and content management, storage and communication industries; growth rates that are lower than our previous high growth-rate periods; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts relating specifically to us or the hard drive industry in general; and macroeconomic conditions that affect the market generally. in addition, general economic conditions may cause the stock market to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations from time to time that particularly affect the stock prices of many high technology companies. these fluctuations often appear to be unrelated to the operating performance of the companies. securities class action lawsuits are often brought against companies after periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. a number of such suits have been filed against us in the past, and should any new lawsuits be filed, such matters could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources and management attention. negative conditions in the global credit markets may impair the liquidity of a portion of our investment portfolio. our long-term investments consist of auction-rate securities totaling $28 million as of june 27, 2008. the recent negative conditions in the global credit markets have prevented some investors from liquidating their holdings of auction-rate securities because the amount of securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders for such securities. if the credit market does not improve, auctions for our invested amounts may fail. if an auction fails for securities in which we have invested, we may be unable to liquidate some or all of our auction-rate securities at par, should we need or desire to access the funds invested in those securities. in the event we need or desire to access these funds, we will not be able to do so until a future auction on these investments is successful or a buyer is found outside the auction process. if a buyer is found but is unwilling to purchase the investments at par, we may incur a loss. for example, during the year ended june 27, 2008, the market values of some of the auction-rate securities we owned were impacted by the macro-economic credit market conditions and as a result, we recognized $10 million of other-than-temporary losses to mark the remaining investments to estimated market value. further, rating downgrades of the security issuer or the third-parties insuring such investments may require us to adjust the carrying value of these investments through an additional impairment charge. if our internal controls are found to be ineffective, our financial results or our stock price may be adversely affected. our most recent evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of june 27, 2008, in compliance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, our internal control over financial reporting was effective. we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place for future periods; however, if our internal control over financial reporting is found to be ineffective, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which may adversely affect our financial results or our stock price. 29 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk disclosure about foreign currency risk although the majority of our transactions are in u.s. dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. we purchase short-term, forward exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. the purpose of entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. the contract maturity dates do not exceed 12 months. we do not purchase short-term forward exchange contracts for trading purposes. currently, we focus on hedging our foreign currency risk related to the thai baht, malaysian ringgit, euro and the british pound sterling. malaysian ringgit contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. euro and british pound sterling contracts are designated as fair value hedges. thai baht contracts are designated as both cash flow and fair value hedges. see part ii, item 8, note 1 in the notes to consolidated financial statements, included in this annual report on form 10-k. 44 table of contents as of june 27, 2008, we had outstanding the following purchased foreign currency forward exchange contracts (in millions, except weighted average contract rate): contract weighted average unrealized amount contract rate* loss foreign currency forward contracts: thai baht cash flow hedges $ 733 33.22 $ (9 ) thai baht fair value hedges $ 144 33.63 malaysian ringgit cash flow hedges $ 359 3.23 $ (3 ) euro fair value hedges $ 14 0.64 * expressed in units of foreign currency per dollar. in 2008, 2007 and 2006, total net realized transaction and forward exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to our consolidated financial statements. disclosure about other market risks variable interest rate risk borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at a rate equal to, at the option of wdti, either (a) a libor rate determined by reference to the cost of funds for eurodollar deposits for the interest period relevant to such borrowing, adjusted for certain additional costs (the eurocurrency rate ) or (b) a base rate determined by reference to the higher of (i) the federal funds rate plus 0.50% and (ii) the prime rate as announced by jpmorgan chase bank, n.a. (the base rate ), in each case plus an applicable margin. the applicable margin for borrowings under the term loan facility ranges from 1.25% to 1.50% with respect to borrowings at the eurocurrency rate and 0.0% to 0.125% with respect to borrowings at the base rate. the applicable margin for revolving loan borrowings under the revolving credit facility ranges from 0.8% to 1.125% with respect to borrowings at the eurocurrency rate and 0.0% to 0.125% with respect to borrowings at the base rate. the applicable margins for borrowings under the credit facility are determined based upon a leverage ratio of the company and its subsidiaries calculated on a consolidated basis. if either the base rate or libor rate increase, our interest payments would also increase. a one percent increase in the variable rate of interest on the credit facility would increase interest expense by approximately $5 million annually. credit market risk our long-term investments consist of auction-rate securities totaling $28 million as of june 27, 2008. the recent negative conditions in the global credit markets have prevented us from liquidating some of our holdings of auction-rate securities because the amount of securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders for such securities. if the credit market does not improve, auctions for our invested amounts may continue to fail. if this occurs, we may be unable to liquidate some or all of our auction-rate securities at par should we need or desire to access the funds invested in those securities prior to maturity of the underlying assets. in the event we need or desire to access these funds, we will not be able to do so until a future auction on these investments is successful or a buyer is found outside the auction process. if a buyer is found but is unwilling to purchase the investments at par, we may incur a loss. the market values of some of the auction-rate securities we owned were impacted by the macro-economic credit market conditions. rating downgrades of the security issuer or the third-parties insuring such investments may require us to adjust the carrying value of these investments through an impairment charge. based on our ability to access our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, our expected operating cash flows and our other sources of cash, we do not anticipate these investments will affect our ability to execute our current business plan. 45risk factors 17 risk factors negative worldwide economic conditions could continue to result in a decrease in our sales and revenue and an increase in our operating costs, which could continue to adversely affect our business and operating results. if the current worldwide economic downturn continues, many of our direct and indirect customers may delay or reduce their purchases of our products and systems containing our products. in addition, many of our customers in each of the oem, distribution and retail channels rely on credit financing in order to purchase our products. if the negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers access to credit, product orders in these channels may decrease, which could result in lower revenue. likewise, if our suppliers face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may become unable to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products. these actions could result in reductions in our revenue, increased price competition and increased operating costs, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. negative worldwide economic conditions could prevent us from accurately forecasting demand for our products, which could adversely affect our operating results or market share. the current negative worldwide economic conditions and market instability make it increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers to accurately forecast future product demand trends, which could cause us to produce excess products that can depress product prices, increase our inventory carrying costs and result in obsolete inventory. alternatively, this forecasting difficulty could cause a shortage of products, or materials used in our products, that could result in an inability to satisfy demand for our products and a loss of market share. for a further discussion of these risks, please see the risk factor below entitled our failure to accurately forecast market and customer demand for our products could adversely affect our business and financial results or operating efficiencies. negative global economic conditions increase the risk that we could suffer unrecoverable losses on our customers accounts receivable, which would adversely affect our financial results. we extend credit and payment terms to some of our customers. in addition to ongoing credit evaluations of our customers financial condition, we traditionally seek to mitigate our credit risk by purchasing credit insurance on certain of our accounts receivable balances; however, as a result of the current negative worldwide economic conditions, we may find it increasingly difficult to be able to insure these accounts receivable. we could suffer significant losses if a customer whose accounts receivable we have not insured, or have underinsured, fails and is unable to pay us. additionally, if global economic conditions worsen, the risk increases that if a customer whose accounts receivable we have insured fails, the financial condition of the insurance carrier for such customer account may have also deteriorated such that it cannot cover our loss. a significant loss of an accounts receivable that we cannot recover through credit insurance would have a negative impact on our financial results. 17 table of contents if the worldwide economic downturn worsens, we may have to take additional steps to align our cost structure with demand, which could result in increased impairment charges and have a negative impact on our operating results. as we previously announced, we committed to a business restructuring plan intended to realign our cost structure with a softer demand environment. if the worldwide economic downturn worsens and demand were to soften further, we may be forced to execute additional restructuring activities to realign our cost structure with softening demand. additional restructuring activities could result in impairment charges and other expenses in excess of what we anticipated when we previously announced our restructuring plan, either of which could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. if our long-lived assets or goodwill become impaired, it may adversely affect our operating results. if the current worldwide economic downturn continues, it could result in circumstances, such as a sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization or a decrease in our forecasted cash flows such that they are insufficient, indicating that the carrying value of our long-lived assets or goodwill may be impaired. if we are required to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements because an impairment of our long-lived assets or goodwill is determined, our results of operations will be adversely affected. declines in average selling prices ( asps ) in the hard drive industry could adversely affect our operating results. historically, the hard drive industry has experienced declining asps. our asps tend to decline when competitors lower prices as a result of decreased costs or to absorb excess capacity, liquidate excess inventories, restructure or attempt to gain market share. our asps also decline when there is a shift in the mix of product sales, and sales of lower priced products increase relative to those of higher priced products. when asps in the hard drive industry decline, our asps are also likely to decline, which adversely affects our operating results. if we fail to anticipate or timely respond to changes in the markets for hard drives, our operating results could be adversely affected. during past economic downturns, as well as over the past few years, the consumer market for computers has shifted significantly towards lower priced systems, and we therefore expect this trend to continue in light of the current negative worldwide macroeconomic conditions. if we are not able to continue to offer a competitively priced hard drive for the low-cost pc market, our share of that market will likely fall, which could harm our operating results. the market for hard drives is also fragmenting into a variety of devices and products. many industry analysts expect, as do we, that as content increasingly converts to digital technology from the older analog technology, the technology of computers and consumer electronics will continue to converge, and hard drives may be found in many products other than computers, such as various ce devices. accurately forecasting for future requirements of these new markets remains challenging. moreover, some devices such as personal video recorders and digital video recorders, or some new pc operating systems which allow greater consumer choice in levels of functionality and therefore greater market differentiation, may require attributes not currently offered in our products, resulting in a need to develop new interfaces, form factors, technical specifications or product features, increasing our overall operational expense without corresponding incremental revenue at this stage. if we are not successful in continuing to deploy our hard drive technology and expertise to develop new products for emerging markets such as the ce market, or if we are required to incur significant costs in developing such products, it may harm our operating results. our prices and margins are subject to declines due to unpredictable end-user demand and oversupply of hard drives. demand for our hard drives depends on the demand for systems manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems. the demand for systems has been volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand for hard drives in any given period. as a result, the hard drive market has experienced periods of excess capacity which can lead to liquidation of excess inventories and intense price competition. if intense price competition occurs, we may be forced to lower prices sooner and more than expected, which could result in lower revenue and gross margins. 18 table of contents our failure to accurately forecast market and customer demand for our products could adversely affect our business and financial results or operating efficiencies. the data storage industry faces difficulties in accurately forecasting market and customer demand for its products. the variety and volume of products we manufacture is based in part on these forecasts. if our forecasts exceed actual market demand, or if market demand decreases significantly from our forecasts, then we could experience periods of product oversupply and price decreases, which could impact our financial performance. if our forecasts do not meet actual market demand, or if market demand increases significantly beyond our forecasts or beyond our ability to add manufacturing capacity, then we may not be able to satisfy customer product needs, which could result in a loss of market share if our competitors are able to meet customer demands. although we receive forecasts from our customers, they are not generally obligated to purchase the forecasted amounts. sales volumes in the distribution and retail channels are volatile and harder to predict than sales to our oem or odm customers. we consider these forecasts in determining our component needs and our inventory requirements. if we fail to accurately forecast our customers product demands, we may have inadequate or excess inventory of our products or components, which could adversely affect our operating results. in order to efficiently and timely meet the demands of many of our oem customers, we position our products in multiple strategic locations based on the amounts forecasted by such customers. if an oem customer actual product demands decrease significantly from its forecast, then we may incur additional costs in relocating the products that have not been purchased by the oem. this could result in a delay in our product sales and an increase in our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. increases in areal density may outpace customers demand for storage capacity, which may lower the prices our customers are willing to pay for new products or put us at a disadvantage to competing technologies. historically, the industry has experienced periods of variable areal density growth rates. when the rate of areal density growth increases, the rate of increase may exceed the increase in our customers demand for aggregate storage capacity. furthermore, our customers demand for storage capacity may not continue to grow at current industry estimates as a result of developments in the regulation and enforcement of digital rights management, the emergence of processes such as cloud computing, data deduplication and storage virtualization, or otherwise. these factors could lead to our customers storage capacity needs being satisfied at lower prices with lower capacity hard drives or solid-state storage products that we do not offer, thereby decreasing our revenue or putting us at a disadvantage to competing storage technologies. as a result, even with increasing aggregate demand for storage capacity, our asps could decline, which could adversely affect our operating results. our entry into additional storage markets increases the complexity of our business, and if we are unable to successfully adapt our business processes as required by these new markets, we will be at a competitive disadvantage and our ability to grow will be adversely affected. as we expand our product line to sell into additional storage markets, the overall complexity of our business increases at an accelerated rate and we must make necessary adaptations to our business model to address these complexities. for example, as we have previously disclosed, we have been investing in technology to develop and support a product line to sell to mainstream enterprise market customers. in addition to requiring significant capital expenditures, our entry into the mainstream enterprise market adds complexity to our business that requires us to effectively adapt our business and management processes to address the unique challenges and different requirements of the mainstream enterprise market, while maintaining a competitive operating cost model. if we fail or are delayed in our attempts to enter into the mainstream enterprise storage market, we will remain at a competitive disadvantage to the companies that serve this market and our ability to continue our growth will be negatively affected. expansion into new hard drive markets may cause our capital expenditures to increase, and if we do not successfully expand into new markets, our business may suffer. to remain a significant supplier of hard drives, we will need to offer a broad range of hard drive products to our customers. we currently offer a variety of 3.5-inch or 2.5-inch hard drives for the desktop, mobile, enterprise, ce and external storage markets. however, demand for hard drives may shift to products in form factors or with interfaces that 19 table of contents our competitors offer but which we do not. expansion into other hard drive markets and resulting increases in manufacturing capacity requirements may require us to make substantial additional investments in part because our operations are largely vertically integrated now that we manufacture heads and magnetic media for use in many of the hard drives we manufacture. if we fail to successfully expand into new hard drive markets with products that we do not currently offer, we may lose business to our competitors who offer these products. if we fail to successfully manage our new product development or new market expansion, or if we fail to anticipate the issues associated with such development or expansion, our business may suffer. while we continue to develop new products and look to expand into new markets, the success of our new product introductions depends on a number of factors, including our ability to anticipate and manage a variety of issues associated with these new products and new markets, such as: difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp; market acceptance; effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand; and quality problems or other defects in the early stages of new product introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products. further, we need to identify how any of the new markets into which we are expanding may have different characteristics from the markets in which we currently exist and properly address these differences. these characteristics may include: demand volume requirements; demand seasonality; product generation development rates; customer concentrations; warranty expectations and product return policies; and cost, performance and compatibility requirements. our business may suffer if we fail to successfully anticipate and manage these issues associated with our product development and market expansion. for example, our branded products are designed to attach to and interoperate with a wide variety of pc and ce devices, and therefore their functionality relies on the manufacturer of such devices, or the associated operating systems, enabling the manufacturer devices to operate with our branded products. if our branded products are not compatible with a wide variety of devices, or if device manufacturers design their devices so that our branded products cannot operate with them, and we cannot quickly and efficiently adapt our branded products to address these compatibility issues, our business could suffer. expanding into new markets exposes our business to different seasonal demand cycles, which in turn could adversely affect our operating results. the ce and retail markets have different seasonal pricing and volume demand cycles as compared to the pc market. by expanding into these markets, we became exposed to seasonal fluctuations that are different from, and in addition to, those of the pc market. for example, because the primary customer for our branded products are individual consumers, this market has historically experienced a dramatic increase in demand during the winter holiday season. if we do not properly adjust our supply to these new demand cycles, we risk having excess inventory during periods of low demand and insufficient inventory during periods of high demand, which could adversely affect our operating results. 20 table of contents selling to the retail market is an important part of our business, and if consumer spending continues to decrease, or if we fail to maintain and grow our market share or gain market acceptance of our branded products, our operating results could suffer. selling branded products is an important part of our business, and as our branded products revenue increases as a portion of our overall revenue, our success in the retail market becomes increasingly important to our operating results. if consumer spending continues to decrease as a result of the current worldwide economic downturn, our operating results could suffer because of the increased importance of our branded products business. we sell our branded products directly to a select group of major retailers, such as computer superstores and ce stores, and authorize sales through distributors to other retailers and online resellers. our current retail customer base is primarily in the u.s., canada and europe. we are facing increased competition from other companies for shelf space at a small number of major retailers that have strong buying power and pricing leverage. if we are unable to maintain effective working relationships with major retailers and online resellers, our competitive position in the branded product market may suffer and our operating results may be adversely affected. in addition, if customers no longer maintain a preference for wd - brand products or if we fail to successfully expand into multiple channels, our operating results may be adversely affected. additionally, we face strong competition in maintaining and trying to grow our market share in the retail market, particularly because of the relatively low barriers to entry in this market. for example, several additional hard drive manufacturers have recently disclosed plans to expand into the external storage market, and as these companies attempt to gain market share, we may have difficulty in maintaining or growing our market share and there may be increased downward pressure on pricing. we will continue to introduce new products in the retail market that incorporate our disk drives; however, there can be no assurance that these products will gain market acceptance, and if they do not, our operating results could suffer. loss of market share with or by a key customer, or consolidation among our customer base, could harm our operating results. during the year ended july 3, 2009, a large percentage of our revenue, 48%, came from sales to our top 10 customers. these customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial demands on us, including demands on product pricing and on contractual terms, which often results in the allocation of risk to us as the supplier. even if we successfully qualify a product with a customer, the customer is not generally obligated to purchase any minimum volume of products from us and may be able to cancel an order or terminate its relationship with us at any time. our ability to maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is essential to our future performance. if we lose a key customer, if any of our key customers reduce their orders of our products or require us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, if a customer is acquired by one of our competitors or if a key customer suffers financial hardship, our operating results would likely be harmed. additionally, if there is consolidation among our customer base, our customers may be able to command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. in addition, if, as a result of increased leverage, customer pressures require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, we could decide not to sell our products to a particular customer, which could result in a decrease in our revenue. consolidation among our customer base may also lead to reduced demand for our products, replacement of our products by the combined entity with those of our competitors and cancellations of orders, each of which could harm our operating results. current or future competitors may gain a technology advantage or develop an advantageous cost structure that we cannot match. it may be possible for our current or future competitors to gain an advantage in product technology, manufacturing technology, or process technology, which may allow them to offer products or services that have a significant advantage over the products and services that we offer. advantages could be in capacity, performance, reliability, serviceability, or other attributes. we may be at a competitive disadvantage to any companies that are able to gain these advantages. 21 table of contents further industry consolidation could provide competitive advantages to our competitors. the hard drive industry has experienced consolidation over the past several years. consolidation by our competitors may enhance their capacity, abilities and resources and lower their cost structure, causing us to be at a competitive disadvantage. additionally, continued industry consolidation may lead to uncertainty in areas such as component availability, which could negatively impact our cost structure. sales in the distribution channel are important to our business, and if we fail to maintain brand preference with our distributors or if distribution markets for hard drives weaken, our operating results could suffer. our distribution customers typically sell to small computer manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators and other resellers. we face significant competition in this channel as a result of limited product qualification programs and a significant focus on price and availability of product. if we fail to remain competitive in terms of our technology, quality, service and support, our distribution customers may favor our competitors, and our operating results could suffer. we also face significant risk in the distribution market for hard drives. if the distribution market weakens as a result of a slowing pc growth rate, technology transitions or a significant change in consumer buying preference from white box to branded pcs, or if we experience significant price declines due to oversupply in the distribution channel, then our operating results would be adversely affected. the hard drive industry is highly competitive and can be characterized by significant shifts in market share among the major competitors. the price of hard drives has fallen over time due to increases in supply, cost reductions, technological advances and price reductions by competitors seeking to liquidate excess inventories or attempting to gain market share. in addition, rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and profitability of sales of existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence. these factors, taken together, may result in significant shifts in market share among the industry major participants. in addition, product recalls can lead to a loss of market share, which could adversely affect our operating results. some of our competitors with diversified business units outside the hard drive industry may over extended periods of time sell hard drives at prices that we cannot profitably match. some of our competitors earn a significant portion of their revenue from business units outside the hard drive industry. because they do not depend solely on sales of hard drives to achieve profitability, they may sell hard drives at lower prices and operate their hard drive business unit at a loss over an extended period of time while still remaining profitable overall. in addition, if these competitors can increase sales of non-hard drive products to the same customers, they may benefit from selling their hard drives at lower prices. our operating results may be adversely affected if we cannot successfully compete with the pricing by these companies. if we fail to qualify our products with our customers or if product life cycles lengthen, it may have a significant adverse impact on our sales and margins. we regularly engage in new product qualification with our customers. once a product is accepted for qualification testing, failures or delays in the qualification process can result in delayed or reduced product sales, reduced product margins caused by having to continue to offer a more costly current generation product, or lost sales to that customer until the next generation of products is introduced. the effect of missing a product qualification opportunity is magnified by the limited number of high volume oems, which continue to consolidate their share of the storage markets. likewise, if product life cycles lengthen, we may have a significantly longer period to wait before we have an opportunity to qualify a new product with a customer, which could reduce our profits because we expect declining gross margins on our current generation products as a result of competitive pressures. we are subject to risks related to product defects, which could result in product recalls and could subject us to warranty claims in excess of our warranty provisions or which are greater than anticipated due to the unenforceability of liability limitations. we warrant the majority of our products for periods of one to five years. we test our hard drives in our manufacturing facilities through a variety of means. however, there can be no assurance that our testing will reveal latent 22 table of contents defects in our products, which may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market. accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will occur, which could require a product recall. product recalls can be expensive to implement and, if a product recall occurs during the product warranty period, we may be required to replace the defective product. in addition, a product recall may damage our relationship with our customers, and we may lose market share with our customers, including our oem and odm customers. our standard warranties contain limits on damages and exclusions of liability for consequential damages and for misuse, improper installation, alteration, accident or mishandling while in the possession of someone other than us. we record an accrual for estimated warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. we may incur additional operating expenses if our warranty provision does not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues related to defects in our products. if these additional expenses are significant, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. a competitive cost structure is critical to our operating results, and increased costs may adversely affect our operating margin. a competitive cost structure for our products, including critical components, labor and overhead, is critical to the success of our business, and our operating results depend on our ability to maintain competitive cost structures on new and established products. if our competitors are able to achieve a lower cost structure that we are unable to match, we could be at a competitive disadvantage to those competitors. shortages of commodity materials, price volatility, or use by other industries of materials used in the hard drive industry, may increase our cost structure. increases in the cost for certain commodity materials may increase our costs of manufacturing and transporting hard drives and key components. shortages of materials such as stainless steel, aluminum, nickel, neodymium, ruthenium or platinum increase our costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to find ways to mitigate these increased costs. for example, perpendicular recording technology requires increased usage of precious metals such as ruthenium and platinum, the price of which may continue to be volatile, which could adversely affect our operating margins. furthermore, if other high volume industries increase their demand for materials such as these, our costs may further increase, which could have an adverse effect on our operating margins. the volatility in the cost of oil also affects our transportation costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to pass these increased costs through to our customers. if we fail to maintain effective relationships with our major component suppliers, our supply of critical components may be at risk and our profitability could suffer. we make most of our own heads and magnetic media for some of our product families; however, we do not manufacture many of the component parts used in our hard drives. as a result, the success of our products depends on our ability to gain access to and integrate parts from reliable component suppliers. to do so, we must effectively manage our relationships with our major component suppliers. we must also effectively integrate different products from a variety of suppliers, each of which employs variations on technology, which can impact, for example, feasible combinations of heads and magnetic media components. for example, in august 2003, we settled litigation with a supplier who previously was the sole source of read channel devices for our hard drives. as a result of the disputes that gave rise to the litigation, our profitability was at risk until another supplier read channel devices could be designed into our products. similar disputes with other strategic component suppliers could adversely affect our operating results. violation of labor or environmental laws and practices by our suppliers or sub-suppliers could harm our business. we expect our suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including labor and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required supplier standards of conduct. while our internal operating guidelines promote ethical business practices, we do not control our suppliers or sub-suppliers or their labor or environmental practices. the violation of labor, environmental or other laws by any of our suppliers or sub-suppliers, or divergence of a supplier or sub-supplier labor or environmental practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the u.s., could harm our business by: interrupting or otherwise disrupting the shipment of our product components; 23 table of contents damaging our reputation; forcing us to find alternate component sources; reducing demand for our products (for example, through a consumer boycott); or exposing us to potential liability for our supplier or sub-supplier wrongdoings. dependence on a limited number of qualified suppliers of components and manufacturing equipment could lead to delays, lost revenue or increased costs. certain components are available from a limited number of suppliers, and we are sole sourced with some of these suppliers on certain products. because we depend on a limited number of suppliers for certain product components and manufacturing equipment, each of the following could significantly harm our operating results: an unwillingness of a supplier to supply such components or equipment to us; an increase in the cost of such components or equipment; an extended shortage of required components or equipment; consolidation of key suppliers, such as the acquisition of brilliant manufacturing limited by nidec corporation, the acquisition of agere systems inc. by lsi corporation, the acquisition of infineon technologies hard drive semiconductor business by lsi corporation, the acquisition of alps electric co. ltd. magnetic device division assets and related intellectual property by tdk corp, and the acquisition of magnecomp precision technology public company limited by tdk corp; failure of a key supplier business process; a key supplier or sub-supplier inability to access credit necessary to operate its business; or failure of a key supplier to remain in business, to remain an independent merchant supplier, to adjust to market conditions, or to meet our quality, yield or production requirements. if components and equipment that we use are available from only a limited number of suppliers or are in short supply, it may negatively impact our production and cause us to lose revenue. our future operating results may also depend substantially on our suppliers ability to timely qualify their components in our programs, and their ability to supply us with these components in sufficient volumes to meet our production requirements. a number of the components that we use are available from only a single or limited number of qualified suppliers, and may be used across multiple product lines. in addition, some of the components (or component types) used in our products are used in other devices, such as mobile telephones and digital cameras. if there is a significant simultaneous upswing in demand for such a component (or component type) from several high volume industries resulting in a supply reduction, if a component is otherwise in short supply, or if a supplier fails to qualify or has a quality issue with a component, we may experience delays or increased costs in obtaining that component. if we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of materials used in the manufacture of magnetic components, or other necessary components, we may experience production delays which could cause us loss of revenue. if a component becomes unavailable, we could suffer significant loss of revenue. in addition, certain equipment we use in our manufacturing or testing processes is available only from a limited number of suppliers. some of this equipment uses materials that at times could be in short supply. if these materials are not available, or are not available in the quantities we require for our manufacturing and testing processes, our ability to manufacture our products could be impacted, and we could suffer significant loss of revenue. contractual commitments with component suppliers may result in us paying increased charges and cash advances for such components or may cause us to have inadequate or excess component inventory. to reduce the risk of component shortages, we attempt to provide significant lead times when buying components which may subject us to cancellation charges if we cancel orders as a result of technology transitions or changes in our component needs. in addition, we may from time to time enter into contractual commitments with component suppliers 24 table of contents in an effort to increase and stabilize the supply of those components and enable us to purchase such components at favorable prices. some of these commitments may require us to buy a substantial number of components from the supplier or make significant cash advances to the supplier; however, these commitments may not result in a satisfactory increase or stabilization of the supply of such components. furthermore, as a result of the current negative worldwide economic conditions, our ability to forecast our requirements for these components has become increasingly difficult, therefore increasing the risk that our contractual commitments may not meet our actual supply requirements, which could cause us to have inadequate or excess component inventory and adversely affect our operating results and increase our operating costs. failure by certain suppliers to effectively and efficiently develop and manufacture components, technology or production equipment for our products may adversely affect our operations. we rely on suppliers for various component parts that we integrate into our hard drives but do not manufacture ourselves, such as semiconductors, motors, flex circuits and suspensions. likewise, we rely on suppliers for certain technology and equipment necessary for advanced development technology for future products. some of these components, and most of this technology and production equipment, must be specifically designed to be compatible for use in our products or for developing and manufacturing our future products, and are only available from a limited number of suppliers, some of with whom we are sole sourced. we are therefore dependent on these suppliers to be able and willing to dedicate adequate engineering resources to develop components that can be successfully integrated with our products, and technology and production equipment that can be used to develop and manufacture our next-generation products efficiently. the failure of these suppliers to effectively and efficiently develop and manufacture components that can be integrated into our products or technology and production equipment that can be used to develop or manufacture next generation products may cause us to experience inability or delay in our manufacturing and shipment of hard drive products, our expansion into new technology and markets, or our ability to remain competitive with alternative storage technologies, therefore adversely affecting our business and financial results. there are certain additional capital expenditure costs and asset utilization risks to our business associated with our strategy to vertically integrate our operations. our vertical integration of head and magnetic media manufacturing resulted in a fundamental change in our operating structure, as we now manufacture heads and magnetic media for use in many of the hard drives we manufacture. consequently, we make more capital investments and carry a higher percentage of fixed costs than we would if we were not vertically integrated. if the overall level of production decreases for any reason, and we are unable to reduce our fixed costs to match sales, our head or magnetic media manufacturing assets may face under-utilization that may impact our operating results. we are therefore subject to additional risks related to overall asset utilization, including the need to operate at high levels of utilization to drive competitive costs and the need for assured supply of components that we do not manufacture ourselves. in addition, we may incur additional risks, including: failure to continue to leverage the integration of our magnetic media technology with our head technology; insufficient third party sources to satisfy our needs if we are unable to manufacture a sufficient supply of heads or magnetic media; third party head or magnetic media suppliers may not continue to do business with us or may not do business with us on the same terms and conditions we have previously enjoyed; claims that our manufacturing of heads or magnetic media may infringe certain intellectual property rights of other companies; and difficulties locating in a timely manner suitable manufacturing equipment for our head or magnetic media manufacturing processes and replacement parts for such equipment. if we do not adequately address the challenges related to our head or magnetic media manufacturing operations, our ongoing operations could be disrupted, resulting in a decrease in our revenue or profit margins and negatively impacting our operating results. 25 table of contents if we are unable to timely and cost-effectively develop heads and magnetic media with leading technology and overall quality, our ability to sell our products may be significantly diminished, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. under our business plan, we are developing and manufacturing a substantial portion of the heads and magnetic media used in some of the hard drive products we manufacture. consequently, we are more dependent upon our own development and execution efforts and less able to take advantage of head and magnetic media technologies developed by other manufacturers. technology transition for head and magnetic media designs is critical to increasing our volume production of heads and magnetic media. there can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful in timely and cost-effectively developing and manufacturing heads or magnetic media for products using future technologies. we also may not effectively transition our head or magnetic media design and technology to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields using the technologies necessary to satisfy our customers product needs, or we may encounter quality problems with the heads or magnetic media we manufacture. in addition, we may not have access to external sources of supply without incurring substantial costs which would negatively impact our business and financial results. changes in product life cycles could adversely affect our financial results. if product life cycles lengthen, we may need to develop new technologies or programs to reduce our costs on any particular product to maintain competitive pricing for that product. if product life cycles shorten, it may result in an increase in our overall expenses and a decrease in our gross margins, both of which could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, shortening of product life cycles also makes it more difficult to recover the cost of product development before the product becomes obsolete. our failure to recover the cost of product development in the future could adversely affect our operating results. if we fail to make the technical innovations necessary to continue to increase areal density, we may fail to remain competitive. new products in the hard drive market typically require higher areal densities than previous product generations, posing formidable technical and manufacturing challenges. higher areal densities require existing head and magnetic media technology to be improved or new technology developed to accommodate more data on a single disk. in addition, our introduction of new products during a technology transition increases the likelihood of unexpected quality concerns. our failure to bring high quality new products to market on time and at acceptable costs may put us at a competitive disadvantage to companies that achieve these results. a fundamental change in recording technology could result in significant increases in our operating expenses and could put us at a competitive disadvantage. historically, when the industry experiences a fundamental change in technology, any manufacturer that fails to successfully and timely adjust its designs and processes to accommodate the new technology fails to remain competitive. there are some technologies, such as current-perpendicular-to-plane ( cpp ), energy assisted magnetic recording, patterned magnetic media and other similar potentially breakthrough technology, that will represent revolutionary recording technologies if they can be implemented by a competitor on a commercially viable basis ahead of the industry, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. as a result of these technology shifts, we could incur substantial costs in developing new technologies, such as heads, magnetic media, and tools to remain competitive. if we fail to successfully implement these new technologies, or if we are significantly slower than our competitors at implementing new technologies, we may not be able to offer products with capacities that our customers desire. for example, new recording technology requires changes in the manufacturing process of heads and magnetic media, which may cause longer production times and reduce the overall availability of magnetic media in the industry. additionally, the new technology requires a greater degree of integration between heads and magnetic media which may lengthen our time of development of hard drives using this technology. furthermore, as we attempt to develop and implement new technologies, we may become more dependent on suppliers to ensure our access to components, technology and production equipment that accommodate the new technology. for example, advanced wafer and magnetic media manufacturing technologies have historically been developed for use in the semiconductor industry prior to the hard drive industry. however, successful implementation of the use of patterned magnetic media with hard drive magnetic media currently presents a significant technical challenge 26 table of contents facing the hard drive industry but not the semiconductor industry. therefore, our suppliers may not be willing to dedicate adequate engineering resources to develop manufacturing equipment for patterned magnetic media prior to a need for the equipment in the semiconductor industry. we believe that if patterned magnetic media technology is not successfully implemented in the hard drive industry, then alternative storage technologies like solid-state storage may more rapidly overtake hard drives as the preferred storage solution for higher capacity storage needs. this result would put us at a competitive disadvantage and negatively impact our operating results. the difficulty of introducing hard drives with higher levels of areal density and the challenges of reducing other costs may impact our ability to achieve historical levels of cost reduction. storage capacity of the hard drive, as manufactured by us, is determined by the number of disks and each disk areal density. areal density is a measure of the amount of magnetic bits that can be stored on the recording surface of the disk. generally, the higher the areal density, the more information can be stored on a single platter. historically, we have been able to achieve a large percentage of cost reduction through increases in areal density. increases in areal density mean that the average drive we sell has fewer heads and disks for the same capacity and, therefore, may result in a lower component cost. however, because increasing areal density has become more difficult in the hard drive industry, such increases may require increases in component costs, and other opportunities to reduce costs may not continue at historical rates. additionally, increases in areal density may require us to make further capital expenditures on items such as new testing equipment needed as a result of an increased number of gb per platter. our inability to achieve cost reductions could adversely affect our operating results. if we do not properly manage the technology transitions of our products, our competitiveness and operating results may be negatively affected. the storage markets in which we offer our products continuously undergo technology transitions which we must anticipate and adapt our products to address in a timely manner. for example, serial interfaces normally go through cycles in which their maximum speeds double. we must effectively manage the transition of the features of our products to address these faster interface speeds in a timely manner in order to remain competitive and cost effective. if we fail to successfully and timely manage the transition to faster interface speeds, we may be at a competitive disadvantage to other companies that have successfully adapted their products in a timely manner and our operating results may suffer. if we fail to develop and introduce new hard drives that are competitive against alternative storage technologies, our business may suffer. our success depends in part on our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner in order to keep pace with competing technologies. alternative storage technologies like solid-state storage, or flash memory technology, have helped advance acceptance of netbooks in the pc market, and have successfully served digital entertainment markets for products such as digital cameras, mp3 players, usb flash drives and mobile phones that require lower storage capacity devices that cannot be economically manufactured using hard drive technology. typically, storage needs for higher capacity and performance, with lower cost-per-gigabyte, have been better served by hard drives. however, advances in semiconductor technology have resulted in flash memory emerging as a technology that is competitive with hard drives for niche high performance needs in advanced digital computing markets such as enterprise servers and storage, in spite of the associated challenges in the attributes of cost, capacity and reliability. additionally, solid-state storage is produced by large semiconductor companies who can sell their products at lower prices and operate their solid-state storage business unit at a loss while still remaining profitable overall in an attempt to gain market share. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in anticipating and developing new products for the desktop, mobile, enterprise, ce and external storage markets in response to solid-state storage, as well as other competing technologies. if our hard drive technology fails to offer higher capacity, performance and reliability with lower cost-per-gigabyte than solid-state storage for the desktop, mobile, enterprise, ce and external storage markets, we will be at a competitive disadvantage to companies using semiconductor technology to serve these markets and our business will suffer. 27 table of contents spending to improve our technology and develop new technology to remain competitive may negatively impact our financial results. in attempting to remain competitive, we may need to increase our capital expenditures and expenses above our historical run-rate model in order to attempt to improve our existing technology and develop new technology. increased investments in technology could cause our cost structure to fall out of alignment with demand for our products which would have a negative impact on our financial results. our head manufacturing operations include a single wafer fabrication facility in california and a single slider fabrication and head gimbal assembly facility in thailand, our magnetic media operations include three facilities in malaysia, and our high volume hard drive manufacturing operations include facilities in thailand and malaysia, which subjects us to substantial risk of damage or loss if operations at any of these facilities are disrupted. we design and manufacture a substantial portion of the heads and magnetic media required for the hard drives we manufacture. approximately 80-90% of our requirement for heads is satisfied by wafers fabricated in our fremont, california facility. wafers are then sent to our thailand facility for slider fabrication and wafer slicing and hga assembly and testing. additionally, we manufacture the majority of our magnetic media and substrates in three facilities in malaysia. our high volume hard drive manufacturing facilities are in malaysia and thailand, and the manufacturing facilities of many of our suppliers are also in asia. a fire, flood, earthquake or other disaster, condition or event such as political instability, civil unrest or a power outage that adversely affects any of these facilities would significantly affect supply of our heads or magnetic media and limit our ability to manufacture hard drives, which would result in a substantial loss of sales and revenue and a substantial harm to our operating results. similarly, a localized health risk affecting our employees or the staff of our suppliers, such as the spread of the influenza a (h1n1) or a new pandemic influenza, could impair the total volume of hard drives that we are able to manufacture, which would result in substantial harm to our operating results. our operating results will be adversely affected if we fail to optimize the overall quality, time-to-market and time-to-volume of new and established products. to achieve consistent success with our customers, we must balance several key attributes such as time-to-market, time-to-volume, quality, cost, service, price and a broad product portfolio. our operating results will be adversely affected if we fail to: maintain overall quality of products in new and established programs; produce sufficient quantities of products at the capacities our customers demand while managing the integration of new and established technologies; develop and qualify new products that have changes in overall specifications or features that our customers may require for their business needs; obtain commitments from our customers to qualify new products, redesigns of current products, or new components in our existing products; obtain customer qualification of these products on a timely basis by meeting all of our customers needs for performance, quality and features; maintain an adequate supply of components required to manufacture our products; or maintain the manufacturing capability to quickly change our product mix between different capacities, form factors and spin speeds in response to changes in customers product demands. manufacturing and marketing our products abroad subjects us to numerous risks. we are subject to risks associated with our foreign manufacturing operations and foreign marketing efforts, including: obtaining requisite u.s. and foreign governmental permits and approvals; 28 table of contents currency exchange rate fluctuations or restrictions; political instability and civil unrest, such as the recent protests and violence in bangkok, thailand; limited transportation availability, delays, and extended time required for shipping, which risks may be compounded in periods of price declines; higher freight rates; labor problems; trade restrictions or higher tariffs; copyright levies or similar fees imposed in european and other countries; exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations; increasing labor and overhead costs; and loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities. terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business and operating results. the continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility have created uncertainty in the financial and insurance markets and have significantly increased the political, economic and social instability in some of the geographic areas in which we operate. additionally, it is uncertain what impact the reactions to such acts by various governmental agencies and security regulators worldwide will have on shipping costs. acts of terrorism, either domestically or abroad, could create further uncertainties and instability. to the extent this results in disruption or delays of our manufacturing capabilities or shipments of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. sudden disruptions to the availability of freight lanes could have an impact on our operations. we ship the majority of our products to our various customers via air freight. the sudden unavailability of air cargo operations used to ship our products would impair our ability to deliver our products in a timely and efficient manner, which could adversely impact our operating results. we also ship a portion of our product via ocean freight, and events or conditions at shipping ports, such as labor difficulties or disputes, could also impact our operating results by impairing our ability to timely and efficiently deliver these products. we are vulnerable to system failures, which could harm our business. we are heavily dependent on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to operate our factories, sell our products, fulfill orders, manage inventory and bill, collect and make payments. our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and other events. our business is also subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism by third parties as well as employees. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our business, which could harm our reputation and financial condition. if we fail to successfully integrate siliconsystems business and technology into our operations in a timely manner, it may adversely affect our future results. while we expect our recent acquisition of siliconsystems, inc. to have only a nominal positive impact on our results in the near term, we believe that the acquisition may result in certain more significant future benefits, including technology efficiencies and synergies. however, we may encounter difficulties in the complicated process of integrating siliconsystems business and technology into our existing operations. if we are not able to quickly and cost-effectively integrate siliconsystems business and technology into our operations, our current operations may be disrupted and the future anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all. consequently, our future results of operations may be adversely affected. 29 table of contents if we are unable to retain or hire key staff and skilled employees our business results may suffer. our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key staff and skilled employees, many of whom would be extremely difficult to replace. worldwide competition for skilled employees in the data storage industry is intense and, as we attempt to move to a position of technology leadership in the storage industry, our business success becomes increasingly dependent on our ability to retain our key staff and skilled employees as well as attract, integrate and retain new skilled employees. volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price and the overall markets may adversely affect our ability to retain key staff or skilled employees who have received equity compensation. this risk increases during periods of declining stock price, which may cause many of our key staff and skilled employees to lose much of the value of the equity compensation that they have received as an incentive to remain in our employ and work towards the success of our operations. additionally, because a substantial portion of our key employees compensation is placed at risk and linked to the performance of our business, when our operating results are negatively impacted by events such as the current global economic downturn, we are at a competitive disadvantage for retaining and hiring key staff and skilled employees versus other companies that pay a relatively higher fixed salary. if we are unable to retain our existing key staff or skilled employees, or hire and integrate new key staff or skilled employees, or if we fail to implement succession plans for our key staff, our operating results would likely be harmed. the nature of our business and our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk of significant litigation. the data storage industry has been characterized by significant litigation. this includes litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights, product liability claims and other types of litigation. litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. moreover, the results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may result in adverse rulings or decisions. we may enter into settlements or be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. we evaluate notices of alleged patent infringement and notices of patents from patent holders that we receive from time to time. if claims or actions are asserted against us, we may be required to obtain a license or cross-license, modify our existing technology or design a new non-infringing technology. such licenses or design modifications can be extremely costly. in addition, we may decide to settle a claim or action against us, which settlement could be costly. we may also be liable for any past infringement. if there is an adverse ruling against us in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued barring production or sale of any infringing product. it could also result in a damage award equal to a reasonable royalty or lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement, treble damages. any of these results would increase our costs and harm our operating results. our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients of our business could be copied by competitors. our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary nature of our technology, including non-patentable intellectual property such as our process technology. if a competitor is able to reproduce or otherwise capitalize on our technology despite the safeguards we have in place, it may be difficult, expensive or impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. also, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do u.s. laws. in addition to patent protection of intellectual property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. we rely upon employee, consultant and vendor non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. however, any of our registered or unregistered intellectual property rights may be challenged or exploited by others in the industry, which might harm our operating results. the costs of compliance with environmental regulation and customers standards of corporate citizenship could cause an increase in our operating costs. we may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of certain products. such laws and regulations have been passed in several jurisdictions in which we operate. for example, the european union ( eu ) has 30 table of contents enacted the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ( rohs ) directive, which prohibits the use of certain substances in electronic equipment, and the waste electrical and electronic equipment ( weee ) directive, which obligates parties that place electrical and electronic equipment onto the market in the eu to put a clearly identifiable mark on the equipment, register with and report to eu member countries regarding distribution of the equipment, and provide a mechanism to take-back and properly dispose of the equipment. similar legislation may be enacted in other locations where we manufacture or sell our products. we will need to ensure that we comply with such laws and regulations as they are enacted, and that our component suppliers also timely comply with such laws and regulations. if we fail to timely comply with the legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our products, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in connection with our compliance with such environmental laws and regulations, as well as our compliance with industry environmental initiatives, the standards of business conduct required by some of our customers, and our commitment to sound corporate citizenship in all aspects of our business, we could incur substantial compliance and operating costs and be subject to disruptions to our operations and logistics. in addition, if we were found to be in violation of these laws or noncompliance with these initiatives or standards of conduct, we could be subject to governmental fines, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation and corporate brand which could cause our financial condition or operating results to suffer. fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations may negatively affect our operating results. because we manufacture our products abroad, our operating costs are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. further fluctuations in the exchange rate of the thai baht and of the malaysian ringgit may negatively impact our operating results. the thai baht is a free floating currency while the malaysian ringgit exchange rate policy is one of a managed float. we have attempted to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into short-term, forward contracts. however, these contracts do not cover our full exposure and can be canceled by the issuer if currency controls are put in place. currently, we hedge the thai baht, malaysian ringgit, euro and british pound sterling with forward contracts. if the u.s. dollar exhibits sustained weakness against most foreign currencies, the u.s. dollar equivalents of unhedged manufacturing costs could increase because a significant portion of our production costs are foreign-currency denominated. conversely, there would not be an offsetting impact to revenues since revenues are substantially u.s. dollar denominated. additionally, we negotiate and procure some of our component requirements in u.s. dollars from japanese and other non-u.s. based vendors. if the u.s. dollar continues to weaken against other foreign currencies, some of our component suppliers may increase the price which they charge for their components in order to maintain an equivalent profit margin. if this occurs, it would have a negative impact on our operating results. increases in our customers credit risk could result in credit losses and an increase in our operating costs. some of our oem customers have adopted a subcontractor model that requires us to contract directly with companies, such as odms, that provide manufacturing services to our oem customers. because these subcontractors are generally not as well capitalized as our direct oem customers, this subcontractor model exposes us to increased credit risks. our agreements with our oem customers may not permit us to increase our product prices to alleviate this increased credit risk. additionally, as we attempt to expand our oem and distribution channel sales into emerging economies such as brazil, russia, india and china, the customers in these regions may have relatively short operating histories, making it more difficult for us to accurately assess the associated credit risks. any credit losses we may suffer as a result of these increased risks, or as a result of credit losses from any significant customer, would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. 31 table of contents inaccurate projections of demand for our product can cause large fluctuations in our quarterly results. we often ship a high percentage of our total quarterly sales in the third month of the quarter, which makes it difficult for us to forecast our financial results before the end of the quarter. in addition, our quarterly projections and results may be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a number of other factors including: the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major customers; our product mix; changes in the prices of our products; manufacturing delays or interruptions; acceptance by customers of competing products in lieu of our products; variations in the cost of components for our products; limited availability of components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; competition and consolidation in the data storage industry; seasonal and other fluctuations in demand for pcs often due to technological advances; and availability and rates of transportation. rapidly changing conditions in the hard drive industry make it difficult to predict actual results. we have made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting. the highly technical nature of our products and the rapidly changing market conditions with which we deal means that actual results may differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions. these changes have impacted our financial results in the past and may continue to do so in the future. key estimates and assumptions for us include: price protection adjustments and other sales promotions and allowances on products sold to retailers, resellers and distributors; inventory adjustments for write-down of inventories to lower of cost or market value (net realizable value); reserves for doubtful accounts; accruals for product returns; accruals for warranty costs related to product defects; accruals for litigation and other contingencies; and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits. the market price of our common stock is volatile. the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, extremely volatile. factors such as the following may significantly affect the market price of our common stock: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors which may decrease the volume and profitability of sales of our existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence; new products introduced by us or our competitors; periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price erosion resulting from competitive pressures or industry consolidation; developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; 32 table of contents conditions and trends in the hard drive, computer, data and content management, storage and communication industries; contraction in our operating results or growth rates that are lower than our previous high growth-rate periods; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts relating specifically to us or the hard drive industry in general; and macroeconomic conditions that affect the market generally. in addition, general economic conditions may cause the stock market to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations from time to time that particularly affect the stock prices of many high technology companies. these fluctuations often appear to be unrelated to the operating performance of the companies. securities class action lawsuits are often brought against companies after periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. a number of such suits have been filed against us in the past, and should any new lawsuits be filed, such matters could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources and management attention. negative conditions in the global credit markets may impair the liquidity of a portion of our investment portfolio. our long-term investments consist of auction-rate securities totaling $18 million as of july 3, 2009. the negative conditions in the global credit markets have prevented some investors from liquidating their holdings of auction-rate securities because the amount of securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders for such securities. if the credit market does not improve, auctions for our invested amounts may continue to fail. if an auction fails for securities in which we have invested, we may be unable to liquidate some or all of our auction-rate securities at par should we need or desire to access the funds invested in those securities. in the event we need or desire to access these funds, we will not be able to do so until a future auction on these investments is successful or a buyer is found outside the auction process. if a buyer is found but is unwilling to purchase the investments at par (or current carrying value), we may incur a loss beyond losses already recognized by us on these securities. for example, during the year ended july 3, 2009, the market values of some of the auction-rate securities we owned were impacted by the macroeconomic credit market conditions, and as a result, we recognized $10 million of other-than-temporary losses to mark the investments to estimated market value. further, rating downgrades of the security issuer or the third-parties insuring such investments may require us to adjust the carrying value of these investments through an additional impairment charge. current economic conditions have caused us difficulty in adequately protecting our increased cash and short-term investments from financial institution failures. the negative global economic conditions and volatile investment markets have caused us to hold more cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments than we would hold under normal circumstances. since there has been an overall increase in demand for low-risk, u.s. government backed securities with a limited supply in the financial marketplace, we face increased difficulty in adequately protecting our increased cash and short-term investments from possible sudden and unforeseeable failures by banks and other financial institutions. a failure of any of these financial institutions in which deposits exceed fdic limits could have an adverse impact on our financial position. if our internal controls are found to be ineffective, our financial results or our stock price may be adversely affected. our most recent evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of july 3, 2009, in compliance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, our internal control over financial reporting was effective. we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place for future periods; however, if our internal control over financial reporting is found to be ineffective or if we identify a material weakness or significant deficiency in our financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which may adversely affect our financial results or our stock price. the outcome of our ongoing domestic and foreign tax audits may negatively impact our operating results. as we have previously disclosed, we are under examination of certain of our fiscal years by the u.s. internal revenue service (the irs ). separately, our french subsidiary is under examination by the french tax authorities. although we 33 table of contents believe our tax positions for the years under review are reasonable, the outcomes and timing of these audits are subject to significant uncertainty and could result in us having to pay amounts to the irs or french tax authorities in order to resolve examination of our tax positions, which could result in an increase or decrease of our current estimate of unrecognized tax benefits and may negatively impact our financial position, results of operations, net income or cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk disclosure about foreign currency risk although the majority of our transactions are in u.s. dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. we purchase short-term, foreign exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. the purpose of entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact 48 table of contents of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. the contract maturity dates do not exceed 12 months. we do not purchase short-term foreign exchange contracts for trading purposes. currently, we focus on hedging our foreign currency risk related to the thai baht, malaysian ringgit, euro and the british pound sterling. malaysian ringgit contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. euro and british pound sterling contracts are designated as fair value hedges. thai baht contracts are designated as both cash flow and fair value hedges. see part ii, item 8, note 1 in the notes to consolidated financial statements, included in this annual report on form 10-k. as of july 3, 2009, we had outstanding the following purchased foreign exchange contracts (in millions, except weighted average contract rate): contract weighted average unrealized amount contract rate* gain foreign exchange contracts: thai baht cash flow hedges $ 293 34.57 $ 2 thai baht fair value hedges $ 118 34.04 malaysian ringgit cash flow hedges $ 152 3.55 euro fair value hedges $ 14 0.71 british pound sterling fair value hedges $ 6 0.61 * expressed in units of foreign currency per dollar. in 2009, 2008 and 2007, total net realized transaction and forward exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to our consolidated financial statements. disclosure about other market risks variable interest rate risk borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at a rate equal to, at the option of wdti, either (a) a libor rate determined by reference to the cost of funds for eurodollar deposits for the interest period relevant to such borrowing, adjusted for certain additional costs (the eurocurrency rate ); or (b) a base rate determined by reference to the higher of (i) the federal funds rate plus 0.50% and (ii) the prime rate as announced by jpmorgan chase bank, n.a. (the base rate ); in each case plus an applicable margin. the applicable margin for borrowings under the term loan facility ranges from 1.25% to 1.50% with respect to borrowings at the eurocurrency rate and 0.0% to 0.125% with respect to borrowings at the base rate. the applicable margin for revolving loan borrowings under the revolving credit facility ranges from 0.8% to 1.125% with respect to borrowings at the eurocurrency rate and 0.0% to 0.125% with respect to borrowings at the base rate. the applicable margins for borrowings under the credit facility are determined based upon a leverage ratio of the company and its subsidiaries calculated on a consolidated basis. if the federal funds rate, prime rate or libor rate increases, our interest payments could also increase. a one percent increase in the variable rate of interest on the credit facility would increase interest expense by approximately $5 million annually. credit market risk our long-term investments consist of auction-rate securities totaling $18 million as of july 3, 2009. the negative conditions in the global credit markets have prevented us from liquidating some of our holdings of auction rate securities because the amount of securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders for such securities. if the credit markets do not improve, auctions for our invested amounts may continue to fail. if this occurs, we may be unable to liquidate some or all of our auction-rate securities at par should we need or desire to access the funds invested in those securities prior to maturity of the underlying assets. in the event we need or desire to access these funds, we will not be able to do so until a future auction on these investments is successful or a buyer is found outside the auction process. if a buyer is found but is unwilling to purchase the investments at par, we may incur a loss. the market values of some of the auction-rate securities we owned were impacted by the macroeconomic credit market conditions. rating downgrades of the security issuer or the third-parties insuring such investments may require us to adjust the carrying value of these investments through an impairment charge. based on our ability to access our cash, cash equivalents and cash generated from operations, we do not anticipate these investments will affect our ability to execute our current business plan. 49 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors negative or uncertain global economic conditions could result in a decrease in our sales and revenue and an increase in our operating costs, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. negative or uncertain global economic conditions could cause many of our direct and indirect customers to delay or reduce their purchases of our products and systems containing our products. in addition, many of our customers in each of the oem, distribution and retail channels rely on credit financing in order to purchase our products. if negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers access to credit, product orders in these channels may decrease, which could result in lower revenue. likewise, if our suppliers face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may be unable to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products. these actions could result in reductions in our revenue, increased price competition and increased operating costs, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. if industry demand slows significantly as a result of negative or uncertain global economic conditions or otherwise, we may have to take steps to align our cost structure with demand, which could result in impairment charges and have a negative impact on our operating results. if demand slows significantly as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions or otherwise, we may need to execute restructuring activities to realign our cost structure with softening demand. the occurrence of restructuring activities could result in impairment charges and other expenses, which could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. negative or uncertain global economic conditions increase the risk that we could suffer unrecoverable losses on our customers accounts receivable, which would adversely affect our financial results. we extend credit and payment terms to some of our customers. in addition to ongoing credit evaluations of our customers financial condition, we traditionally seek to mitigate our credit risk by purchasing credit insurance on certain of our accounts receivable balances; however, as a result of the recent uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions, we may find it increasingly difficult to be able to insure these accounts receivable. we could suffer significant losses if a customer whose accounts receivable we have not insured, or have underinsured, fails and is unable to pay us. 17 table of contents additionally, negative or uncertain global economic conditions increase the risk that if a customer whose accounts receivable we have insured fails, the financial condition of the insurance carrier for such customer account may have also deteriorated such that it cannot cover our loss. a significant loss of an accounts receivable that we cannot recover through credit insurance would have a negative impact on our financial results. if our long-lived assets or goodwill become impaired, it may adversely affect our operating results. negative or uncertain global economic conditions could result in circumstances, such as a sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization or a decrease in our forecasted cash flows such that they are insufficient, indicating that the carrying value of our long-lived assets or goodwill may be impaired. if we are required to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements because an impairment of our long-lived assets or goodwill is determined, our results of operations will be adversely affected. declines in average selling prices ( asps ) in the hard drive industry could adversely affect our operating results. historically, the hard drive industry has experienced declining asps. our asps tend to decline when competitors lower prices as a result of decreased costs or to absorb excess capacity, liquidate excess inventories, restructure or attempt to gain market share. our asps also decline when there is a shift in the mix of product sales, and sales of lower priced products increase relative to those of higher priced products. when asps in the hard drive industry decline, our asps are also likely to decline, which adversely affects our operating results. if we fail to anticipate or timely respond to changes in the markets for hard drives, our operating results could be adversely affected. the pc industry, which comprises a substantial portion of our revenue, is experiencing a shift in demand from 3.5-inch to 2.5-inch form factor disk drives. as a result, the market for 2.5-inch form factor drives is becoming increasingly dominated by large brand oem customers. these oem customers may be able to command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale. if we are not successful in responding to these changes in the market for smaller form factor drives, our business may suffer. in addition, during past economic downturns, as well as over the past few years, the consumer market for computers has shifted significantly towards lower priced systems, and we therefore expect this trend to continue in light of current global economic conditions. if we are not able to continue to offer a competitively priced hard drive for the low-cost pc market, our share of that market will likely fall, which could harm our operating results. the market for hard drives is also fragmenting into a variety of devices and products. many industry analysts expect, as do we, that as content increasingly converts to digital technology from the older analog technology, the technology of computers and consumer electronics will continue to converge, and hard drives may be found in many products other than computers, such as various ce devices. however, there has also been a recent rapid growth in ce devices that do not contain a hard drive (such as tablet computers and smartphones). if device-makers are successful in achieving customer acceptance of these devices as a replacement for traditional computing applications that contain hard drives, or if we are not successful in adapting our product offerings to include alternative storage solutions that address these devices, then demand for our products may decrease, which could adversely affect our operating results. moreover, some devices such as personal video recorders and digital video recorders, or some new pc operating systems which allow greater consumer choice in levels of functionality and therefore greater market differentiation, may require attributes not currently offered in our products, resulting in a need to develop new interfaces, form factors, technical specifications or product features, increasing our overall operational expense without corresponding incremental revenue at this stage. if we are not successful in continuing to deploy our hard drive technology and expertise to develop new products for emerging markets such as the ce market, or if we are required to incur significant costs in developing such products, it may harm our operating results. our prices and margins are subject to declines due to unpredictable end-user demand and oversupply of hard drives. demand for our hard drives depends on the demand for systems manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems. the demand for systems has been volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect 18 table of contents on the demand for hard drives in any given period. as a result, the hard drive market has experienced periods of excess capacity which can lead to liquidation of excess inventories and intense price competition. if intense price competition occurs, we may be forced to lower prices sooner and more than expected, which could result in lower revenue and gross margins. our failure to accurately forecast market and customer demand for our products could adversely affect our business and financial results or operating efficiencies. the data storage industry faces difficulties in accurately forecasting market and customer demand for its products. accurately forecasting demand has become increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers in light of the volatility in global economic conditions. the variety and volume of products we manufacture is based in part on these forecasts. if our forecasts exceed actual market demand, or if market demand decreases significantly from our forecasts, then we could experience periods of product oversupply and price decreases, which could impact our financial performance. if our forecasts do not meet actual market demand, or if market demand increases significantly beyond our forecasts or beyond our ability to add manufacturing capacity, then we may not be able to satisfy customer product needs, which could result in a loss of market share if our competitors are able to meet customer demands. although we receive forecasts from our customers, they are not generally obligated to purchase the forecasted amounts. sales volumes in the distribution and retail channels are volatile and harder to predict than sales to our oem or odm customers. we consider these forecasts in determining our component needs and our inventory requirements. if we fail to accurately forecast our customers product demands, we may have inadequate or excess inventory of our products or components, which could adversely affect our operating results. in order to efficiently and timely meet the demands of many of our oem customers, we position our products in multiple strategic locations based on the amounts forecasted by such customers. if an oem customer actual product demands decrease significantly from its forecast, then we may incur additional costs in relocating the products that have not been purchased by the oem. this could result in a delay in our product sales and an increase in our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. our entry into additional storage markets increases the complexity of our business, and if we are unable to successfully adapt our business processes as required by these new markets, we will be at a competitive disadvantage and our ability to grow will be adversely affected. as we expand our product line to sell into additional storage markets, the overall complexity of our business increases at an accelerated rate and we must make necessary adaptations to our business model to address these complexities. for example, as we have previously disclosed, we entered the traditional enterprise market in november 2009. in addition to requiring significant capital expenditures, our entry into the traditional enterprise market adds complexity to our business that requires us to effectively adapt our business and management processes to address the unique challenges and different requirements of the traditional enterprise market, while maintaining a competitive operating cost model. if we fail to gain market acceptance in the traditional enterprise storage market, we will remain at a competitive disadvantage to the companies that succeed in this market and our ability to continue our growth will be negatively affected. our customers demand for storage capacity may not continue to grow at current industry estimates, which may lower the prices our customers are willing to pay for new products or put us at a disadvantage to competing technologies. our customers demand for storage capacity may not continue to grow at current industry estimates as a result of developments in the regulation and enforcement of digital rights management, the emergence of processes such as cloud computing, data deduplication and storage virtualization, or otherwise. these factors could lead to our customers storage capacity needs being satisfied at lower prices with lower capacity hard drives or solid-state storage products that we do not offer, thereby decreasing our revenue or putting us at a disadvantage to competing storage technologies. as a result, even with increasing aggregate demand for storage capacity, our asps could decline, which could adversely affect our operating results. 19 table of contents expansion into new hard drive markets may cause our capital expenditures to increase, and if we do not successfully expand into new markets, our business may suffer. to remain a significant supplier of hard drives, we will need to offer a broad range of hard drive products to our customers. we currently offer a variety of 3.5-inch or 2.5-inch hard drives for the desktop, mobile, enterprise, ce and external storage markets. however, demand for hard drives may shift to products in form factors or with interfaces that our competitors offer but which we do not. expansion into other hard drive markets and resulting increases in manufacturing capacity requirements may require us to make substantial additional investments in part because our operations are largely vertically integrated now that we manufacture heads and magnetic media for use in many of the hard drives we manufacture. if we fail to successfully expand into new hard drive markets with products that we do not currently offer, we may lose business to our competitors who offer these products. if we fail to successfully manage our new product development or new market expansion, or if we fail to anticipate the issues associated with such development or expansion, our business may suffer. while we continue to develop new products and look to expand into new markets, the success of our new product introductions depends on a number of factors, including our ability to anticipate and manage a variety of issues associated with these new products and new markets, such as: difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp; market acceptance; effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand; and quality problems or other defects in the early stages of new product introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products. further, we need to identify how any of the new markets into which we are expanding may have different characteristics from the markets in which we currently exist and properly address these differences. these characteristics may include: demand volume requirements; demand seasonality; product generation development rates; customer concentrations; warranty expectations and product return policies; and cost, performance and compatibility requirements. our business may suffer if we fail to successfully anticipate and manage these issues associated with our product development and market expansion. for example, our branded products are designed to attach to and interoperate with a wide variety of pc and ce devices, and therefore their functionality relies on the manufacturer of such devices, or the associated operating systems, enabling the manufacturer devices to operate with our branded products. if our branded products are not compatible with a wide variety of devices, or if device manufacturers design their devices so that our branded products cannot operate with them, and we cannot quickly and efficiently adapt our branded products to address these compatibility issues, our business could suffer. expanding into new markets exposes our business to different seasonal demand cycles, which in turn could adversely affect our operating results. the ce and retail markets have different seasonal pricing and volume demand cycles as compared to the pc market. by expanding into these markets, we became exposed to seasonal fluctuations that are different from, and in addition to, those of the pc market. for example, because the primary customer for our branded products are individual consumers, this market has historically experienced a dramatic increase in demand during the winter holiday season. if we do not 20 table of contents properly adjust our supply to these new demand cycles, we risk having excess inventory during periods of low demand and insufficient inventory during periods of high demand, which could adversely affect our operating results. selling to the retail market is an important part of our business, and if consumer spending decreases, or if we fail to maintain and grow our market share or gain market acceptance of our branded products, our operating results could suffer. selling branded products is an important part of our business, and as our branded products revenue increases as a portion of our overall revenue, our success in the retail market becomes increasingly important to our operating results. if consumer spending decreases as a result of the recent uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions, our operating results could suffer because of the increased importance of our branded products business. we sell our branded products directly to a select group of major retailers, such as computer superstores and ce stores, and authorize sales through distributors to other retailers and online resellers. our current retail customer base is primarily in the u.s., canada and europe. we are facing increased competition from other companies for shelf space at a small number of major retailers that have strong buying power and pricing leverage. if we are unable to maintain effective working relationships with major retailers and online resellers, or if we fail to successfully expand into multiple channels, our competitive position in the branded product market may suffer and our operating results may be adversely affected. our success in the retail market also depends on our ability to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation. adverse publicity, whether or not justified, or allegations of product quality issues, even if false or unfounded, could tarnish our reputation and cause our customers to choose products offered by our competitors. in addition, the proliferation of new methods of mass communication facilitated by the internet makes it easier for false or unfounded allegations to adversely affect our brand image and reputation. if customers no longer maintain a preference for wd - brand products, our operating results may be adversely affected. additionally, we face strong competition in maintaining and trying to grow our market share in the retail market, particularly because of the relatively low barriers to entry in this market. for example, several additional hard drive manufacturers have recently disclosed plans to expand into the external storage market. as these companies attempt to gain market share, we may have difficulty in maintaining or growing our market share and there may be increased downward pressure on pricing. there can be no assurance that any new products we introduce into the retail market will gain market acceptance, and if they do not, our operating results could suffer. loss of market share with or by a key customer, or consolidation among our customer base, could harm our operating results. during the year ended july 2, 2010, a large percentage of our revenue, 53%, came from sales to our top 10 customers. these customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial demands on us, including demands on product pricing and on contractual terms, which often results in the allocation of risk to us as the supplier. even if we successfully qualify a product with a customer, the customer is not generally obligated to purchase any minimum volume of products from us and may be able to cancel an order or terminate its relationship with us at any time. our ability to maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is essential to our future performance. if we lose a key customer, if any of our key customers reduce their orders of our products or require us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, if a customer is acquired by one of our competitors or if a key customer suffers financial hardship, our operating results would likely be harmed. additionally, if there is consolidation among our customer base, our customers may be able to command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. in addition, if, as a result of increased leverage, customer pressures require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, we could decide not to sell our products to a particular customer, which could result in a decrease in our revenue. consolidation among our customer base may also lead to reduced demand for our products, replacement of our products by the combined entity with those of our competitors and cancellations of orders, each of which could harm our operating results. 21 table of contents current or future competitors may gain a technology advantage or develop an advantageous cost structure that we cannot match. it may be possible for our current or future competitors to gain an advantage in product technology, manufacturing technology, or process technology, which may allow them to offer products or services that have a significant advantage over the products and services that we offer. advantages could be in capacity, performance, reliability, serviceability, or other attributes. we may be at a competitive disadvantage to any companies that are able to gain these advantages. further industry consolidation could provide competitive advantages to our competitors. the hard drive industry has experienced consolidation over the past several years. consolidation by our competitors may enhance their capacity, abilities and resources and lower their cost structure, causing us to be at a competitive disadvantage. additionally, continued industry consolidation may lead to uncertainty in areas such as component availability, which could negatively impact our cost structure. sales in the distribution channel are important to our business, and if we fail to maintain brand preference with our distributors or if distribution markets for hard drives weaken, our operating results could suffer. our distribution customers typically sell to small computer manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators and other resellers. we face significant competition in this channel as a result of limited product qualification programs and a significant focus on price and availability of product. if we fail to remain competitive in terms of our technology, quality, service and support, our distribution customers may favor our competitors, and our operating results could suffer. additionally, if the distribution market weakens as a result of a slowing pc growth rate, technology transitions or a significant change in consumer buying preference, or if we experience significant price declines due to oversupply in the distribution channel, then our operating results would be adversely affected. the hard drive industry is highly competitive and can be characterized by significant shifts in market share among the major competitors. the price of hard drives has fallen over time due to increases in supply, cost reductions, technological advances and price reductions by competitors seeking to liquidate excess inventories or attempting to gain market share. in addition, rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and profitability of sales of existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence. these factors, taken together, may result in significant shifts in market share among the industry major participants. in addition, product recalls can lead to a loss of market share, which could adversely affect our operating results. some of our competitors with diversified business units outside the hard drive industry may over extended periods of time sell hard drives at prices that we cannot profitably match. some of our competitors earn a significant portion of their revenue from business units outside the hard drive industry. because they do not depend solely on sales of hard drives to achieve profitability, they may sell hard drives at lower prices and operate their hard drive business unit at a loss over an extended period of time while still remaining profitable overall. in addition, if these competitors can increase sales of non-hard drive products to the same customers, they may benefit from selling their hard drives at lower prices. our operating results may be adversely affected if we cannot successfully compete with the pricing by these companies. if we fail to qualify our products with our customers or if product life cycles lengthen, it may have a significant adverse impact on our sales and margins. we regularly engage in new product qualification with our customers. once a product is accepted for qualification testing, failures or delays in the qualification process can result in delayed or reduced product sales, reduced product margins caused by having to continue to offer a more costly current generation product, or lost sales to that customer until the next generation of products is introduced. the effect of missing a product qualification opportunity is magnified by the limited number of high volume oems, which continue to consolidate their share of the storage markets. likewise, if product life cycles lengthen, we may have a significantly longer period to wait before we have an 22 table of contents opportunity to qualify a new product with a customer, which could reduce our profits because we expect declining gross margins on our current generation products as a result of competitive pressures. we are subject to risks related to product defects, which could result in product recalls or epidemic failures and could subject us to warranty claims in excess of our warranty provisions or which are greater than anticipated. we warrant the majority of our products for periods of one to five years. we test our hard drives in our manufacturing facilities through a variety of means. however, there can be no assurance that our testing will reveal defects in our products, which may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market. accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will occur, which could require a product recall. product recalls can be expensive to implement and, if a product recall occurs during the product warranty period, we may be required to replace the defective product. moreover, there is a risk that product defects may trigger an epidemic failure clause in a customer agreement. if an epidemic failure occurs, we may be required to replace or refund the value of the defective product and to cover certain other costs associated with the consequences of the epidemic failure. in addition, a product recall or epidemic failure may damage our reputation or customer relationships, and may cause us to lose market share with our customers, including our oem and odm customers. our standard warranties contain limits on damages and exclusions of liability for consequential damages and for misuse, improper installation, alteration, accident or mishandling while in the possession of someone other than us. we record an accrual for estimated warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. we may incur additional operating expenses if our warranty provision does not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues related to defects in our products, whether as a result of a product recall, epidemic failure or otherwise. if these additional expenses are significant, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. a competitive cost structure is critical to our operating results, and increased costs may adversely affect our operating margin. a competitive cost structure for our products, including critical components, labor and overhead, is critical to the success of our business, and our operating results depend on our ability to maintain competitive cost structures on new and established products. if our competitors are able to achieve a lower cost structure that we are unable to match, we could be at a competitive disadvantage to those competitors. shortages of commodity materials or commodity components, price volatility, or use by other industries of materials and components used in the hard drive industry, may negatively impact our operating results. increases in the cost for certain commodity materials or commodity components may increase our costs of manufacturing and transporting hard drives and key components. shortages of commodity components such as dram and nand flash, or commodity materials such as glass substrates, stainless steel, aluminum, nickel, neodymium, ruthenium or platinum, may increase our costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to find ways to mitigate these increased costs. furthermore, if other high volume industries increase their demand for materials or components such as these, our costs may further increase, which could have an adverse effect on our operating margins. in addition, shortages in other commodity components and materials used in our customers products could result in a decrease in demand for our products, which would negatively impact our operating results. the volatility in the cost of oil also affects our transportation costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to pass these increased costs through to our customers. if we fail to maintain effective relationships with our major component suppliers, our supply of critical components may be at risk and our profitability could suffer. while we make most of our own heads and magnetic media for some of our product families, we do, according to our sourcing strategy, purchase some percentage of our required heads and magnetic media from our external supply base. in addition, we purchase a majority of our other components, including all mechanical and electronic components, from our external supply base. for certain components, we use multiple suppliers that deploy different technology or processes, and we must successfully integrate components from these suppliers in our products. accordingly, we must maintain effective relationships with our supply base to source our component needs, develop compatible technology, and maintain continuity of supply at reasonable costs. if we fail to maintain effective relationships with our supply base, or if we fail to 23 table of contents integrate components from our suppliers effectively, this may adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver the best products to our customers and our profitability could suffer. for example, in august 2003, we settled litigation with a supplier who previously was the sole source of read channel devices for our hard drives. as a result of the disputes that gave rise to the litigation, our profitability was at risk until another supplier read channel devices could be designed into our products. similar disputes with other strategic component suppliers could adversely affect our operating results. violation of applicable laws, including labor or environmental laws, and certain other practices by our suppliers could harm our business. we expect our suppliers, sub-suppliers and sub-contractors (collectively referred to as suppliers ) to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including labor and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required supplier standards of conduct. while our internal operating guidelines promote ethical business practices, we do not control our suppliers or their labor or environmental practices. the violation of labor, environmental or other laws by any of our suppliers, or divergence of a supplier business practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the u.s., could harm our business by: interrupting or otherwise disrupting the shipment of our product components; damaging our reputation; forcing us to find alternate component sources; reducing demand for our products (for example, through a consumer boycott); or exposing us to potential liability for our supplier wrongdoings. dependence on a limited number of qualified suppliers of components and manufacturing equipment could lead to delays, lost revenue or increased costs. our future operating results may depend substantially on our suppliers ability to timely qualify their components in our programs, and their ability to supply us with these components in sufficient volumes to meet our production requirements. a number of the components that we use are available from only a single or limited number of qualified suppliers, and may be used across multiple product lines. in addition, some of the components (or component types) used in our products are used in other devices, such as mobile telephones and digital cameras. if there is a significant simultaneous upswing in demand for such a component (or component type) from several high volume industries resulting in a supply reduction, if a component is otherwise in short supply, or if a supplier fails to qualify or has a quality issue with a component, we may experience delays or increased costs in obtaining that component. if we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of materials used in the manufacture of magnetic components, or other necessary components, we may experience production delays which could cause us loss of revenue. if a component becomes unavailable, we could suffer significant loss of revenue. in addition, certain equipment and consumables we use in our manufacturing or testing processes are available only from a limited number of suppliers. some of this equipment and consumables use materials that at times could be in short supply. if these materials are not available, or are not available in the quantities we require for our manufacturing and testing processes, our ability to manufacture our products could be impacted, and we could suffer significant loss of revenue. each of the following could also significantly harm our operating results: an unwillingness of a supplier to supply such components or equipment to us; consolidation of key suppliers; failure of a key supplier business process; a key supplier or sub-supplier inability to access credit necessary to operate its business; or failure of a key supplier to remain in business, to remain an independent merchant supplier, or to adjust to market conditions. 24 table of contents contractual commitments with component suppliers may result in us paying increased charges and cash advances for such components or may cause us to have inadequate or excess component inventory. to reduce the risk of component shortages, we attempt to provide significant lead times when buying components, which may subject us to cancellation charges if we cancel orders as a result of technology transitions or changes in our component needs. in addition, we may from time to time enter into contractual commitments with component suppliers in an effort to increase and stabilize the supply of those components and enable us to purchase such components at favorable prices. some of these commitments may require us to buy a substantial number of components from the supplier or make significant cash advances to the supplier; however, these commitments may not result in a satisfactory increase or stabilization of the supply of such components. furthermore, as a result of the current global economic conditions, our ability to forecast our requirements for these components has become increasingly difficult, therefore increasing the risk that our contractual commitments may not meet our actual supply requirements, which could cause us to have inadequate or excess component inventory and adversely affect our operating results and increase our operating costs. failure by certain suppliers to effectively and efficiently develop and manufacture components, technology or production equipment for our products may adversely affect our operations. we rely on suppliers for various component parts that we integrate into our hard drives but do not manufacture ourselves, such as semiconductors, motors, flex circuits and suspensions. likewise, we rely on suppliers for certain technology and equipment necessary for advanced development technology for future products. some of these components, and most of this technology and production equipment, must be specifically designed to be compatible for use in our products or for developing and manufacturing our future products, and are only available from a limited number of suppliers, some of with whom we are sole sourced. we are therefore dependent on these suppliers to be able and willing to dedicate adequate engineering resources to develop components that can be successfully integrated with our products, and technology and production equipment that can be used to develop and manufacture our next-generation products efficiently. the failure of these suppliers to effectively and efficiently develop and manufacture components that can be integrated into our products or technology and production equipment that can be used to develop or manufacture next generation products may cause us to experience inability or delay in our manufacturing and shipment of hard drive products, our expansion into new technology and markets, or our ability to remain competitive with alternative storage technologies, therefore adversely affecting our business and financial results. there are certain additional capital expenditure costs and asset utilization risks to our business associated with our strategy to vertically integrate our operations. our vertical integration of head and magnetic media manufacturing resulted in a fundamental change in our operating structure, as we now manufacture heads and magnetic media for use in many of the hard drives we manufacture. consequently, we make more capital investments and carry a higher percentage of fixed costs than we would if we were not vertically integrated. if the overall level of production decreases for any reason, and we are unable to reduce our fixed costs to match sales, our head or magnetic media manufacturing assets may face under-utilization that may impact our operating results. we are therefore subject to additional risks related to overall asset utilization, including the need to operate at high levels of utilization to drive competitive costs and the need for assured supply of components that we do not manufacture ourselves. in addition, we may incur additional risks, including: failure to continue to leverage the integration of our magnetic media technology with our head technology; insufficient third party sources to satisfy our needs if we are unable to manufacture a sufficient supply of heads or magnetic media; third party head or magnetic media suppliers may not continue to do business with us or may not do business with us on the same terms and conditions we have previously enjoyed; claims that our manufacturing of heads or magnetic media may infringe certain intellectual property rights of other companies; and 25 table of contents difficulties locating in a timely manner suitable manufacturing equipment for our head or magnetic media manufacturing processes and replacement parts for such equipment. if we do not adequately address the challenges related to our head or magnetic media manufacturing operations, our ongoing operations could be disrupted, resulting in a decrease in our revenue or profit margins and negatively impacting our operating results. if we are unable to timely and cost-effectively develop heads and magnetic media with leading technology and overall quality, our ability to sell our products may be significantly diminished, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. under our business plan, we are developing and manufacturing a substantial portion of the heads and magnetic media used in the hard drive products we manufacture. consequently, we are more dependent upon our own development and execution efforts and less able to take advantage of head and magnetic media technologies developed by other manufacturers. technology transition for head and magnetic media designs is critical to increasing our volume production of heads and magnetic media. there can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful in timely and cost-effectively developing and manufacturing heads or magnetic media for products using future technologies. we also may not effectively transition our head or magnetic media design and technology to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields using the technologies necessary to satisfy our customers product needs, or we may encounter quality problems with the heads or magnetic media we manufacture. in addition, we may not have access to external sources of supply without incurring substantial costs which would negatively impact our business and financial results. changes in product life cycles could adversely affect our financial results. if product life cycles lengthen, we may need to develop new technologies or programs to reduce our costs on any particular product to maintain competitive pricing for that product. if product life cycles shorten, it may result in an increase in our overall expenses and a decrease in our gross margins, both of which could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, shortening of product life cycles also makes it more difficult to recover the cost of product development before the product becomes obsolete. our failure to recover the cost of product development in the future could adversely affect our operating results. if we fail to make the technical innovations necessary to continue to increase areal density, we may fail to remain competitive. new products in the hard drive market typically require higher areal densities than previous product generations, posing formidable technical and manufacturing challenges. higher areal densities require existing head and magnetic media technology to be improved or new technologies developed to accommodate more data on a single disk. in addition, our introduction of new products during a technology transition increases the likelihood of unexpected quality concerns. our failure to bring high quality new products to market on time and at acceptable costs may put us at a competitive disadvantage to companies that achieve these results. we make significant investments in research and development, and unsuccessful investments could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. over the past several years, our business strategy has been to derive a competitive advantage by moving from being a follower of new technologies to being a leader in the innovation and development of new technologies. this strategy requires us to make significant investments in research and development. there can be no assurance that these investments will result in viable technologies or products, or if these investments do result in viable technologies or products, that they will be profitable or accepted by the market. significant investments in unsuccessful research and development efforts could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. a fundamental change in recording technology could result in significant increases in our operating expenses and could put us at a competitive disadvantage. historically, when the industry experiences a fundamental change in technology, any manufacturer that fails to successfully and timely adjust its designs and processes to accommodate the new technology fails to remain competitive. there are some technologies, such as current-perpendicular-to-plane giant magnetoresistance, shingle magnetic 26 table of contents recording, energy assisted magnetic recording, patterned magnetic media, advanced signal processing, advanced format technology and other similar potentially breakthrough technologies, that will represent revolutionary recording technologies if they can be implemented by a competitor on a commercially viable basis ahead of the industry, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. as a result of these technology shifts, we could incur substantial costs in developing new technologies, such as heads, magnetic media, and tools to remain competitive. if we fail to successfully implement these new technologies, or if we are significantly slower than our competitors at implementing new technologies, we may not be able to offer products with capacities that our customers desire. for example, new recording technology requires changes in the manufacturing process of heads and magnetic media, which may cause longer production times and reduce the overall availability of magnetic media in the industry. additionally, the new technology requires a greater degree of integration between heads and magnetic media which may lengthen our time of development of hard drives using this technology. furthermore, as we attempt to develop and implement new technologies, we may become more dependent on suppliers to ensure our access to components, technology and production equipment that accommodate the new technology. for example, advanced wafer and magnetic media manufacturing technologies have historically been developed for use in the semiconductor industry prior to the hard drive industry. however, successful implementation of the use of patterned magnetic media with hard drive magnetic media currently presents a significant technical challenge facing the hard drive industry but not the semiconductor industry. therefore, our suppliers may not be willing to dedicate adequate engineering resources to develop manufacturing equipment for patterned magnetic media prior to a need for the equipment in the semiconductor industry. we believe that if new technologies, such as energy assisted magnetic recording, are not successfully implemented in the hard drive industry, then alternative storage technologies like solid-state storage may more rapidly overtake hard drives as the preferred storage solution for higher capacity storage needs. this result would put us at a competitive disadvantage and negatively impact our operating results. the difficulty of introducing hard drives with higher levels of areal density and the challenges of reducing other costs may impact our ability to achieve historical levels of cost reduction. storage capacity of the hard drive, as manufactured by us, is determined by the number of disks and each disk areal density. areal density is a measure of the amount of magnetic bits that can be stored on the recording surface of the disk. generally, the higher the areal density, the more information can be stored on a single platter. historically, we have been able to achieve a large percentage of cost reduction through increases in areal density. increases in areal density mean that the average drive we sell has fewer heads and disks for the same capacity and, therefore, may result in a lower component cost. however, because increasing areal density has become more difficult in the hard drive industry, such increases may require increases in component costs, and other opportunities to reduce costs may not continue at historical rates. additionally, increases in areal density may require us to make further capital expenditures on items such as new testing equipment needed as a result of an increased number of gb per platter. our inability to achieve cost reductions could adversely affect our operating results. if we do not properly manage the technology transitions of our products, our competitiveness and operating results may be negatively affected. the storage markets in which we offer our products continuously undergo technology transitions which we must anticipate and adapt our products to address in a timely manner. for example, serial interfaces normally go through cycles in which their maximum speeds double. we must effectively manage the transition of the features of our products to address these faster interface speeds in a timely manner in order to remain competitive and cost effective. if we fail to successfully and timely manage the transition to faster interface speeds, we may be at a competitive disadvantage to other companies that have successfully adapted their products in a timely manner and our operating results may suffer. if we fail to develop and introduce new hard drives that are competitive against alternative storage technologies, our business may suffer. our success depends in part on our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner in order to keep pace with competing technologies. alternative storage technologies like solid-state storage and flash memory technology have successfully served digital entertainment markets for products such as digital cameras, mp3 players, usb flash drives and mobile phones that require a relatively low amount of storage capacity that cannot be economically 27 table of contents serviced using hard drive technology. typically, storage needs for higher capacity and performance, with lower cost-per-gigabyte, have been better served by hard drives. however, advances in semiconductor technology have resulted in solid-state storage emerging as a technology that is competitive with hard drives for niche high performance needs in advanced digital computing markets such as enterprise servers and storage, in spite of the associated challenges in the attributes of cost, capacity and reliability. solid-state storage, which incorporates semiconductor media, is produced by large semiconductor companies who can then sell their storage products at lower prices while still remaining profitable overall. this can help them improve their market share at the expense of the competition. in addition, these semiconductor companies may choose to supply companies like us with semiconductor media at prices that make it difficult, if not impossible, for us to compete with them on a profitable basis. as a result, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in anticipating and developing new products for the desktop, mobile, enterprise, ce and external storage markets in response to solid-state storage, as well as other competing technologies. if our hard drive technology fails to offer higher capacity, performance and reliability with lower cost-per-gigabyte than solid-state storage for the desktop, mobile, enterprise, ce and external storage markets, we will be at a competitive disadvantage to companies using semiconductor technology to serve these markets and our business will suffer. spending to improve our technology and develop new technology to remain competitive may negatively impact our financial results. in attempting to remain competitive, we may need to increase our capital expenditures and expenses above our historical run-rate model in order to attempt to improve our existing technology and develop new technology. increased investments in technology could cause our cost structure to fall out of alignment with demand for our products which would have a negative impact on our financial results. our manufacturing operations are concentrated in a small number of large, purpose-built facilities, which subjects us to substantial risk of damage or loss if operations at any of these facilities are disrupted. as a result of our cost structure and strategy of vertical integration, we conduct our manufacturing operations at large, high volume, purpose-built facilities. for example, approximately 80% of our requirement for heads is satisfied by wafers fabricated in our fremont, california facility. also, we manufacture the majority of our substrates for magnetic media in our johor, malaysia facility, and we finish a majority of our magnetic media in our facilities in penang, malaysia and tuas, singapore. a majority of our high volume hard drive manufacturing operations are conducted in two facilities in thailand, with the balance conducted in our kuala lumpur, malaysia facility. the manufacturing facilities of many of our suppliers are also in asia near our facilities. a fire, flood, earthquake, tsunami or other disaster, condition or event such as political instability, civil unrest or a power outage that adversely affects any of these facilities would significantly affect our ability to manufacture hard drives, which would result in a substantial loss of sales and revenue and a substantial harm to our operating results. similarly, a localized health risk affecting our employees at these facilities or the staff of our suppliers, such as the spread of the influenza a (h1n1) or a new pandemic influenza, could impair the total volume of hard drives that we are able to manufacture, which would result in substantial harm to our operating results. our operating results will be adversely affected if we fail to optimize the overall quality, time-to-market and time-to-volume of new and established products. to achieve consistent success with our customers, we must balance several key attributes such as time-to-market, time-to-volume, quality, cost, service, price and a broad product portfolio. our operating results will be adversely affected if we fail to: maintain overall quality of products in new and established programs; produce sufficient quantities of products at the capacities our customers demand while managing the integration of new and established technologies; develop and qualify new products that have changes in overall specifications or features that our customers may require for their business needs; obtain commitments from our customers to qualify new products, redesigns of current products, or new components in our existing products; 28 table of contents obtain customer qualification of these products on a timely basis by meeting all of our customers needs for performance, quality and features; maintain an adequate supply of components required to manufacture our products; or maintain the manufacturing capability to quickly change our product mix between different capacities, form factors and spin speeds in response to changes in customers product demands. manufacturing outside the u.s. and marketing our products globally subjects us to numerous risks. we are subject to risks associated with our global manufacturing operations and global marketing efforts, including: obtaining requisite u.s. and foreign governmental permits and approvals; currency exchange rate fluctuations or restrictions; political instability and civil unrest; limited transportation availability, delays, and extended time required for shipping, which risks may be compounded in periods of price declines; higher freight rates; labor problems; trade restrictions or higher tariffs; copyright levies or similar fees or taxes imposed in european and other countries; exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations; increasing labor and overhead costs; and loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities. terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business and operating results. the continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility have created uncertainty in the financial and insurance markets and have significantly increased the political, economic and social instability in some of the geographic areas in which we operate. additionally, it is uncertain what impact the reactions to such acts by various governmental agencies and security regulators worldwide will have on shipping costs. acts of terrorism, either domestically or abroad, could create further uncertainties and instability. to the extent this results in disruption or delays of our manufacturing capabilities or shipments of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. sudden disruptions to the availability of freight lanes could have an impact on our operations. we generally ship our products to our customers, and receive shipments from our suppliers, via air or ocean freight. the sudden unavailability or disruption of cargo operations or freight lanes, such as due to labor difficulties or disputes, severe weather patterns or other natural disasters, or political instability or civil unrest, could impact our operating results by impairing our ability to timely and efficiently deliver our products. we are vulnerable to system failures or attacks, which could harm our business. we are heavily dependent on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to operate our factories, sell our products, fulfill orders, manage inventory and bill, collect and make payments. our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and other events. our business is also subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism by third parties as well as employees. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our business, which could harm our reputation and financial condition. 29 table of contents if we fail to identify, manage, complete and integrate acquisitions, investment opportunities or other significant transactions, it may adversely affect our future results. as part of our growth strategy, we may pursue acquisitions of, investment opportunities in or other significant transactions with companies that are complementary to our business. in order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify attractive acquisition or investment opportunities, successfully complete the transaction, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as integration of the acquired company or employees. we may not be able to identify or complete appealing acquisition or investment opportunities given the intense competition for these transactions. even if we identify and complete suitable corporate transactions, we may not be able to successfully address any integration challenges in a timely manner, or at all. if we fail to successfully integrate an acquisition, we may not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, and our future results of operations could be adversely affected. if we are unable to retain or hire key staff and skilled employees our business results may suffer. our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key staff and skilled employees, many of whom would be extremely difficult to replace. global competition for skilled employees in the data storage industry is intense and, as we attempt to move to a position of technology leadership in the storage industry, our business success becomes increasingly dependent on our ability to retain our key staff and skilled employees as well as attract, integrate and retain new skilled employees. volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price and the overall markets may adversely affect our ability to retain key staff or skilled employees who have received equity compensation. additionally, because a substantial portion of our key employees compensation is placed at risk and linked to the performance of our business, when our operating results are negatively impacted by global economic conditions, we are at a competitive disadvantage for retaining and hiring key staff and skilled employees versus other companies that pay a relatively higher fixed salary. if we are unable to retain our existing key staff or skilled employees, or hire and integrate new key staff or skilled employees, or if we fail to implement succession plans for our key staff, our operating results would likely be harmed. the nature of our business and our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk of significant litigation. the data storage industry has been characterized by significant litigation. this includes litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights, product liability claims and other types of litigation. litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. moreover, the results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may result in adverse rulings or decisions. we may enter into settlements or be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. we evaluate notices of alleged patent infringement and notices of patents from patent holders that we receive from time to time. if claims or actions are asserted against us, we may be required to obtain a license or cross-license, modify our existing technology or design a new non-infringing technology. such licenses or design modifications can be extremely costly. in addition, we may decide to settle a claim or action against us, which settlement could be costly. we may also be liable for any past infringement. if there is an adverse ruling against us in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued barring production or sale of any infringing product. it could also result in a damage award equal to a reasonable royalty or lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement, treble damages. any of these results would increase our costs and harm our operating results. our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients of our business could be copied by competitors. our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary nature of our technology, including non-patentable intellectual property such as our process technology. if a competitor is able to reproduce or otherwise capitalize on our technology despite the safeguards we have in place, it may be difficult, expensive or impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. also, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do u.s. laws. in addition to patent protection of intellectual property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. we rely upon employee, consultant and vendor non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. 30 table of contents however, any of our registered or unregistered intellectual property rights may be challenged or exploited by others in the industry, which might harm our operating results. the costs of compliance with state, federal and international legal and regulatory requirements, such as environmental, labor, trade and tax regulations, and customers standards of corporate citizenship could cause an increase in our operating costs. we may be or become subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing our environmental, labor, trade and tax practices. these laws and regulations, particularly those applicable to our international operations, are or may be complex, extensive and subject to change. we will need to ensure that we and our component suppliers timely comply with such laws and regulations, which may result in an increase in our operating costs. for example, the european union ( eu ) has enacted the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ( rohs ) directive, which prohibits the use of certain substances in electronic equipment, and the waste electrical and electronic equipment ( weee ) directive, which obligates parties that place electrical and electronic equipment onto the market in the eu to put a clearly identifiable mark on the equipment, register with and report to eu member countries regarding distribution of the equipment, and provide a mechanism to take back and properly dispose of the equipment. similar legislation may be enacted in other locations where we manufacture or sell our products. in addition, climate change legislation in the u.s. is a significant topic of discussion and may generate federal or other regulatory responses in the near future. if we or our component suppliers fail to timely comply with applicable legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our products or we may face increased operating costs as a result of taxes, fines or penalties, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in connection with our compliance with such environmental laws and regulations, as well as our compliance with industry environmental initiatives, the standards of business conduct required by some of our customers, and our commitment to sound corporate citizenship in all aspects of our business, we could incur substantial compliance and operating costs and be subject to disruptions to our operations and logistics. in addition, if we were found to be in violation of these laws or noncompliant with these initiatives or standards of conduct, we could be subject to governmental fines, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation and corporate brand which could cause our financial condition or operating results to suffer. fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations may negatively affect our operating results. because we manufacture and sell our products abroad, our revenue, margins, operating costs and cash flows are impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. if the u.s. dollar exhibits sustained weakness against most foreign currencies, the u.s. dollar equivalents of unhedged manufacturing costs could increase because a significant portion of our production costs are foreign-currency denominated. conversely, there would not be an offsetting impact to revenues since revenues are substantially u.s. dollar denominated. additionally, we negotiate and procure some of our component requirements in u.s. dollars from japanese and other non-u.s. based vendors. if the u.s. dollar continues to weaken against other foreign currencies, some of our component suppliers may increase the price they charge for their components in order to maintain an equivalent profit margin. if this occurs, it would have a negative impact on our operating results. prices for our products are substantially u.s. dollar denominated, even when sold to customers that are located outside the u.s. therefore, as a substantial portion of our sales are from countries outside the u.s., fluctuations in currency exchanges rates, most notably the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against other foreign currencies, contribute to variations in sales of products in impacted jurisdictions and could adversely impact demand and revenue growth. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside the u.s. we have attempted to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into short-term, foreign exchange contracts. however, these contracts do not cover our full exposure and can be canceled by the counterparty if currency controls are put in place. currently, we hedge the thai baht, malaysian ringgit, euro and british pound sterling with foreign exchange contracts. 31 table of contents increases in our customers credit risk could result in credit losses and an increase in our operating costs. some of our oem customers have adopted a subcontractor model that requires us to contract directly with companies, such as odms, that provide manufacturing services to our oem customers. because these subcontractors are generally not as well capitalized as our direct oem customers, this subcontractor model exposes us to increased credit risks. our agreements with our oem customers may not permit us to increase our product prices to alleviate this increased credit risk. additionally, as we attempt to expand our oem and distribution channel sales into emerging economies such as brazil, russia, india and china, the customers with the most success in these regions may have relatively short operating histories, making it more difficult for us to accurately assess the associated credit risks. any credit losses we may suffer as a result of these increased risks, or as a result of credit losses from any significant customer, would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. inaccurate projections of demand for our product can cause large fluctuations in our quarterly results. we often ship a high percentage of our total quarterly sales in the third month of the quarter, which makes it difficult for us to forecast our financial results before the end of the quarter. in addition, our quarterly projections and results may be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a number of other factors including: the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major customers; our product mix; changes in the prices of our products; manufacturing delays or interruptions; acceptance by customers of competing products in lieu of our products; variations in the cost of and lead times for components for our products; limited availability of components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; competition and consolidation in the data storage industry; seasonal and other fluctuations in demand for pcs often due to technological advances; and availability and rates of transportation. rapidly changing conditions in the hard drive industry make it difficult to predict actual results. we have made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting. the highly technical nature of our products and the rapidly changing market conditions with which we deal means that actual results may differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions. these changes have impacted our financial results in the past and may continue to do so in the future. key estimates and assumptions for us include: price protection adjustments and other sales promotions and allowances on products sold to retailers, resellers and distributors; inventory adjustments for write-down of inventories to lower of cost or market value (net realizable value); reserves for doubtful accounts; accruals for product returns; accruals for warranty costs related to product defects; accruals for litigation and other contingencies; liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits; and expensing of stock-based compensation. 32 table of contents the market price of our common stock is volatile. the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, extremely volatile. factors such as the following may significantly affect the market price of our common stock: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors which may decrease the volume and profitability of sales of our existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence; new products introduced by us or our competitors; periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price erosion resulting from competitive pressures or industry consolidation; developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; conditions and trends in the hard drive, computer, data and content management, storage and communication industries; contraction in our operating results or growth rates that are lower than our previous high growth-rate periods; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts relating specifically to us or the hard drive industry in general; and macroeconomic conditions that affect the market generally. in addition, general economic conditions may cause the stock market to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations from time to time that particularly affect the stock prices of many high technology companies. these fluctuations often appear to be unrelated to the operating performance of the companies. securities class action lawsuits are often brought against companies after periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. a number of such suits have been filed against us in the past, and should any new lawsuits be filed, such matters could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources and management attention. current economic conditions have caused us difficulty in adequately protecting our increased cash and cash equivalents from financial institution failures. the uncertain global economic conditions and volatile investment markets have caused us to hold more cash and cash equivalents than we would hold under normal circumstances. since there has been an overall increase in demand for low-risk, u.s. government backed securities with a limited supply in the financial marketplace, we face increased difficulty in adequately protecting our increased cash and cash equivalents from possible sudden and unforeseeable failures by banks and other financial institutions. a failure of any of these financial institutions in which deposits exceed fdic limits could have an adverse impact on our financial position. if our internal controls are found to be ineffective, our financial results or our stock price may be adversely affected. our most recent evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of july 2, 2010, in compliance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, our internal control over financial reporting was effective. we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place for future periods; however, if our internal control over financial reporting is found to be ineffective or if we identify a material weakness or significant deficiency in our financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which may adversely affect our financial results or our stock price. from time to time we may become subject to income tax audits or similar proceedings, and as a result we may incur additional costs and expenses or owe additional taxes, interest and penalties that may negatively impact our operating results. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and certain foreign jurisdictions, and our determination of our tax liability is subject to review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities. for example, as we have previously disclosed, we are under examination of certain of our fiscal years by the u.s. internal revenue service (the irs ). 33 table of contents although we believe our tax positions are reasonable, the outcomes and timing of these audits are subject to significant uncertainty and could result in our having to pay amounts to the applicable tax authority in order to resolve examination of our tax positions, which could result in an increase or decrease of our current estimate of unrecognized tax benefits and may negatively impact our financial position, results of operations, net income or cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk disclosure about foreign currency risk although the majority of our transactions are in u.s. dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. we purchase short-term, foreign exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations on certain underlying assets, revenue, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. the purpose of entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. the contract maturity dates do not exceed 12 months. we do not purchase forward exchange contracts for trading purposes. currently, we focus on hedging our foreign currency risk related to the thai baht, malaysian ringgit, euro and british pound sterling. malaysian ringgit contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. euro and british pound sterling contracts are designated as fair value hedges. thai baht contracts are designated as either cash flow or fair value hedges. see part ii, item 8, notes 1 and 11 in the notes to consolidated financial statements, included in this annual report on form 10-k. as of july 2, 2010, we had outstanding the following purchased foreign exchange contracts (in millions, except weighted average contract rate): contract weighted average unrealized amount contract rate* gain foreign exchange contracts: thai baht cash flow hedges $ 789 32.78 $ 5 thai baht fair value hedges $ 66 32.43 malaysian ringgit cash flow hedges $ 265 3.36 6 euro fair value hedges $ 8 0.80 british pound sterling fair value hedges $ 6 0.66 * expressed in units of foreign currency per u.s. dollar. in 2010, 2009 and 2008, total net realized transaction and foreign exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to our consolidated financial statements. disclosure about other market risks variable interest rate risk borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at a rate equal to, at the option of wdti, either (a) a libor rate determined by reference to the cost of funds for eurodollar deposits for the interest period relevant to such borrowing, adjusted for certain additional costs (the eurocurrency rate ); or (b) a base rate determined by reference to the higher of (i) the federal funds rate plus 0.50% and (ii) the prime rate as announced by jpmorgan chase bank, n.a. (the base rate ); in each case plus an applicable margin. the applicable margin for borrowings under the term loan facility ranges from 1.25% to 1.50% with respect to borrowings at the eurocurrency rate and 0.0% to 0.125% with respect to borrowings at the base rate. the applicable margins for borrowings under the credit facility are determined based upon a leverage ratio of the company and its subsidiaries calculated on a consolidated basis. if the federal funds rate, prime rate or libor rate increases, our interest payments could also increase. a one percent increase in the variable rate of interest on the credit facility would increase interest expense by approximately $4 million annually. 48 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors the successful completion of our planned acquisition of hgst is subject to risks and uncertainties, including obtaining the requisite regulatory approvals, and our business may suffer in the event we fail to successfully complete the acquisition. in march 2011, we announced our planned acquisition of hgst. completion of the planned acquisition of hgst is subject to risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to: required government approvals. completion of our planned acquisition of hgst is conditioned upon, among other things, obtaining required governmental approvals. while certain governmental approvals have been obtained, the transaction remains conditioned upon the receipt of approval from the united states, the european union, the people republic of china, japan, korea and mexico. there is no assurance that we will obtain such approvals or, if obtained, the timing of the approvals. we agreed to take any and all actions to obtain the requisite governmental approvals in specified jurisdictions unless such action would reasonably be expected to materially impair the business operations of the combined company absent such imposed condition. there can be no assurance that conditions or changes will not be imposed and any such conditions or changes could have the effect of jeopardizing or delaying completion of the planned acquisition or reducing the anticipated benefits of the planned acquisition. if we agree to any material conditions in order to obtain any approvals required to complete the planned acquisition, the business and results of operations of the combined company may be adversely affected. termination fee. if the acquisition agreement is terminated by any party because the acquisition has not closed by march 7, 2012, and if, as of the time of such termination, certain regulatory and antitrust closing conditions have not been satisfied due to the failure to receive any required antitrust or competition consent, approval or 12 table of contents clearance or any action by any certain governmental entities to prevent the acquisition for antitrust or competition reasons, then we will be required to pay a termination fee of $250 million. transaction costs. we have incurred and will continue to incur costs relating to the planned acquisition (including significant legal and financial advisory fees) and many of these costs are payable by us whether or not the planned acquisition is completed. time and resources commitment. matters relating to the planned acquisition (including integration planning) have and will continue to require substantial commitments of time and resources by our management team, which could otherwise have been devoted to other opportunities that may have been beneficial to us. financing. we may fail to complete the planned financing for the transaction. these risks and uncertainties regarding the acquisition may adversely affect our relationships with our vendors and customers, which could harm our operating results. in addition, in the event that the acquisition is not completed or is delayed, our business could suffer and the current market price of our common stock may decline. even if we successfully complete our planned acquisition of hgst, we may fail to successfully integrate hgst business into our operations and realize the anticipated benefits from such integration on a timely basis, or at all, which could negatively impact our business. the success of our planned acquisition of hgst will depend on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from integrating hgst business into our operations. due to legal restrictions, we and hgst have conducted, and until the completion of the planned acquisition will conduct, only limited planning regarding the integration of the two companies following the acquisition. our ongoing business could be disrupted and our management attention diverted due to these integration planning activities and as a result of the actual integration of the two companies following the acquisition. following the planned acquisition, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits from this integration on a timely basis, or at all, for a variety of reasons, including the following: difficulties entering new markets or manufacturing in new geographies where we have no or limited direct prior experience; difficulties in coordinating geographically separate organizations, which may be subject to additional complications resulting from being geographically distant from our other operations; failure to identify or assess the magnitude of certain liabilities we are assuming in the acquisition, which could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition; failure to realize the anticipated increase in our revenues due to the acquisition if customers adjust their purchasing decisions and allocate more market share to our competitors; difficulties or delays in incorporating acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines and maintaining uniform standards, controls, processes and policies; failure to successfully manage relationships with our combined supplier and customer base; the impact of the march 2011 earthquakes, tsunami and related events in japan on hgst business, component supply or japan facilities; difficulties integrating and harmonizing business systems; difficulties in modifying hgst existing accounting and internal control systems to comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, to which hgst is not currently subject, which could adversely impact the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting for the combined company; and the loss of key employees. if we are not able to successfully integrate hgst business and technology into our operations, the anticipated benefits and efficiencies of the planned acquisition may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than 13 table of contents expected, and our ability to compete, our revenue and gross margins and our results of operations may be adversely affected. the integration of hgst may result in significant restructuring charges that could adversely affect the financial results of the combined company. the financial results of the combined company may be adversely affected by cash expenses and non-cash accounting charges incurred in connection with the combination. the amount and timing of these possible charges are not yet known. the price of our common stock following the acquisition could decline to the extent the combined company financial results are materially affected by these charges. the financing of our planned hgst acquisition will dilute our stockholders ownership interest in the company, and may have an adverse impact on our liquidity, limit our flexibility in responding to other business opportunities and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. our planned acquisition of hgst will be financed by a combination of the issuance of additional shares of our common stock, the use of a significant amount of our cash on hand and the incurrence of a significant amount of indebtedness. the issuance of additional shares of our common stock will dilute your ownership interest in the company. the use of cash on hand and indebtedness to finance the acquisition will reduce our liquidity and could cause us to place more reliance on cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for operations and development activities. the credit agreement we expect to enter into with respect to the indebtedness we will incur to finance the planned acquisition contains restrictive covenants, including financial covenants requiring us to maintain specified financial ratios. our ability to meet these restrictive covenants can be affected by events beyond our control. the indebtedness and these restrictive covenants will also have the effect, among other things, of impairing our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, limiting our flexibility in the conduct of our business and making us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions. in addition, a breach of the restrictive covenants could result in an event of default under the credit agreement we will enter into with respect to the indebtedness, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. adverse global economic conditions and credit market uncertainty could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. adverse global economic conditions and uncertain conditions in the credit market have had, and in the future could have, a significant adverse effect on our company and on the storage industry as a whole. some of the risks and uncertainties we face as a result of these global economic and credit market conditions include the following: volatile demand. negative or uncertain global economic conditions could cause many of our direct and indirect customers to delay or reduce their purchases of our products and systems containing our products. in addition, many of our customers rely on credit financing to purchase our products. if negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers access to credit, product orders may decrease, which could result in lower revenue. likewise, if our suppliers, sub-suppliers and sub-contractors (collectively referred to as suppliers ) face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may be unable to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products. these actions could result in reductions in our revenue and increased operating costs, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. restructuring activities. if demand slows significantly as a result of a deterioration in economic conditions or otherwise, we may need to execute restructuring activities to realign our cost structure with softening demand. the occurrence of restructuring activities could result in impairment charges and other expenses, which could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. credit volatility and loss of receivables. we extend credit and payment terms to some of our customers. in addition to ongoing credit evaluations of our customers financial condition, we traditionally seek to mitigate our credit risk by purchasing credit insurance on certain of our accounts receivable balances. as a result of the 14 table of contents continued uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions, however, we may find it increasingly difficult to be able to insure these accounts receivable. we could suffer significant losses if a customer whose accounts receivable we have not insured, or have underinsured, fails and is unable to pay us. additionally, negative or uncertain global economic conditions increase the risk that if a customer whose accounts receivable we have insured fails, the financial condition of the insurance carrier for such customer account may have also deteriorated such that it cannot cover our loss. a significant loss of an accounts receivable that we cannot recover through credit insurance would have a negative impact on our financial results. impairment charges. negative or uncertain global economic conditions could result in circumstances, such as a sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization or a decrease in our forecasted cash flows such that they are insufficient, indicating that the carrying value of our long-lived assets or goodwill may be impaired. if we are required to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements because an impairment of our long-lived assets or goodwill is determined, our results of operations will be adversely affected. we participate in a highly competitive industry that is subject to the risk of declining average selling prices ( asps ), volatile gross margins and significant shifts in market share, all of which could adversely affect our operating results. demand for our hard drives depends in large part on the demand for systems manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems. the demand for systems has been volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand for hard drives in any given period. as a result, the hard drive market has experienced periods of excess capacity, which can lead to liquidation of excess inventories and more intense price competition. if more intense price competition occurs, we may be forced to lower prices sooner and more than expected, which could result in lower asps, revenue and gross margins. our asps and gross margins also tend to decline when there is a shift in the mix of product sales, and sales of lower priced products increase relative to those of higher priced products. in addition, rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and profitability of sales of existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence. these factors, along with others, may result in significant shifts in market share among the industry major participants. our failure to accurately forecast market and customer demand for our products, or to quickly adjust to forecast changes, could adversely affect our business and financial results or operating efficiencies. the data storage industry faces difficulties in accurately forecasting market and customer demand for its products. the variety and volume of products we manufacture is based in part on these forecasts. accurately forecasting demand has become increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers in light of the volatility in global economic conditions and a recent shift from air to ocean freight in response to increased transportation costs, which requires additional lead times. in addition, because hard drives are designed to be largely substitutable, our demand forecasts may be impacted significantly by the strategic actions of our competitors. as forecasting demand becomes more difficult, the risk that our forecasts are not in line with demand increases. if our forecasts exceed actual market demand, then we could experience periods of product oversupply and price decreases, which could impact our financial performance. if market demand increases significantly beyond our forecasts or beyond our ability to add manufacturing capacity, then we may not be able to satisfy customer product needs, which could result in a loss of market share if our competitors are able to meet customer demands. we experience significant sales seasonality and cyclicality, which could cause our operating results to fluctuate. sales of computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics tend to be seasonal and cyclical, and therefore we expect to continue to experience seasonality and cyclicality in our business as we respond to variations in our customers demand for hard drives. in the desktop, mobile, ce and retail markets, seasonality is partially attributable to the increase in sales of pcs and ce devices during the back-to-school and winter holiday seasons. as such, we anticipate that sales of our products will continue to be lower during the second half of our fiscal year. however, recently we have experienced stronger-than-anticipated demand partially driven by the increased adoption of sea freight in the pc supply chain. in the enterprise market our sales are seasonal because of the capital budgeting and purchasing cycles of our end users. however, changes in seasonal and cyclical patterns have made it, and could continue to make it, more difficult for us to forecast demand, especially in the current macroeconomic environment. changes in the product or channel mix of our business can also impact seasonal and cyclical patterns, adding complexity in forecasting demand. seasonality and 15 table of contents cyclicality also may lead to higher volatility in our stock price. it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which seasonality and cyclicality may affect our stock price or business in future periods because of the rate and unpredictability of product transitions and new product introductions and macroeconomic conditions. our customers demand for storage capacity may not continue to grow at current industry estimates, which may lower the prices our customers are willing to pay for our products or put us at a disadvantage to competing technologies. our customers demand for storage capacity may not continue to grow at current industry estimates as a result of: mobile devices. there has been a recent rapid growth in ce devices that do not contain a hard drive such as tablet computers and smartphones. while tablet computers and smartphones provide many of the same capabilities as pcs, the extent to which they will displace or materially affect the demand for pcs is uncertain. if device-makers are successful in achieving customer acceptance of these devices as a replacement for traditional computing applications that contain hard drives, or if we are not successful in adapting our product offerings to include alternative storage solutions that address these devices, then demand for our products may decrease. cloud computing. consumers traditionally have stored their data on their pc, often supplemented with personal external storage devices. most businesses also include similar local storage as a primary or secondary storage location. this storage is typically provided by hard disk drives. recently, cloud computing has emerged whereby applications and data are hosted, accessed and processed through a third-party provider over a broadband internet connection, potentially reducing or eliminating the need for, among other things, significant storage inside the accessing computer. this trend could cause the market for disk drives in computers to decline over time, which could harm our business to the extent this decline is not offset by the sale of our products to customers who provide cloud computing services. demand for our products also could be negatively impacted by developments in the regulation and enforcement of digital rights management, the emergence of processes such as data deduplication and storage virtualization, economic conditions, and the rate of increase in areal density exceeding the increase in our customers demand for storage capacity. these factors could lead to our customers storage capacity needs being satisfied at lower prices with lower capacity hard drives or solid-state storage products that we do not offer, thereby decreasing our revenue or putting us at a disadvantage to competing storage technologies. as a result, even with increasing aggregate demand for storage capacity, if we fail to anticipate or timely respond to these developments in the demand for storage, our asps could decline, which could adversely affect our operating results. selling to the retail market is an important part of our business, and if we fail to maintain and grow our market share or gain market acceptance of our branded products, our operating results could suffer. selling branded products is an important part of our business, and as our branded products revenue increases as a portion of our overall revenue, our success in the retail market becomes increasingly important to our operating results. our success in the retail market depends in large part on our ability to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation and to expand into and gain market acceptance of our products in multiple channels. adverse publicity, whether or not justified, or allegations of product quality issues, even if false or unfounded, could tarnish our reputation and cause our customers to choose products offered by our competitors. in addition, the proliferation of new methods of mass communication facilitated by the internet makes it easier for false or unfounded allegations to adversely affect our brand image and reputation. if customers no longer maintain a preference for wd - brand products, our operating results may be adversely affected. sales in the distribution channel are important to our business, and if we fail to respond to demand changes in distribution markets or if distribution markets for hard drives weaken, our operating results could suffer. our distribution customers typically sell to small computer manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators and other resellers. we face significant competition in this channel as a result of limited product qualification programs and a significant focus on price and availability of product. in addition, the pc market is experiencing a shift to notebook and other mobile devices and, as a result, more computing devices are being delivered to the market as complete systems, which could weaken the distribution market. if we fail to respond to changes in demand in the distribution market, our operating results could suffer. additionally, if the distribution market weakens as a result of a slowing pc growth rate, 16 table of contents technology transitions or a significant change in consumer buying preference, or if we experience significant price declines due to demand changes in the distribution channel, then our operating results would be adversely affected. loss of market share with or by a key customer, or consolidation among our customer base, could harm our operating results. during the year ended july 1, 2011, a large percentage of our revenue, 49%, came from sales to our top 10 customers. these customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial demands on us, including demands on product pricing and on contractual terms, which often results in the allocation of risk to us as the supplier. our ability to maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is essential to our future performance. if we lose a key customer, if any of our key customers reduce their orders of our products or require us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, if a customer is acquired by one of our competitors or if a key customer suffers financial hardship, our operating results would likely be harmed. additionally, if there is consolidation among our customer base, our customers may be able to command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. in addition, if, as a result of increased leverage, customer pressures require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, we could decide not to sell our products to a particular customer, which could result in a decrease in our revenue. consolidation among our customer base may also lead to reduced demand for our products, replacement of our products by the combined entity with those of our competitors and cancellations of orders, each of which could harm our operating results. our entry into additional storage markets increases the complexity of our business, and if we are unable to successfully adapt our business processes as required by these new markets, we will be at a competitive disadvantage and our ability to grow will be adversely affected. as we expand our product line to sell into additional storage markets, the overall complexity of our business increases at an accelerated rate and we become subject to different market dynamics. the new markets into which we are expanding, or may expand, may have different characteristics from the markets in which we currently exist. these different characteristics may include, among other things, demand volume requirements, demand seasonality, product generation development rates, customer concentrations, warranty and product return policies and performance and compatibility requirements. our failure to make the necessary adaptations to our business model to address these different characteristics, complexities and new market dynamics could adversely affect our operating results. for example, as we have previously disclosed, we entered the traditional enterprise market in november 2009. in addition to requiring significant capital expenditures, our entry into the traditional enterprise market adds complexity to our business that requires us to effectively adapt our business and management processes to address the unique challenges and different requirements of the traditional enterprise market, while maintaining a competitive operating cost model. if we fail to gain market acceptance in the traditional enterprise storage market, we will remain at a competitive disadvantage to the companies that succeed in this market and our ability to continue our growth will be negatively affected. expansion into new hard drive markets may cause our capital expenditures to increase, and if we do not successfully expand into new markets, our business may suffer. to remain a significant supplier of hard drives, we will need to offer a broad range of hard drive products to our customers. we currently offer a variety of 3.5-inch or 2.5-inch hard drives for the desktop, mobile, enterprise, ce and external storage markets. however, demand for hard drives may shift to products in form factors or with interfaces that our competitors offer but which we do not. expansion into other hard drive markets and resulting increases in manufacturing capacity requirements may require us to make substantial additional investments in part because our operations are largely vertically integrated now that we manufacture heads and magnetic media for use in many of the hard drives we manufacture. if we fail to successfully expand into new hard drive markets with products that we do not currently offer, we may lose business to our competitors who offer these products. 17 table of contents our vertical integration of head and magnetic media manufacturing makes us dependent on our ability to timely and cost-effectively develop heads and magnetic media with leading technology and overall quality, and creates additional capital expenditure costs and asset utilization risks to our business. under our business plan, we are developing and manufacturing a substantial portion of the heads and magnetic media used in the hard drive products we manufacture. consequently, we are more dependent upon our own development and execution efforts and less able to take advantage of head and magnetic media technologies developed by other manufacturers. technology transition for head and magnetic media designs is critical to increasing our volume production of heads and magnetic media. there can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful in timely and cost-effectively developing and manufacturing heads or magnetic media for products using future technologies. we also may not effectively transition our head or magnetic media design and technology to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields using the technologies necessary to satisfy our customers product needs, or we may encounter quality problems with the heads or magnetic media we manufacture. if we are unable to timely and cost-effectively develop heads and magnetic media with leading technology and overall quality, our ability to sell our products may be significantly diminished, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. in addition, as a result of our vertical integration of head and magnetic media manufacturing, we make more capital investments and carry a higher percentage of fixed costs than we would if we were not vertically integrated. if our overall level of production decreases for any reason, and we are unable to reduce our fixed costs to match sales, our head or magnetic media manufacturing assets may face under-utilization that may impact our operating results. we are therefore subject to additional risks related to overall asset utilization, including the need to operate at high levels of utilization to drive competitive costs and the need for assured supply of components that we do not manufacture ourselves. if we do not adequately address the challenges related to our head or magnetic media manufacturing operations, our ongoing operations could be disrupted, resulting in a decrease in our revenue or profit margins and negatively impacting our operating results. we make significant investments in research and development to improve our technology and develop new technologies, and unsuccessful investments could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. over the past several years, our business strategy has been to derive a competitive advantage by moving from being a follower of new technologies to being a leader in the innovation and development of new technologies. this strategy requires us to make significant investments in research and development and, in attempting to remain competitive, we may increase our capital expenditures and expenses above our historical run-rate model. there can be no assurance that these investments will result in viable technologies or products, or if these investments do result in viable technologies or products, that they will be profitable or accepted by the market. significant investments in unsuccessful research and development efforts could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, increased investments in technology could cause our cost structure to fall out of alignment with demand for our products, which would have a negative impact on our financial results. current or future competitors may gain a technology advantage or develop an advantageous cost structure that we cannot match. it may be possible for our current or future competitors to gain an advantage in product technology, manufacturing technology, or process technology, which may allow them to offer products or services that have a significant advantage over the products and services that we offer. advantages could be in capacity, performance, reliability, serviceability, or other attributes. a competitive cost structure for our products, including critical components, labor and overhead, is also critical to the success of our business. we may be at a competitive disadvantage to any companies that are able to gain a technological or cost structure advantage. further industry consolidation could provide competitive advantages to our competitors. the hard drive industry has experienced consolidation over the past several years. consolidation by our competitors may enhance their capacity, abilities and resources and lower their cost structure, causing us to be at a competitive disadvantage. 18 table of contents some of our competitors with diversified business units outside the hard drive industry may over extended periods of time sell hard drives at prices that we cannot profitably match. some of our competitors earn a significant portion of their revenue from business units outside the hard drive industry. because they do not depend solely on sales of hard drives to achieve profitability, they may sell hard drives at lower prices and operate their hard drive business unit at a loss over an extended period of time while still remaining profitable overall. in addition, if these competitors can increase sales of non-hard drive products to the same customers, they may benefit from selling their hard drives at lower prices. our operating results may be adversely affected if we cannot successfully compete with the pricing by these companies. if we fail to qualify our products with our customers or if product life cycles lengthen, it may have a significant adverse impact on our sales and margins. we regularly engage in new product qualification with our customers. once a product is accepted for qualification testing, failures or delays in the qualification process can result in delayed or reduced product sales, reduced product margins caused by having to continue to offer a more costly current generation product, or lost sales to that customer until the next generation of products is introduced. the effect of missing a product qualification opportunity is magnified by the limited number of high volume oems, which continue to consolidate their share of the storage markets. likewise, if product life cycles lengthen, we may have a significantly longer period to wait before we have an opportunity to qualify a new product with a customer, which could reduce our profits because we expect declining gross margins on our current generation products as a result of competitive pressures. we are subject to risks related to product defects, which could result in product recalls or epidemic failures and could subject us to warranty claims in excess of our warranty provisions or which are greater than anticipated. we warrant the majority of our products for periods of one to five years. we test our hard drives in our manufacturing facilities through a variety of means. however, there can be no assurance that our testing will reveal defects in our products, which may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market. accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will occur, which could require a product recall. product recalls can be expensive to implement and, if a product recall occurs during the product warranty period, we may be required to replace the defective product. moreover, there is a risk that product defects may trigger an epidemic failure clause in a customer agreement. if an epidemic failure occurs, we may be required to replace or refund the value of the defective product and to cover certain other costs associated with the consequences of the epidemic failure. in addition, a product recall or epidemic failure may damage our reputation or customer relationships, and may cause us to lose market share with our customers, including our oem and odm customers. our standard warranties contain limits on damages and exclusions of liability for consequential damages and for misuse, improper installation, alteration, accident or mishandling while in the possession of someone other than us. we record an accrual for estimated warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. we may incur additional operating expenses if our warranty provision does not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues related to defects in our products, whether as a result of a product recall, epidemic failure or otherwise. if these additional expenses are significant, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. dependence on a limited number of qualified suppliers of components and manufacturing equipment could lead to delays, lost revenue or increased costs. our future operating results may depend substantially on our suppliers ability to timely qualify their components in our programs, and their ability to supply us with these components in sufficient volumes to meet our production requirements. a number of the components that we use are available from only a single or limited number of qualified suppliers, and may be used across multiple product lines. as such, the success of our products depends on our ability to gain access to and integrate parts from reliable component suppliers. to do so, we must maintain effective relationships with our supply base to source our component needs, develop compatible technology, and maintain continuity of supply at reasonable costs. if we fail to maintain effective relationships with our supply base, or if we fail to integrate components from our suppliers effectively, this may adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver the best products to our customers and our profitability could suffer. 19 table of contents certain equipment and consumables we use in our manufacturing or testing processes are available only from a limited number of suppliers. some of this equipment and consumables use materials that at times could be in short supply. if these materials are not available, or are not available in the quantities we require for our manufacturing and testing processes, our ability to manufacture our products could be impacted, and we could suffer significant loss of revenue. each of the following could also significantly harm our operating results: an unwillingness of a supplier to supply such components or equipment to us; consolidation of key suppliers; failure of a key supplier business process; a key supplier or sub-supplier inability to access credit necessary to operate its business; or failure of a key supplier to remain in business, to remain an independent merchant supplier, or to adjust to market conditions. shortages of commodity materials or commodity components, price volatility, or use by other industries of materials and components used in the hard drive industry, may negatively impact our operating results. increases in the cost for certain commodity materials or commodity components may increase our costs of manufacturing and transporting hard drives and key components. shortages of commodity components such as dram and nand flash, or commodity materials such as glass substrates, stainless steel, aluminum, nickel, neodymium, ruthenium, platinum or cerium, may increase our costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to find ways to mitigate these increased costs. we or our suppliers acquire certain precious metals and rare earth metals like ruthenium, platinum, neodymium and cerium, critical to the manufacture of components in our products from a number of countries, including the people republic of china. the government of china or any other nation may impose regulations, quotas or embargoes upon these metals that would restrict the worldwide supply of such metals and/or increase their cost, both of which could negatively impact our operating results until alternative suppliers are sourced. furthermore, if other high volume industries increase their demand for materials or components used in our products, our costs may further increase, which could have an adverse effect on our operating margins. in addition, shortages in other commodity components and materials used in our customers products could result in a decrease in demand for our products, which would negatively impact our operating results. the volatility in the cost of oil also affects our costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to pass these increased costs on to our customers. contractual commitments with component suppliers may result in us paying increased charges and cash advances for such components or may cause us to have inadequate or excess component inventory. to reduce the risk of component shortages, we attempt to provide significant lead times when buying components, which may subject us to cancellation charges if we cancel orders as a result of technology transitions or changes in our component needs. in addition, we may from time to time enter into contractual commitments with component suppliers in an effort to increase and stabilize the supply of those components and enable us to purchase such components at favorable prices. some of these commitments may require us to buy a substantial number of components from the supplier or make significant cash advances to the supplier; however, these commitments may not result in a satisfactory increase or stabilization of the supply of such components. furthermore, as a result of uncertain global economic conditions, our ability to forecast our requirements for these components has become increasingly difficult, therefore increasing the risk that our contractual commitments may not meet our actual supply requirements, which could cause us to have inadequate or excess component inventory and adversely affect our operating results and increase our operating costs. failure by certain suppliers to effectively and efficiently develop and manufacture components, technology or production equipment for our products may adversely affect our operations. we rely on suppliers for various component parts that we integrate into our hard drives but do not manufacture ourselves, such as semiconductors, motors, flex circuits and suspensions. likewise, we rely on suppliers for certain 20 table of contents technology and equipment necessary for advanced development technology for future products. some of these components, and most of this technology and production equipment, must be specifically designed to be compatible for use in our products or for developing and manufacturing our future products, and are only available from a limited number of suppliers, some of with whom we are sole sourced. we are therefore dependent on these suppliers to be able and willing to dedicate adequate engineering resources to develop components that can be successfully integrated with our products, and technology and production equipment that can be used to develop and manufacture our next-generation products efficiently. the failure of these suppliers to effectively and efficiently develop and manufacture components that can be integrated into our products or technology and production equipment that can be used to develop or manufacture next generation products may cause us to experience inability or delay in our manufacturing and shipment of hard drive products, our expansion into new technology and markets, or our ability to remain competitive with alternative storage technologies, therefore adversely affecting our business and financial results. changes in product life cycles could adversely affect our financial results. if product life cycles lengthen, we may need to develop new technologies or programs to reduce our costs on any particular product to maintain competitive pricing for that product. if product life cycles shorten, it may result in an increase in our overall expenses and a decrease in our gross margins, both of which could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, shortening of product life cycles also makes it more difficult to recover the cost of product development before the product becomes obsolete. our failure to recover the cost of product development in the future could adversely affect our operating results. a fundamental change in recording technology could result in significant increases in our operating expenses and could put us at a competitive disadvantage. historically, when the industry experiences a fundamental change in technology, any manufacturer that fails to successfully and timely adjust its designs and processes to accommodate the new technology fails to remain competitive. there are some revolutionary technologies, such as current-perpendicular-to-plane giant magnetoresistance, shingle magnetic recording, energy assisted magnetic recording, patterned magnetic media and advanced signal processing, that if implemented by a competitor on a commercially viable basis ahead of the industry, could put us at a competitive disadvantage. as a result of these technology shifts, we could incur substantial costs in developing new technologies, such as heads, magnetic media, and tools to remain competitive. if we fail to successfully implement these new technologies, or if we are significantly slower than our competitors at implementing new technologies, we may not be able to offer products with capacities that our customers desire. the difficulty of introducing hard drives with higher levels of areal density and the challenges of reducing other costs may impact our ability to achieve historical levels of cost reduction. storage capacity of the hard drive, as manufactured by us, is determined by the number of disks and each disk areal density. areal density is a measure of the amount of magnetic bits that can be stored on the recording surface of the disk. generally, the higher the areal density, the more information can be stored on a single platter. higher areal densities require existing head and magnetic media technology to be improved or new technologies developed to accommodate more data on a single disk. historically, we have been able to achieve a large percentage of cost reduction through increases in areal density. increases in areal density mean that the average drive we sell has fewer heads and disks for the same capacity and, therefore, may result in a lower component cost. however, increasing areal density has become more difficult in the hard drive industry. if we are not able to increase areal density at the same rate as our competitors or at a rate that is expected by our customers, we may be required to include more components in our drives to meet demand without corresponding incremental revenue, which could negatively impact our operating margins and make achieving historical levels of cost reduction difficult or unlikely. additionally, increases in areal density may require us to make further capital expenditures on items such as new testing equipment needed as a result of an increased number of gb per platter. our inability to achieve cost reductions could adversely affect our operating results. 21 table of contents if we do not properly manage technology transitions and new product development, our competitiveness and operating results may be negatively affected. the storage markets in which we offer our products continuously undergo technology transitions which we must anticipate and adapt our products to address in a timely manner. if we fail to implement these new technologies successfully, or if we are slower than our competitors at implementing new technologies, we may not be able to competitively offer products that our customers desire, which could harm our operating results. in addition, the success of our new product introductions depends on a number of other factors, including difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp; implementing at an acceptable cost product features expected by our customers; market acceptance/qualification; effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand; and quality problems or other defects in the early stages of new product introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products. our business may suffer if we fail to successfully anticipate and manage these issues associated with our product development. if we fail to develop and introduce new hard drives that are competitive against alternative storage technologies, our business may suffer. our success depends in part on our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner in order to keep pace with competing technologies. alternative storage technologies like solid-state storage technology have successfully served digital entertainment markets for products such as digital cameras, mp3 players, usb flash drives, mobile phones and tablet devices that cannot be economically serviced using hard drive technology. advances in semiconductor technology have resulted in solid-state storage emerging as a technology that is competitive with hard drives for high performance needs in advanced digital computing markets such as enterprise servers and storage. solid-state storage is produced by large semiconductor companies who can then sell their storage products at lower prices while still remaining profitable overall. this can help them improve their market share at the expense of the competition. in addition, these semiconductor companies may choose to supply companies like us with semiconductor media at prices that make it difficult, if not impossible, for us to compete with them on a profitable basis. as a result, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in anticipating and developing new products for the desktop, mobile, enterprise, ce and external storage markets in response to solid-state storage, as well as other competing technologies. if our hard drive technology fails to offer higher capacity, performance and reliability with lower cost-per-gigabyte than solid-state storage for the desktop, mobile, enterprise, ce and external storage markets, we will be at a competitive disadvantage to companies using semiconductor technology to serve these markets and our business will suffer. our manufacturing operations, and those of certain of our suppliers and customers, are concentrated in large, purpose-built facilities, which subjects us to substantial risk of damage or loss if operations at any of these facilities are disrupted. as a result of our cost structure and strategy of vertical integration, we conduct our manufacturing operations at large, high volume, purpose-built facilities. for example, a substantial majority of our requirement for heads is satisfied by wafers fabricated in our fremont, california facility. also, we manufacture the majority of our substrates for magnetic media in our johor, malaysia facility, and we finish a majority of our magnetic media in our facilities in penang, malaysia and tuas, singapore. a majority of our high volume hard drive manufacturing operations are conducted in our two facilities in thailand, with the balance conducted in our kuala lumpur, malaysia facility and the facilities of our contract manufacturers in asia, brazil, europe and the united states. as part of our planned acquisition of hgst, we will also acquire manufacturing facilities located in japan, china and the philippines (as well as additional factories in singapore, thailand and malaysia). the manufacturing facilities of many of our customers, our suppliers and our customers suppliers are also concentrated in certain geographic locations in asia and elsewhere. a localized health risk affecting our employees at these facilities or the staff of our or our customers other suppliers, such as the spread of the influenza a (h1n1) or a new pandemic influenza, could impair the total volume of hard drives that we are able to manufacture and/or 22 table of contents sell, which would result in substantial harm to our operating results. similarly, a fire, flood, earthquake, tsunami or other disaster, condition or event such as political instability, civil unrest or a power outage that adversely affects any of these facilities would significantly affect our ability to manufacture and/or sell hard drives, which would result in a substantial loss of sales and revenue and a substantial harm to our operating results. for example, while we presently do not have manufacturing operations located in japan, we do source certain components from suppliers with facilities in japan. the march 2011 earthquakes, tsunami and related events in japan, including the resulting power outages, have affected and may continue to affect the supply of certain components used in the production of hard drives and systems that include hard drives. the development of events in japan has, however, been fluid and unpredictable. if we experience any shortage of components of acceptable quality, or any interruption in the supply of required components we cannot promptly obtain from alternative sources at acceptable prices, our operating results would be adversely affected. in addition, even if the events in japan do not adversely affect our component supply, they may adversely affect the supply of other components our customers use in their systems, which could negatively impact demand for our products and, therefore, our revenues. manufacturing outside the united states and marketing our products globally subjects us to numerous risks. we are subject to risks associated with our global manufacturing operations and global marketing efforts, including: obtaining requisite u.s. and foreign governmental permits and approvals; currency exchange rate fluctuations or restrictions; political instability and civil unrest; limited transportation availability, delays, and extended time required for shipping, which risks may be compounded in periods of price declines; higher freight rates; labor problems; trade restrictions or higher tariffs; copyright levies or similar fees or taxes imposed in european and other countries; exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations; increasing labor and overhead costs; and loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities. terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business and operating results. the continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility have created uncertainty in the financial and insurance markets and have significantly increased the political, economic and social instability in some of the geographic areas in which we operate. additionally, it is uncertain what impact the reactions to such acts by various governmental agencies and security regulators worldwide will have on shipping costs. acts of terrorism, either domestically or abroad, could create further uncertainties and instability. to the extent this results in disruption or delays of our manufacturing capabilities or shipments of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. sudden disruptions to the availability of freight lanes could have an impact on our operations. we generally ship our products to our customers, and receive shipments from our suppliers, via air, ocean or land freight. the sudden unavailability or disruption of cargo operations or freight lanes, such as due to labor difficulties or disputes, severe weather patterns or other natural disasters, or political instability or civil unrest, could impact our operating results by impairing our ability to timely and efficiently deliver our products. 23 table of contents we are vulnerable to system failures or attacks, which could harm our business. we are heavily dependent on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to operate our factories, sell our products, fulfill orders, manage inventory and bill, collect and make payments. our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and other events. our business is also subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism by third parties as well as employees. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, interruptions in our business, which could harm our reputation and financial condition. if we fail to identify, manage, complete and integrate acquisitions, investment opportunities or other significant transactions, it may adversely affect our future results. as part of our growth strategy, we may pursue acquisitions of, investment opportunities in or other significant transactions with companies that are complementary to our business. in order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify attractive acquisition or investment opportunities, successfully complete the transaction, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as integration of the acquired company or employees. we may not be able to identify or complete appealing acquisition or investment opportunities given the intense competition for these transactions. even if we identify and complete suitable corporate transactions, we may not be able to successfully address any integration challenges in a timely manner, or at all. if we fail to successfully integrate an acquisition, we may not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, and our future results of operations could be adversely affected. if we are unable to retain or hire key staff and skilled employees our business results may suffer. our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key staff and skilled employees, many of whom would be extremely difficult to replace. global competition for skilled employees in the data storage industry is intense and, as we attempt to move to a position of technology leadership in the storage industry, our business success becomes increasingly dependent on our ability to retain our key staff and skilled employees as well as attract, integrate and retain new skilled employees. volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price and the overall markets may adversely affect our ability to retain key staff or skilled employees who have received equity compensation. additionally, because a substantial portion of our key employees compensation is placed at risk and linked to the performance of our business, when our operating results are negatively impacted by global economic conditions, we are at a competitive disadvantage for retaining and hiring key staff and skilled employees versus other companies that pay a relatively higher fixed salary. if we are unable to retain our existing key staff or skilled employees, or hire and integrate new key staff or skilled employees, or if we fail to implement succession plans for our key staff, our operating results would likely be harmed. the nature of our business and our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk of significant litigation. the data storage industry has been characterized by significant litigation. this includes litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights, product liability claims and other types of litigation. litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. moreover, the results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may result in adverse rulings or decisions. we may enter into settlements or be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. we evaluate notices of alleged patent infringement and notices of patents from patent holders that we receive from time to time. if claims or actions are asserted against us, we may be required to obtain a license or cross-license, modify our existing technology or design a new non-infringing technology. such licenses or design modifications can be extremely costly. in addition, we may decide to settle a claim or action against us, which settlement could be costly. we may also be liable for any past infringement. if there is an adverse ruling against us in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued barring production or sale of any infringing product. it could also result in a damage award equal to a reasonable royalty or lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement, treble damages. any of these results would increase our costs and harm our operating results. 24 table of contents our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients of our business could be copied by competitors. our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary nature of our technology, including non-patentable intellectual property such as our process technology. if a competitor is able to reproduce or otherwise capitalize on our technology despite the safeguards we have in place, it may be difficult, expensive or impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. also, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do u.s. laws. in addition to patent protection of intellectual property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. we rely upon employee, consultant and vendor non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. however, any of our registered or unregistered intellectual property rights may be challenged or exploited by others in the industry, which might harm our operating results. the costs of compliance with state, federal and international legal and regulatory requirements, such as environmental, labor, trade and tax regulations, and customers standards of corporate citizenship could cause an increase in our operating costs. we may be or become subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing our environmental, labor, trade and tax practices. these laws and regulations, particularly those applicable to our international operations, are or may be complex, extensive and subject to change. we will need to ensure that we and our component suppliers timely comply with such laws and regulations, which may result in an increase in our operating costs. for example, the european union ( eu ) has enacted the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment ( rohs ) directive, which prohibits the use of certain substances in electronic equipment, and the waste electrical and electronic equipment ( weee ) directive, which obligates parties that place electrical and electronic equipment onto the market in the eu to put a clearly identifiable mark on the equipment, register with and report to eu member countries regarding distribution of the equipment, and provide a mechanism to take back and properly dispose of the equipment. similar legislation may be enacted in other locations where we manufacture or sell our products. in addition, climate change and financial reform legislation in the united states is a significant topic of discussion and has generated and may continue to generate federal or other regulatory responses in the near future. if we or our component suppliers fail to timely comply with applicable legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our products or we may face increased operating costs as a result of taxes, fines or penalties, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in connection with our compliance with such environmental laws and regulations, as well as our compliance with industry environmental initiatives, the standards of business conduct required by some of our customers, and our commitment to sound corporate citizenship in all aspects of our business, we could incur substantial compliance and operating costs and be subject to disruptions to our operations and logistics. in addition, if we were found to be in violation of these laws or noncompliant with these initiatives or standards of conduct, we could be subject to governmental fines, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation and corporate brand which could cause our financial condition or operating results to suffer. violation of applicable laws, including labor or environmental laws, and certain other practices by our suppliers could harm our business. we expect our suppliers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including labor and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required supplier standards of conduct. while our internal operating guidelines promote ethical business practices, we do not control our suppliers or their labor or environmental practices. the violation of labor, environmental or other laws by any of our suppliers, or divergence of a supplier business practices from those generally accepted as ethical in the united states, could harm our business by: interrupting or otherwise disrupting the shipment of our product components; damaging our reputation; forcing us to find alternate component sources; reducing demand for our products (for example, through a consumer boycott); or 25 table of contents exposing us to potential liability for our supplier wrongdoings. fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations may negatively affect our operating results. because we manufacture and sell our products abroad, our revenue, margins, operating costs and cash flows are impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. if the u.s. dollar exhibits sustained weakness against most foreign currencies, the u.s. dollar equivalents of unhedged manufacturing costs could increase because a significant portion of our production costs are foreign-currency denominated. conversely, there would not be an offsetting impact to revenues since revenues are substantially u.s. dollar denominated. additionally, we negotiate and procure some of our component requirements in u.s. dollars from japanese and other non-u.s. based vendors. if the u.s. dollar continues to weaken against other foreign currencies, some of our component suppliers may increase the price they charge for their components in order to maintain an equivalent profit margin. if this occurs, it would have a negative impact on our operating results. prices for our products are substantially u.s. dollar denominated, even when sold to customers that are located outside the united states. therefore, as a substantial portion of our sales are from countries outside the united states, fluctuations in currency exchanges rates, most notably the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against other foreign currencies, contribute to variations in sales of products in impacted jurisdictions and could adversely impact demand and revenue growth. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside the united states. we have attempted to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into short-term, foreign exchange contracts. however, these contracts do not cover our full exposure and can be canceled by the counterparty if currency controls are put in place. currently, we hedge the thai baht, malaysian ringgit, euro and british pound sterling with foreign exchange contracts. increases in our customers credit risk could result in credit losses and an increase in our operating costs. some of our oem customers have adopted a subcontractor model that requires us to contract directly with companies, such as odms, that provide manufacturing and fulfillment services to our oem customers. because these subcontractors are generally not as well capitalized as our direct oem customers, this subcontractor model exposes us to increased credit risks. our agreements with our oem customers may not permit us to increase our product prices to alleviate this increased credit risk. additionally, as we attempt to expand our oem and distribution channel sales into emerging economies such as brazil, russia, india and china, the customers with the most success in these regions may have relatively short operating histories, making it more difficult for us to accurately assess the associated credit risks. any credit losses we may suffer as a result of these increased risks, or as a result of credit losses from any significant customer, would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. our operating results fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from period to period due to many factors, which may result in a significant decline in our stock price. our quarterly operating results may be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a number of other factors including: the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major customers; our product mix; changes in the prices of our products; manufacturing delays or interruptions; acceptance by customers of competing products in lieu of our products; variations in the cost of and lead times for components for our products; limited availability of components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; seasonal and other fluctuations in demand for pcs often due to technological advances; and 26 table of contents availability and rates of transportation. we often ship a high percentage of our total quarterly sales in the third month of the quarter, which makes it difficult for us to forecast our financial results before the end of the quarter. as a result of the above or other factors, our forecast of operating results for the quarter may differ materially from our actual financial results. if our results of operations fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, it could cause an immediate and significant decline in our stock price. we have made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting, and actual results may differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions. we have made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting. the highly technical nature of our products and the rapidly changing market conditions with which we deal means that actual results may differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions. these changes have impacted our financial results in the past and may continue to do so in the future. key estimates and assumptions for us include: price protection adjustments and other sales promotions and allowances on products sold to retailers, resellers and distributors; inventory adjustments for write-down of inventories to lower of cost or market value (net realizable value); reserves for doubtful accounts; accruals for product returns; accruals for warranty costs related to product defects; accruals for litigation and other contingencies; liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits; and expensing of stock-based compensation. the market price of our common stock is volatile. the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, extremely volatile. factors that may significantly affect the market price of our common stock include the following: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, including those resulting from the seasonality of our business; announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors which may decrease the volume and profitability of sales of our existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence; new products introduced by us or our competitors; periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price erosion resulting from competitive pressures or industry consolidation; developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; conditions and trends in the hard drive, computer, data and content management, storage and communication industries; contraction in our operating results or growth rates that are lower than our previous high growth-rate periods; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts relating specifically to us or the hard drive industry in general; macroeconomic conditions that affect the market generally; and uncertainties regarding our planned acquisition of hgst. 27 table of contents in addition, general economic conditions may cause the stock market to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations from time to time that particularly affect the stock prices of many high technology companies. these fluctuations often appear to be unrelated to the operating performance of the companies. securities class action lawsuits are often brought against companies after periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. a number of such suits have been filed against us in the past, and should any new lawsuits be filed, such matters could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources and management attention. current economic conditions have caused us difficulty in adequately protecting our increased cash and cash equivalents from financial institution failures. the uncertain global economic conditions and volatile investment markets have caused us to hold more cash and cash equivalents than we would hold under normal circumstances. since there has been an overall increase in demand for low-risk, u.s. government-backed securities with a limited supply in the financial marketplace, we face increased difficulty in adequately protecting our increased cash and cash equivalents from possible sudden and unforeseeable failures by banks and other financial institutions. a failure of any of these financial institutions in which deposits exceed fdic limits could have an adverse impact on our financial position. if our internal controls are found to be ineffective, our financial results or our stock price may be adversely affected. our most recent evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of july 1, 2011, in compliance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, our internal control over financial reporting was effective. we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place for future periods; however, if our internal control over financial reporting is found to be ineffective or if we identify a material weakness in our financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which may adversely affect our financial results or our stock price. from time to time we may become subject to income tax audits or similar proceedings, and as a result we may incur additional costs and expenses or owe additional taxes, interest and penalties that may negatively impact our operating results. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and certain foreign jurisdictions, and our determination of our tax liability is subject to review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities. for example, as we have previously disclosed, we are under examination by the internal revenue service for certain fiscal years and in connection with that examination, we received revenue agent reports seeking certain adjustments to income as disclosed in part ii, item 8, note 9 in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. although we believe our tax positions are properly supported, the final timing and resolution of the notice of proposed adjustment and the audits are subject to significant uncertainty and could result in our having to pay amounts to the applicable tax authority in order to resolve examination of our tax positions, which could result in an increase or decrease of our current estimate of unrecognized tax benefits and may negatively impact our financial position, results of operations, net income or cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk disclosure about foreign currency risk although the majority of our transactions are in u.s. dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. we purchase short-term, foreign exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations on certain underlying assets, revenue, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. the purpose of entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. the contract maturity dates do not exceed 12 months. we do not purchase foreign exchange contracts for trading purposes. currently, we focus on hedging our foreign currency risk related to the thai baht, malaysian ringgit, euro and british pound sterling. thai baht contracts are designated as either cash flow or fair value hedges. malaysian ringgit contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. euro and british pound sterling contracts are designated as fair value hedges. see part ii, item 8, notes 1 and 11 in the notes to consolidated financial statements, included in this annual report on form 10-k. 42 table of contents as of july 1, 2011, we had outstanding the following purchased foreign exchange contracts (in millions, except weighted average contract rate): contract weighted average unrealized amount contract rate* gain (loss) foreign exchange contracts: thai baht cash flow hedges $ 1,013 30.70 $ (9 ) thai baht fair value hedges $ 103 30.70 malaysian ringgit cash flow hedges $ 331 3.09 4 euro fair value hedges $ 10 0.69 british pound sterling fair value hedges $ 4 0.62 * expressed in units of foreign currency per u.s. dollar. in 2011, 2010 and 2009, total net realized transaction and foreign exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to our consolidated financial statements. disclosure about other market risks variable interest rate risk borrowings under the term loan facility bear interest at a rate equal to, at the option of wdti, either (a) a libor rate determined by reference to the cost of funds for eurodollar deposits for the interest period relevant to such borrowing, adjusted for certain additional costs (the eurocurrency rate ) or (b) a base rate determined by reference to the higher of (i) the federal funds rate plus 0.50% and (ii) the prime rate as announced by jpmorgan chase bank, n.a. (the base rate ); in each case plus an applicable margin. the applicable margin for borrowings under the term loan facility ranges from 1.25% to 1.50% with respect to borrowings at the eurocurrency rate and 0.0% to 0.125% with respect to borrowings at the base rate. the applicable margins for borrowings under the term loan facility are determined based upon a leverage ratio of the company and its subsidiaries calculated on a consolidated basis. if the federal funds rate, prime rate or libor rate increase, our interest payments could also increase. a one percent increase in the variable rate of interest on the term loan facility would increase interest expense by approximately $3 million annually. 43 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk " --> item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk disclosure about foreign currency risk although the majority of the company transactions are in u.s. dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. the company purchases short-term, forward exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. the purpose of entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on the results of operations. the resulting impact from these hedge contracts is to offset a majority of the currency gains and losses in the company local currency operating expenses. the contract maturity dates do not exceed six months. the company does not purchase short-term forward exchange contracts for trading purposes. currently, the company focuses on hedging its foreign currency risk related to the thai baht, the british pound sterling, and the euro. as of july 2, 2004, the company had outstanding the following purchased foreign currency forward exchange contracts (in millions, except weighted average contract rate): july 2, 2004 contract weighted average unrealized amount contract rate* gain (loss) foreign currency forward contracts: thai baht $ 170.3 40.81 0.2 british pound sterling $ 2.0 0.55 euro $ 1.4 0.81 * expressed in units of foreign currency per dollar. in 2004, 2003 and 2002, total realized transaction and forward exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to the consolidated financial statements. 32 table of contents disclosure about other market risks variable interest rate risk at the option of the company, borrowings under the senior credit facility would bear interest at either libor (with option periods of one to three months) or a base rate, plus a margin. if libor or the base rate increases, the company interest payments could also increase. at july 2, 2004 the company had a $50 million term loan outstanding under the senior credit facility. a one percent increase in the variable rate of interest on the senior credit facility would increase interest expense by approximately $0.5 million annually. 33 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk disclosure about foreign currency risk although the majority of the company transactions are in u.s. dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. the company purchases short-term, forward exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. the purpose of entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on the results of operations. the resulting impact from these hedge contracts is to offset a majority of the currency gains and losses in the company local currency expenses. the contract maturity dates do not exceed six months. the company does not purchase short-term forward exchange contracts for trading purposes. currently, the company focuses on hedging its foreign currency risk related to the thai baht, the euro and the british pound sterling. thai baht contracts are designated as cash flow hedges under statement of financial accounting standards no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities. while all other contracts are designated as fair value hedges under statement of financial accounting standards no. 52 foreign currency translation. 36 as of july 1, 2005, the company had outstanding the following purchased foreign currency forward exchange contracts (in millions, except weighted average contract rate): contract weighted average unrealized amount contract rate* gain (loss) foreign currency forward contracts: thai baht $ 147.1 40.07 (0.3 ) euro $ 2.7 0.77 british pound sterling $ 1.6 0.54 $ 151.4 * expressed in units of foreign currency per dollar. in 2005, 2004 and 2003, total realized transaction and forward exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to the consolidated financial statements. disclosure about other market risks variable interest rate risk at the option of the company, borrowings under the senior credit facility would bear interest at either libor (with option periods of one to three months) or a base rate, plus a margin. if libor or the base rate increases, the company interest payments would also increase. at july 1, 2005, the company had a $38 million term loan outstanding under the senior credit facility. a one percent increase in the variable rate of interest on the senior credit facility would increase interest expense by approximately $0.4 million annually. 37quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk disclosure about foreign currency risk although the majority of the company transactions are in u.s. dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. from time to time, the company purchases short-term, forward exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses denominated in foreign currencies. the purpose for entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on the results of operations. to date, a majority of the increases or decreases in the company local currency operating expenses are offset by gains and losses on the hedges. the contracts have maturity dates that do not exceed twelve months. the company does not purchase short-term forward exchange contracts for trading purposes. historically, the company has focused on hedging its foreign currency risk related to the singapore dollar, the british pound and the malaysian ringgit. with the establishment of currency controls and the prohibition of purchases or sales of the malaysian ringgit by offshore companies, the company discontinued hedging its malaysian ringgit currency risk in 1999. future hedging of this currency will depend on currency conditions in malaysia. the imposition of exchange controls by the malaysian government resulted in a $7.5 million realized loss on terminated hedging contracts in the first quarter of 1999. as a result of the closure of the company singapore operations in 2000, the company has also discontinued its hedging program related to the singapore dollar. as of june 29, 2001, the company had outstanding the following purchased foreign currency forward exchange contracts (in millions, except average contract rate): june 29, 2001 contract weighted average unrealized amount contract rate gain (loss) (u.s. dollar equivalent amounts) foreign currency forward contracts: british pound sterling 2.8 1.42 in 1999, 2000, and 2001 total realized transaction and forward exchange contract currency gains and losses (excluding the $7.5 million realized loss on the malaysian ringgits realized in 1999), were not material to the consolidated financial statements. based on historical experience, the company does not expect that a significant change in foreign exchange rates would materially affect the company consolidated financial statements. disclosure about other market risks fixed interest rate risk at june 29, 2001, the market value of the company 5.25% zero coupon convertible subordinated debentures due in 2018 was approximately $85.1 million, compared to the related book value of $112.5 million. the convertible debentures will be repurchased by the company, at the option of the holder, as of february 18, 2003, february 18, 2008, or february 18, 2013, or if there is a fundamental change (as defined in the debenture documents), at the issue price plus accrued original issue discount to the date of redemption. the payment on those dates, with the exception of a fundamental change, can be in cash, stock or any combination, at the company option. the company has a note receivable from another company that carries a fixed rate of interest. therefore, a significant change in interest rates would not cause these notes to impact the company consolidated financial statements. variable interest rate risk at the option of wdt, borrowings under the senior credit facility would bear interest at either libor (with option periods of one to three months) or a base rate, plus a margin determined by the borrowing base. this is the only debt which does not have a fixed-rate of interest. 29 table of contents the senior credit facility requires wdt to maintain certain amounts of tangible net worth, prohibits the payment of cash dividends on common stock and contains a number of other covenants. as of the date hereof, there were no borrowings under the senior credit facility. fair value risk the company owns approximately 1.2 million shares of vixel common stock. as of june 29, 2001, the market value of the vixel shares was $3.1 million. the company determines, on a quarterly basis, the fair market value of the vixel shares and records an unrealized gain or loss resulting from the difference in the fair market value of the shares as of the previous quarter end and the fair market value of the shares on the measurement date. as of june 29, 2001, a $3.1 million total accumulated unrealized gain has been recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). if the company sells all or a portion of this common stock, any unrealized gain or loss on the date of sale will be recorded as a realized gain or loss in the company results of operations. as a result of market conditions, the market value of the shares had declined from $3.1 million as of june 29, 2001 to $2.4 million as of august 17, 2001. due to market fluctuations, an additional decline in the stock fair market value could occur. 30 table of contentsrisk factors 15 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk disclosure about foreign currency risk although the majority of our transactions are in u.s. dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. we purchase short-term, foreign exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations on certain underlying assets, revenue, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. the purpose of entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. the contract maturity dates do not exceed 12 months. we do not purchase foreign exchange contracts for trading purposes. currently, we focus on hedging our foreign currency risk related to the british pound sterling, euro, japanese yen, malaysian ringgit, philippine peso, singapore dollar and thai baht. singapore dollar and thai baht contracts are designated as either cash flow or fair value hedges. malaysian ringgit contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. british pound sterling, euro, japanese yen and philippine peso contracts are designated as fair value hedges. see part ii, item 8, notes 1 and 11 in the notes to consolidated financial statements, included in this annual report on form 10-k. as of june 29, 2012, we had outstanding the following purchased foreign exchange contracts (in millions, except weighted average contract rate): contract amount weighted average contract rate* unrealized loss foreign exchange contracts: cash flow hedges: malaysian ringgit $ 323 3.13 $ 5 singapore dollar $ 21 1.26 thai baht $ 896 31.52 $ 11 fair value hedges: british pound sterling $ 2 0.64 euro $ 15 0.79 japanese yen $ 70 81.32 philippine peso $ 4 42.87 singapore dollar $ 3 1.26 thai baht $ 292 31.45 * expressed in units of foreign currency per u.s. dollar. in 2012, 2011 and 2010, total net realized transaction and foreign exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to our consolidated financial statements. disclosure about other market risks variable interest rate risk borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at a rate equal to, at the option of the applicable borrower, either (a) a libor rate determined by reference to the british bankers association libor rate for the interest period relevant to such borrowing, subject to certain exceptions (the eurodollar rate ) or (b) a base rate determined by reference to the higher of (i) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (ii) the prime rate as announced by bank of america, n.a. and (iii) the eurodollar rate plus 1.00% (the base rate ), in each case plus an applicable margin. the applicable margin for borrowings under the credit facility ranges from 1.50% to 2.50% with respect to borrowings at the eurodollar rate and 0.50% to 1.50% with respect to borrowings at the base rate. the applicable margins for borrowings under the credit facility are determined based upon a leverage ratio of the company and its subsidiaries calculated on a consolidated basis. if the federal funds rate, prime rate or libor rate increase, our interest payments could also increase. a one percent increase in the variable rate of interest on the term loan facility would increase interest expense by approximately $22 million annually. 48 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors if we fail to realize the anticipated benefits from our acquisition of hgst on a timely basis, or at all, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. in connection with obtaining the regulatory approvals required to complete the acquisition of hgst, we agreed to certain conditions required by the ministry of commerce of the people republic of china ( mofcom ), including adopting measures to keep hgst as an independent competitor until mofcom agrees otherwise (with the minimum period being two years from the march 8, 2012 closing date of the acquisition). we worked closely with mofcom to finalize an operations plan that outlines in more detail the conditions of the competitive requirement. compliance with these measures has affected, and may continue to affect, our business and financial conditions in the following ways: limits our ability to integrate hgst business with our business (and we do not expect to achieve significant operating expense synergies while the conditions remain in place), has caused, and could cause further, difficulties in retaining key employees and delays or uncertainties in making decisions about the combined business, has resulted in, and could result in additional, significant costs (including capital expenditures relative to our competitors as a result of maintaining separate research and development functions), and has required, and could require additional, changes in business practices. we cannot predict when the conditions imposed by mofcom will be removed. in addition, in the event we fail to comply with these measures, the time during which we are required to comply with the conditions could be extended and we could be subject to other conditions or penalties that could adversely affect the business. 14 table of contents the financing of the hgst acquisition may have an adverse impact on our liquidity, limit our flexibility in responding to other business opportunities and increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions . our acquisition of hgst was financed by a combination of the issuance of additional shares of our common stock, the use of a significant amount of our cash on hand and the incurrence of a significant amount of indebtedness. the use of cash on hand and indebtedness to finance the acquisition reduced our liquidity and could cause us to place more reliance on cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for operations and development activities. the credit agreement we entered into with respect to the indebtedness we incurred to finance the acquisition contains restrictive covenants, including financial covenants requiring us to maintain specified financial ratios. our ability to meet these restrictive covenants can be affected by events beyond our control. the indebtedness and these restrictive covenants will also have the effect, among other things, of impairing our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, limiting our flexibility in the conduct of our business and making us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions. in addition, a breach of the restrictive covenants could result in an event of default under the credit agreement, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. in connection with obtaining the regulatory approvals required to complete our acquisition of hgst, we divested certain assets to toshiba and agreed to provide certain support services for those assets for a period of time, and our business will be adversely affected in the event we fail to successfully meet our obligations to toshiba under the divestiture transaction. in connection with obtaining the regulatory approvals required to complete our acquisition of hgst, we agreed, subject to review by regulatory agencies in certain jurisdictions, to divest certain assets to toshiba that will expand toshiba capacity to manufacture 3.5-inch hard drives for the desktop, consumer electronics and near-line (business critical) applications. while this divestiture transaction closed in may 2012, we agreed to provide certain support service for those assets for a period of time. if we are not able to meet our continuing service obligations under our agreement with toshiba, the jurisdictions that conditioned their approval of the hgst acquisition on the divestiture could impose certain obligations on us, including a requirement that we divest the assets subject to the toshiba divestiture (or other assets) to another purchaser, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. adverse global economic conditions and credit market uncertainty could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. adverse global economic conditions and uncertain conditions in the credit market have had, and in the future could have, a significant adverse effect on our company and on the storage industry as a whole. some of the risks and uncertainties we face as a result of these global economic and credit market conditions include the following: volatile demand. negative or uncertain global economic conditions could cause many of our direct and indirect customers to delay or reduce their purchases of our products and systems containing our products. in addition, many of our customers rely on credit financing to purchase our products. if negative conditions in the global credit markets prevent our customers access to credit, product orders may decrease, which could result in lower revenue. likewise, if our suppliers, sub-suppliers and sub-contractors (collectively referred to as suppliers ) face challenges in obtaining credit, in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may be unable to offer the materials we use to manufacture our products. these actions could result in reductions in our revenue and increased operating costs, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. restructuring activities. if demand for our products slows as a result of deterioration in economic conditions, we may undertake restructuring activities to realign our cost structure with softening demand. the occurrence of restructuring activities could result in impairment charges and other expenses, which could adversely impact our results of operations or financial condition. credit volatility and loss of receivables. we extend credit and payment terms to some of our customers. in addition to ongoing credit evaluations of our customers financial condition, we traditionally seek to mitigate our credit risk by purchasing credit insurance on certain of our accounts receivable balances. as a result of the continued uncertainty and volatility in global economic conditions, however, we may find it increasingly difficult to be able to insure these accounts receivable. we could suffer significant losses if a customer whose accounts receivable we have not insured, or have underinsured, fails and is unable to pay us. additionally, negative or uncertain global economic conditions increase the risk that if a customer whose accounts receivable we have insured fails, the financial condition of the insurance carrier for such customer account may have also deteriorated such that it cannot cover our loss. a significant loss of an accounts receivable that we cannot recover through credit insurance would have a negative impact on our financial results. 15 table of contents impairment charges. negative or uncertain global economic conditions could result in circumstances, such as a sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization or a decrease in our forecasted cash flows such that they are insufficient, indicating that the carrying value of our long-lived assets or goodwill may be impaired. if we are required to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements because an impairment of our long-lived assets or goodwill is determined, our results of operations will be adversely affected. we participate in a highly competitive industry that is subject to the risk of declining average selling prices ( asps ), volatile gross margins and significant shifts in market share, all of which could adversely affect our operating results. demand for our hard drives depends in large part on the demand for systems manufactured by our customers and on storage upgrades to existing systems. the demand for systems has been volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect on the demand for hard drives in any given period. as a result, the hard drive market has experienced periods of excess capacity, which can lead to liquidation of excess inventories and more intense price competition. if more intense price competition occurs, we may be forced to lower prices sooner and more than expected, which could adversely impact revenue and gross margins. our asps and gross margins also tend to decline when there is a shift in the mix of product sales, and sales of lower priced products increase relative to those of higher priced products. in addition, rapid technological changes often reduce the volume and profitability of sales of existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence. these factors, along with others, may result in significant shifts in market share among the industry major participants, including a substantial decrease in our market share. our failure to accurately forecast market and customer demand for our products, or to quickly adjust to forecast changes, could adversely affect our business and financial results or operating efficiencies. the data storage industry faces difficulties in accurately forecasting market and customer demand for its products. the variety and volume of products we manufacture is based in part on these forecasts. accurately forecasting demand has become increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers in light of the volatility in global economic conditions and industry consolidation, resulting in less availability of historical market data for certain product segments. in addition, because hard drives are designed to be largely interchangeable with competitors products, our demand forecasts may be impacted significantly by the strategic actions of our competitors. as forecasting demand becomes more difficult, the risk that our forecasts are not in line with demand increases. if our forecasts exceed actual market demand, then we could experience periods of product oversupply and price decreases, which could impact our financial performance. if market demand increases significantly beyond our forecasts or beyond our ability to add manufacturing capacity, then we may not be able to satisfy customer product needs, possibly resulting in a loss of market share if our competitors are able to meet customer demands. we experience significant sales seasonality and cyclicality, which could cause our operating results to fluctuate. sales of computer systems, storage subsystems and consumer electronics tend to be seasonal and cyclical, and therefore we expect to continue to experience seasonality and cyclicality in our business as we respond to variations in our customers demand for hard drives. however, changes in seasonal and cyclical patterns have made it, and could continue to make it, more difficult for us to forecast demand, especially as a result of the current macroeconomic environment. changes in the product or channel mix of our business can also impact seasonal and cyclical patterns, adding complexity in forecasting demand. seasonality and cyclicality also may lead to higher volatility in our stock price. it is difficult for us to evaluate the degree to which seasonality and cyclicality may affect our stock price or business in future periods because of the rate and unpredictability of product transitions and new product introductions and macroeconomic conditions. 16 table of contents our sales to the non-compute and enterprise markets (collectively, the non-pc markets ), representing an increasing percentage of our overall revenue, may not continue to grow at current estimates, which could materially adversely impact our operating results. the secular growth of digital data is resulting in a more diversified mix of revenue. for example, for the year ended june 28, 2013, approximately 50% of our net revenue was derived from the non-pc markets. as sales to the non-pc markets become a more significant portion of our revenue, events or circumstances that adversely impact demand in these markets, or our ability to address that demand successfully, could materially adversely impact our operating results. for example, demand in, or our sales to, the non-pc markets may be adversely affected by the following: mobile devices. there has been and continues to be a rapid growth in devices that do not contain a hard drive such as tablet computers and smart phones. as tablet computers and smart phones provide many of the same capabilities as pcs, they have displaced or materially affected, and may continue to displace or materially affect, the demand for pcs. if we are not successful in adapting our product offerings to include disk drives or alternative storage solutions that address these devices, demand for our products in the non-pc markets may decrease and our financial results could be materially adversely affected. cloud computing. consumers traditionally have stored their data on their pc, often supplemented with personal external storage devices. most businesses also include similar local storage as a primary or secondary storage location. this storage is typically provided by hard disk drives. over the last few years, cloud computing has emerged whereby applications and data are hosted, accessed and processed through a third-party provider over a broadband internet connection, potentially reducing or eliminating the need for, among other things, significant storage inside the accessing computer. if we are not successful in manufacturing compelling products to address the cloud computing opportunity, demand for our products in the non-pc markets may decrease and our financial results could be materially adversely affected. obsolete inventory. in some cases, products we manufacture for the non-pc markets are uniquely configured for a single customer application, creating a risk of obsolete inventory if anticipated demand is not actually realized. macroeconomic conditions. consumer spending in the non-pc markets has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected in many regions due to negative macroeconomic conditions and high unemployment levels. please see the risk factor entitled adverse global economic conditions and credit market uncertainty could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. for more risks and uncertainties relating to macroeconomic conditions. in addition, demand in the non-pc markets also could be negatively impacted by developments in the regulation and enforcement of digital rights management, the emergence of processes such as data deduplication and storage virtualization, and the rate of increase in areal density exceeding the increase in our customers demand for storage. these factors could lead to our customers storage needs being satisfied at lower prices with lower capacity hard drives or solid-state storage products that we do not offer, thereby decreasing our revenue or putting us at a disadvantage to competing storage technologies. as a result, even with increasing aggregate demand for digital storage, if we fail to anticipate or timely respond to these developments in the demand for storage, our asps could decline, which could adversely affect our operating results. sales in the client compute market (the pc market ) are important to our business, and if we fail to respond to changes in the pc market, our operating results could suffer. while sales to the non-pc market are becoming a more significant source of revenue, sales to the pc market remain an important part of our business. the pc market, however, has been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by the growth of tablet computers, smart phones and similar devices that perform many of the same capabilities as pcs, the lengthening of product life cycles and macroeconomic conditions. if demand in the pc market is worse than expected as a result of these or other conditions, demand for our products in the pc market may decrease and our operating results may be adversely affected. 17 table of contents selling to the retail market is an important part of our business, and if we fail to maintain and grow our market share or gain market acceptance of our branded products, our operating results could suffer. selling branded products is an important part of our business, and as our branded products revenue increases as a portion of our overall revenue, our success in the retail market becomes increasingly important to our operating results. our success in the retail market depends in large part on our ability to maintain our brand image and corporate reputation and to expand into and gain market acceptance of our products in multiple channels, including the e-tail channel. adverse publicity, whether or not justified, or allegations of product or service quality issues, even if false or unfounded, could tarnish our reputation and cause our customers to choose products offered by our competitors. in addition, the proliferation of new methods of mass communication facilitated by the internet makes it easier for false or unfounded allegations to adversely affect our brand image and reputation. if customers no longer maintain a preference for wd &reg; , hgst or g-technology brand products, our operating results may be adversely affected. sales in the distribution channel are important to our business, and if we fail to respond to demand changes in distribution markets or if distribution markets for hard drives weaken, our operating results could suffer. our distribution customers typically sell to small computer manufacturers, dealers, systems integrators and other resellers. we face significant competition in this channel as a result of limited product qualification programs and a significant focus on price and availability of product. in addition, the pc market is experiencing a shift to notebook and other mobile devices and, as a result, more computing devices are being delivered to the market as complete systems, which could weaken the distribution market. if we fail to respond to changes in demand in the distribution market, our operating results could suffer. additionally, if the distribution market weakens as a result of a slowing pc growth rate, technology transitions or a significant change in consumer buying preference, or if we experience significant price declines due to demand changes in the distribution channel, then our operating results would be adversely affected. loss of market share with or by a key customer, or consolidation among our customer base, could harm our operating results. during the year ended june 28, 2013, 44% of our revenue came from sales to our top 10 customers. these customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial demands on us, including demands on product pricing and on contractual terms, often resulting in the allocation of risk to us as the supplier. our ability to maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is essential to our future performance. if we lose a key customer, if any of our key customers reduce their orders of our products or require us to reduce our prices before we are able to reduce costs, if a customer is acquired by one of our competitors or if a key customer suffers financial hardship, our operating results would likely be harmed. additionally, if there is consolidation among our customer base, our customers may be able to command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. in addition, if, as a result of increased leverage, customer pressures require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, we could decide not to sell our products to a particular customer, which could result in a decrease in our revenue. consolidation among our customer base may also lead to reduced demand for our products, replacement of our products by the combined entity with those of our competitors and cancellations of orders, each of which could harm our operating results. our entry into additional markets increases the complexity of our business, and if we are unable to successfully adapt our business processes and product offerings as required by these new markets, we will be at a competitive disadvantage and our ability to grow will be adversely affected. as we expand our product line to sell into additional markets, the overall complexity of our business increases at an accelerated rate and we become subject to different market dynamics. the new markets into which we are expanding, or may expand, may have different characteristics from the markets we currently serve. these different characteristics may include, among other things, demand volume requirements, demand seasonality, product generation development rates, customer concentrations, warranty and product return policies and performance and compatibility requirements. our failure to make the necessary adaptations to our business model and product offerings to address these different characteristics, complexities and new market dynamics could adversely affect our operating results. 18 table of contents expansion into new markets may cause our capital expenditures to increase, and if we do not successfully expand into new markets, our business may suffer. to remain a significant supplier in the storage industry, we will need to offer a broad range of storage products to our customers. we currently offer a variety of 3.5-inch or 2.5-inch hard drives for the pc and non-pc storage markets, as well as a variety of solid state drives. however, demand for storage devices may shift to products in form factors or with interfaces that our competitors offer but which we do not. expansion into other markets and resulting increases in manufacturing capacity requirements may require us to make substantial additional investments in part because our operations are largely vertically integrated. if we fail to successfully expand into new markets with products that we do not currently offer, we may lose business to our competitors who offer these products. our vertical integration of head and magnetic media manufacturing makes us dependent on our ability to timely and cost-effectively develop heads and magnetic media with leading technology and overall quality, increasing capital expenditure costs and asset utilization risks for our business. under our business plan, we are developing and manufacturing a substantial portion of the heads and magnetic media used in the hard drive products we manufacture. consequently, we are more dependent upon our own development and execution efforts and less able to take advantage of head and magnetic media technologies developed by other manufacturers. technology transition for head and magnetic media designs is critical to increasing our volume production of heads and magnetic media. there can be no assurance, however, that we will be successful in timely and cost-effectively developing and manufacturing heads or magnetic media for products using future technologies. we also may not effectively transition our head or magnetic media design and technology to achieve acceptable manufacturing yields using the technologies necessary to satisfy our customers product needs, or we may encounter quality problems with the heads or magnetic media we manufacture. if we are unable to timely and cost-effectively develop heads and magnetic media with leading technology and overall quality, our ability to sell our products may be significantly diminished, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. in addition, as a result of our vertical integration of head and magnetic media manufacturing, we make more capital investments and carry a higher percentage of fixed costs than we would if we were not vertically integrated. if our overall level of production decreases for any reason, and we are unable to reduce our fixed costs to match sales, our head or magnetic media manufacturing assets may face underutilization that may impact our operating results. we are therefore subject to additional risks related to overall asset utilization, including the need to operate at high levels of utilization to drive competitive costs and the need for assured supply of components that we do not manufacture ourselves. in addition, as a result of adverse labor rates or availability, we may be required to increase investments in automation, which may cause our capital expenditures to increase. if we do not adequately address the challenges related to our head or magnetic media manufacturing operations, our ongoing operations could be disrupted, resulting in a decrease in our revenue or profit margins and negatively impacting our operating results. we make significant investments in research and development to improve our technology and develop new technologies, and unsuccessful investments could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. over the past several years, our business strategy has been to derive a competitive advantage by moving from being a follower of new technologies to being a leader in the innovation and development of new technologies. this strategy requires us to make significant investments in research and development and, in attempting to remain competitive, we may increase our capital expenditures and expenses above our historical run-rate model. there can be no assurance that these investments will result in viable technologies or products, or if these investments do result in viable technologies or products, that they will be profitable or accepted by the market. significant investments in unsuccessful research and development efforts could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, increased investments in technology could cause our cost structure to fall out of alignment with demand for our products, which would have a negative impact on our financial results. current or future competitors may gain a technology advantage or develop an advantageous cost structure that we cannot match. it may be possible for our current or future competitors to gain an advantage in product technology, manufacturing technology, or process technology, which may allow them to offer products or services that have a significant advantage over the products and services that we offer. advantages could be in capacity, performance, reliability, serviceability, or other attributes. a competitive cost structure for our products, including critical components, labor and overhead, is also critical to the success of our business. we may be at a competitive disadvantage to any companies that are able to gain a technological or cost structure advantage. 19 table of contents industry consolidation could provide competitive advantages to our competitors. the storage industry has experienced consolidation over the past several years. consolidation by our competitors may enhance their capacity, abilities and resources and lower their cost structure, causing us to be at a competitive disadvantage. some of our competitors with diversified business units outside of storage products may over extended periods of time sell storage products at prices that we cannot profitably match. some of our competitors earn a significant portion of their revenue from business units outside of storage products. because they do not depend solely on sales of storage products to achieve profitability, they may sell storage products at lower prices and operate their storage business unit at a loss over an extended period of time while still remaining profitable overall. in addition, if these competitors can increase sales of non-storage products to the same customers, they may benefit from selling their storage products at lower prices. our operating results may be adversely affected if we cannot successfully compete with the pricing by these companies. if we fail to qualify our products with our customers, it may have a significant adverse impact on our sales and margins. we regularly engage in new product qualification with our customers. once a product is accepted for qualification testing, failures or delays in the qualification process can result in delayed or reduced product sales, reduced product margins caused by having to continue to offer a more costly current generation product, or lost sales to that customer until the next generation of products is introduced. the effect of missing a product qualification opportunity is magnified by the limited number of high volume oems, which continue to consolidate their share of the storage markets. likewise, if product life cycles lengthen, we may have a significantly longer period to wait before we have an opportunity to qualify a new product with a customer, which could reduce our profits because we expect declining gross margins on our current generation products as a result of competitive pressures. we are subject to risks related to product defects, which could result in product recalls or epidemic failures and could subject us to warranty claims in excess of our warranty provisions or which are greater than anticipated. we warrant the majority of our products for periods of one to five years. we test our hard drives in our manufacturing facilities through a variety of means. however, there can be no assurance that our testing will reveal defects in our products, which may not become apparent until after the products have been sold into the market. accordingly, there is a risk that product defects will occur, which could require a product recall. product recalls can be expensive to implement and, if a product recall occurs during the product warranty period, we may be required to replace the defective product. moreover, there is a risk that product defects may trigger an epidemic failure clause in a customer agreement. if an epidemic failure occurs, we may be required to replace or refund the value of the defective product and to cover certain other costs associated with the consequences of the epidemic failure. in addition, a product recall or epidemic failure may damage our reputation or customer relationships, and may cause us to lose market share with our customers, including our oem and odm customers. our standard warranties contain limits on damages and exclusions of liability for consequential damages and for misuse, improper installation, alteration, accident or mishandling while in the possession of someone other than us. we record an accrual for estimated warranty costs at the time revenue is recognized. we may incur additional operating expenses if our warranty provision does not reflect the actual cost of resolving issues related to defects in our products, whether as a result of a product recall, epidemic failure or otherwise. if these additional expenses are significant, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 20 table of contents dependence on a limited number of qualified suppliers of components and manufacturing equipment could lead to delays, lost revenue or increased costs. our future operating results may depend substantially on our suppliers ability to timely qualify their components in our programs, and their ability to supply us with these components in sufficient volumes to meet our production requirements. a number of the components that we use are available from only a single or limited number of qualified suppliers, and may be used across multiple product lines. as such, the success of our products depends on our ability to gain access to and integrate parts from reliable component suppliers. to do so, we must maintain effective relationships with our supply base to source our component needs, develop compatible technology, and maintain continuity of supply at reasonable costs. if we fail to maintain effective relationships with our supply base, or if we fail to integrate components from our suppliers effectively, this may adversely affect our ability to develop and deliver the best products to our customers and our profitability could suffer. certain equipment and consumables we use in our manufacturing or testing processes are available only from a limited number of suppliers. some of this equipment and consumables use materials that at times could be in short supply. if these materials are not available, or are not available in the quantities we require for our manufacturing and testing processes, our ability to manufacture our products could be impacted, and we could suffer significant loss of revenue. each of the following could also significantly harm our operating results: an unwillingness of a supplier to supply such components or equipment to us; consolidation of key suppliers; failure of a key supplier business process; a key supplier or sub-supplier inability to access credit necessary to operate its business; or failure of a key supplier to remain in business, to remain an independent merchant supplier, or to adjust to market conditions. failure by certain suppliers to effectively and efficiently develop and manufacture components, technology or production equipment for our products may adversely affect our operations. we rely on suppliers for various component parts that we integrate into our hard drives but do not manufacture ourselves, such as semiconductors, motors, flex circuits and suspensions. likewise, we rely on suppliers for certain technology and equipment necessary for advanced development technology for future products. some of these components, and most of this technology and production equipment, must be specifically designed to be compatible for use in our products or for developing and manufacturing our future products, and are only available from a limited number of suppliers, some of whom are our sole-source suppliers. we are therefore dependent on these suppliers to be able and willing to dedicate adequate engineering resources to develop components that can be successfully integrated into our products, and technology and production equipment that can be used to develop and manufacture our next-generation products efficiently. as consolidation in the hard drive supply chain increases, these suppliers may reevaluate their business models. the failure of these suppliers to effectively and efficiently develop and manufacture components, technology and production equipment for our products, or a decision by these suppliers to exit this industry, may cause us to be unable to, or experience a delay in our ability to, manufacture and ship hard drive products, expand into new technology and markets, or compete with alternative storage technologies, therefore adversely affecting our business and financial results. in addition, these suppliers may seek to impose volume guarantees on us or to shift the burden of certain fixed costs to us in order to continue developing and manufacturing components, technology or production equipment for our products, each of which may adversely affect our business and financial results. 21 table of contents price volatility, shortages of commodity materials or commodity components, or use by other industries of materials and components used in the storage industry, may negatively impact our operating results. increases in the cost for certain commodity materials, commodity components and oil may increase our costs of manufacturing and transporting hard drives and key components and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to pass these increased costs on to our customers. shortages of commodity components such as dram and nand flash, or commodity materials such as glass substrates, stainless steel, aluminum, nickel, neodymium, ruthenium, platinum or cerium, may increase our costs and may result in lower operating margins if we are unable to find ways to mitigate these increased costs. we or our suppliers acquire certain precious metals and rare earth metals like ruthenium, platinum, neodymium and cerium, which are critical to the manufacture of components in our products from a number of countries, including the people republic of china. the government of china or any other nation may impose regulations, quotas or embargoes upon these metals that would restrict the worldwide supply of such metals or increase their cost, both of which could negatively impact our operating results until alternative suppliers are sourced. furthermore, if other high volume industries increase their demand for materials or components used in our products, our costs may further increase, which could have an adverse effect on our operating margins. in addition, shortages in other commodity components and materials used in our customers products could result in a decrease in demand for our products, which would negatively impact our operating results. contractual commitments with component suppliers may result in us paying increased charges and cash advances for such components or may cause us to have inadequate or excess component inventory. to reduce the risk of component shortages, we attempt to provide significant lead times when buying components, which may subject us to cancellation charges if we cancel orders as a result of technology transitions or changes in our component needs. in addition, we may from time to time enter into contractual commitments with component suppliers in an effort to increase and stabilize the supply of those components and enable us to purchase such components at favorable prices. some of these commitments may require us to buy a substantial number of components from the supplier or make significant cash advances to the supplier; however, these commitments may not result in a satisfactory increase or stabilization of the supply of such components. furthermore, as a result of uncertain global economic conditions, our ability to forecast our requirements for these components has become increasingly difficult, therefore increasing the risk that our contractual commitments may not meet our actual supply requirements, which could cause us to have inadequate or excess component inventory and adversely affect our operating results and increase our operating costs. changes in product life cycles could adversely affect our financial results. if product life cycles lengthen, we may need to develop new technologies or programs to reduce our costs on any particular product to maintain competitive pricing for that product. if product life cycles shorten, it may result in an increase in our overall expenses and a decrease in our gross margins, both of which could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, shortening of product life cycles also makes it more difficult to recover the cost of product development before the product becomes obsolete. our failure to recover the cost of product development in the future could adversely affect our operating results. a fundamental change in recording technology could result in significant increases in our costs and could put us at a competitive disadvantage. historically, when the industry experiences a fundamental change in technology, any manufacturer that fails to successfully and timely adjust its designs and processes to accommodate the new technology fails to remain competitive. there are some revolutionary technologies, such as current-perpendicular-to-plane giant magnetoresistance, shingle magnetic recording, energy assisted magnetic recording, patterned magnetic media and advanced signal processing, that if implemented by a competitor on a commercially viable basis ahead of the industry, could put us at a competitive disadvantage. as a result of these technology shifts, we could incur substantial costs in developing new technologies, such as heads, magnetic media, and tools to remain competitive. if we fail to successfully implement these new technologies, or if we are significantly slower than our competitors at implementing new technologies, we may not be able to offer products with capacities that our customers desire, which could harm our operating results. the difficulty of introducing hard drives with higher levels of areal density and the challenges of reducing other costs may impact our ability to achieve historical levels of cost reduction. storage capacity of the hard drive, as manufactured by us, is determined by the number of disks and each disk areal density. areal density is a measure of the amount of magnetic bits that can be stored on the recording surface of the disk. generally, the higher the areal density, the more information can be stored on a single platter. higher areal densities require existing head and magnetic media technology to be improved or new technologies developed to accommodate more data on a single disk. historically, we have been able to achieve a large percentage of cost reduction through increases in areal density. increases in areal density mean that the average drive we sell has fewer heads and disks for the same capacity and, therefore, may result in a lower component cost. however, increasing areal density has become more difficult in the storage industry. if we are not able to increase areal density at the same rate as our competitors or at a rate that is expected by our customers, we may be required to include more components in our drives to meet demand without corresponding incremental revenue, which could negatively impact our operating margins and make achieving historical levels of cost reduction difficult or unlikely. additionally, increases in areal density may require us to make further capital expenditures on items such as new testing equipment needed as a result of an increased number of gigabytes per platter. our inability to achieve cost reductions could adversely affect our operating results. 22 table of contents if we do not properly manage technology transitions, our competitiveness and operating results may be negatively affected. the storage markets in which we offer our products continuously undergo technology transitions which we must anticipate and adapt our products to address in a timely manner. if we fail to implement these new technologies successfully, or if we are slower than our competitors at implementing new technologies, we may not be able to competitively offer products that our customers desire, which could harm our operating results. if we do not properly manage new product development, our competitiveness and operating results may be negatively affected. as advances in computer hardware and software are made, our customers have demanded a more diversified portfolio of disk drive products with new and additional features. in some cases, this demand results in investments in new products for a particular market that do not necessarily expand overall market opportunity, which may negatively affect our operating results. in addition, the success of our new product introductions depends on a number of other factors, including difficulties faced in manufacturing ramp; implementing at an acceptable cost product features expected by our customers; market acceptance/qualification; effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand; and quality problems or other defects in the early stages of new product introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products. our business may suffer if we fail to successfully anticipate and manage issues associated with our product development. if we fail to develop and introduce new products that are competitive against alternative storage technologies, our business may suffer. our success depends in part on our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner in order to keep pace with competing technologies. alternative storage technologies like solid-state storage technology have successfully served digital entertainment markets for products such as digital cameras, mp3 players, usb flash drives, mobile phones and tablet devices that cannot be economically serviced using hard drive technology. advances in semiconductor technology have resulted in solid-state storage emerging as a technology that is competitive with hard drives for high performance needs in advanced digital computing markets such as enterprise servers and storage. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in anticipating and developing new products for the pc and non-pc storage markets in response to solid-state storage, as well as other competing technologies. if our hard drive technology fails to offer higher capacity, performance and reliability with lower cost-per-gigabyte than solid-state storage, we will be at a competitive disadvantage to companies using semiconductor technology and our business will suffer. 23 table of contents our manufacturing operations, and those of certain of our suppliers and customers, are concentrated in large, purpose-built facilities, subjecting us to substantial risk of damage or loss if operations at any of these facilities are disrupted. as a result of our cost structure and strategy of vertical integration, we conduct our manufacturing operations at large, high volume, purpose-built facilities in california and in asia. the manufacturing facilities of many of our customers, our suppliers and our customers suppliers are also concentrated in certain geographic locations in asia and elsewhere. a localized health risk affecting our employees at these facilities or the staff of our or our customers other suppliers, such as the spread of a pandemic influenza, could impair the total volume of hard drives that we are able to manufacture or sell, which would result in substantial harm to our operating results. similarly, a fire, flood, earthquake, tsunami or other disaster, condition or event such as political instability, civil unrest or a power outage that adversely affects any of these facilities, including access to or from these facilities by employees or logistics operations, would significantly affect our ability to manufacture or sell hard drives, which would result in a substantial loss of sales and revenue and a substantial harm to our operating results. for example, prior to the 2011 flooding in thailand, all of our internal slider capacity and 60% of our hard drive manufacturing capacity was in thailand. as a result of the flooding in thailand, our facilities were inundated and temporarily shut down. during that period, our ability to manufacture hard drives was significantly constrained, adversely affecting our business, financial condition and results of operations. a significant event that impacts any of our manufacturing sites, or the sites of our customers or suppliers, could adversely affect our ability to manufacture hard drives, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. manufacturing and marketing our products globally subjects us to numerous risks. we are subject to risks associated with our global manufacturing operations and global marketing efforts, including: obtaining requisite governmental permits and approvals; currency exchange rate fluctuations or restrictions; political instability and civil unrest; limited transportation availability, delays, and extended time required for shipping, which risks may be compounded in periods of price declines; higher freight rates; labor challenges, including difficulties finding and retaining talent or responding to labor disputes or disruptions; trade restrictions or higher tariffs; copyright levies or similar fees or taxes imposed in european and other countries; exchange, currency and tax controls and reallocations; increasing labor and overhead costs; and loss or non-renewal of favorable tax treatment under agreements or treaties with foreign tax authorities. 24 table of contents terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business and operating results. the continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility have created uncertainty in the financial and insurance markets and have significantly increased the political, economic and social instability in some of the geographic areas in which we operate. additionally, it is uncertain what impact the reactions to such acts by various governmental agencies and security regulators worldwide will have on shipping costs. acts of terrorism, either domestically or abroad, could create further uncertainties and instability. to the extent this results in disruption or delays of our manufacturing capabilities or shipments of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. sudden disruptions to the availability of freight lanes could have an impact on our operations. we generally ship our products to our customers, and receive shipments from our suppliers, via air, ocean or land freight. the sudden unavailability or disruption of cargo operations or freight lanes caused by, among other things, labor difficulties or disputes, severe weather patterns or other natural disasters, or political instability or civil unrest, could impact our operating results by impairing our ability to timely and efficiently deliver our products. we are vulnerable to system failures or attacks, which could harm our business. we are heavily dependent on our technology infrastructure, among other functions, to operate our factories, sell our products, fulfill orders, manage inventory and bill, collect and make payments. our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, cyber-attacks such as computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks and other events. our business is also subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism by third parties as well as employees. despite any precautions we may take, such problems could result in, among other consequences, loss or theft of our, our customers or our business partners intellectual property, proprietary business information or personally identifiable information; damage to our reputation; interruptions in our business; and remediation costs, each of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. if we fail to identify, manage, complete and integrate acquisitions, investment opportunities or other significant transactions, it may adversely affect our future results. as part of our growth strategy, we may pursue acquisitions of, investment opportunities in or other significant transactions with companies that are complementary to our business. in order to pursue this strategy successfully, we must identify attractive acquisition or investment opportunities, successfully complete the transaction, some of which may be large and complex, and manage post-closing issues such as integration of the acquired company or employees. we may not be able to identify or complete appealing acquisition or investment opportunities given the intense competition for these transactions. even if we identify and complete suitable corporate transactions, we may not be able to successfully address any integration challenges in a timely manner, or at all. if we fail to successfully integrate an acquisition, we may not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, and our future results of operations could be adversely affected. please also see the risk factors above for specific risks and uncertainties regarding our acquisition of hgst. 25 table of contents if we are unable to retain or hire key staff and skilled employees our business results may suffer. our success depends upon the continued contributions of our key staff and skilled employees, many of whom would be extremely difficult to replace. global competition for skilled employees in the data storage industry is intense and, as we attempt to move to a position of technology leadership in the storage industry, our business success becomes increasingly dependent on our ability to retain our key staff and skilled employees as well as attract, integrate and retain new skilled employees. volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price and the overall markets may adversely affect our ability to retain key staff or skilled employees who have received equity compensation. additionally, because a substantial portion of our key employees compensation is placed at risk and linked to the performance of our business, when our operating results are negatively impacted by global economic conditions, we are at a competitive disadvantage for retaining and hiring key staff and skilled employees versus other companies that pay a relatively higher fixed salary. if we are unable to retain our existing key staff or skilled employees, or hire and integrate new key staff or skilled employees, or if we fail to implement succession plans for our key staff, our operating results would likely be harmed. the nature of our industry and its reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us and our suppliers and customers to the risk of significant litigation. the data storage industry has been characterized by significant litigation. this includes litigation relating to patent and other intellectual property rights, product liability claims and other types of litigation. litigation can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. moreover, the results of litigation are inherently uncertain and may result in adverse rulings or decisions. we may enter into settlements or be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. as disclosed in part ii, item 8, note 5 in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k on november 18, 2011, a sole arbitrator ruled against us in an arbitration in minnesota. the arbitration involves claims brought by seagate technology llc against us and a now former employee, alleging misappropriation of confidential information and trade secrets. the arbitrator issued an interim award against us in the amount of $525 million plus pre-award interest. on january 23, 2012, the arbitrator issued a final award adding pre-award interest in the amount of $105.4 million, for a total award of $630.4 million. on january 23, 2012, we filed a petition in the district court of hennepin county, minnesota to have the final arbitration award vacated, and a hearing on the petition was held on march 1, 2012. on october 12, 2012, the district court of hennepin county, minnesota vacated, in full, the $630.4 million final arbitration award and ordered that a rehearing be held concerning certain trade secret claims before a new arbitrator. on october 30, 2012, seagate initiated an appeal of the district court decision with the minnesota court of appeals. oral arguments in the appeal were held on april 24, 2013. on july 22, 2013, the minnesota court of appeals reversed the district court decision and remanded for entry of an order and judgment confirming the arbitration award. we strongly disagree with the decision of the court of appeals, believe that the district court decision was correct, and will file a petition for review with the minnesota supreme court. if the minnesota supreme court elects not to hear our petition for review or affirms the court of appeals decision, the district court is expected to enter an order and judgment confirming the $630.4 million final arbitration award, plus post-award interest on the $525 million initial award at the statutory rate of 10% from january 24, 2012. no judgment will be entered while we are petitioning the minnesota supreme court. we evaluate notices of alleged patent infringement and notices of patents from patent holders that we receive from time to time. if claims or actions are asserted against us, we may be required to obtain a license or cross-license, modify our existing technology or design a new non-infringing technology. such licenses or design modifications can be extremely costly. in addition, we may decide to settle a claim or action against us, which settlement could be costly. we may also be liable for any past infringement. if there is an adverse ruling against us in an infringement lawsuit, an injunction could be issued barring production or sale of any infringing product. it could also result in a damage award equal to a reasonable royalty or lost profits or, if there is a finding of willful infringement, treble damages. any of these results would increase our costs and harm our operating results. in addition, our suppliers and customers are subject to similar risks of litigation, and a material, adverse ruling against a supplier or customer could negatively impact our business. our reliance on intellectual property and other proprietary information subjects us to the risk that these key ingredients of our business could be copied by competitors. our success depends, in significant part, on the proprietary nature of our technology, including non-patentable intellectual property such as our process technology. if a competitor is able to reproduce or otherwise capitalize on our technology despite the safeguards we have in place, it may be difficult, expensive or impossible for us to obtain necessary legal protection. also, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do u.s. laws. in addition to patent protection of intellectual property rights, we consider elements of our product designs and processes to be proprietary and confidential. we rely upon employee, consultant and vendor non-disclosure agreements and contractual provisions and a system of internal safeguards to protect our proprietary information. however, any of our registered or unregistered intellectual property rights may be challenged or exploited by others in the industry, which might harm our operating results. 26 table of contents the costs of compliance with state, federal and international legal and regulatory requirements, such as environmental, labor, trade and tax regulations, and customers standards of corporate citizenship could cause an increase in our operating costs. we are subject to, and may become subject to additional, state, federal and international laws and regulations governing our environmental, labor, trade and tax practices. these laws and regulations, particularly those applicable to our international operations, are or may be complex, extensive and subject to change. we will need to ensure that we and our component suppliers timely comply with such laws and regulations, which may result in an increase in our operating costs. for example, in august 2012, the securities and exchange commission adopted final rules to implement section 1502 of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act intended to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of minerals originating from the conflict zones of the democratic republic of congo or adjoining countries, which obligates us to conduct a reasonable country of origin inquiry with respect to conflict minerals included in components of products we directly manufacture, contract to manufacture and purchase to include in products. other legislation has been, and may in the future be, enacted in other locations where we manufacture or sell our products. in addition, climate change and financial reform legislation in the united states is a significant topic of discussion and has generated and may continue to generate federal or other regulatory responses in the near future. if we or our component suppliers fail to timely comply with applicable legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our products or we may face increased operating costs as a result of taxes, fines or penalties, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in connection with our compliance with such environmental laws and regulations, as well as our compliance with industry environmental initiatives, the standards of business conduct required by some of our customers, and our commitment to sound corporate citizenship in all aspects of our business, we could incur substantial compliance and operating costs and be subject to disruptions to our operations and logistics. in addition, if we were found to be in violation of these laws or noncompliant with these initiatives or standards of conduct, we could be subject to governmental fines, liability to our customers and damage to our reputation and corporate brand which could cause our financial condition or operating results to suffer. violation of applicable laws, including labor or environmental laws, and certain other practices by our suppliers or customers could harm our business. we expect our suppliers and customers to operate in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including labor and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required standards of conduct. while our internal operating guidelines promote ethical business practices, we do not control our suppliers or customers or their labor or environmental practices. the violation of labor, environmental or other laws by any of our suppliers or customers, or divergence of a supplier or customer business practices from those generally accepted as ethical, could harm our business by: interrupting or otherwise disrupting the shipment of our product components; damaging our reputation; forcing us to find alternate component sources; reducing demand for our products (for example, through a consumer boycott); or exposing us to potential liability for our suppliers or customers wrongdoings. 27 table of contents failure to continue to pay quarterly cash dividends to our shareholders could cause the market price for our common stock to decline. our payment of quarterly cash dividends will be subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital requirements, and other factors. any reduction or discontinuance by us of the payment of quarterly cash dividends could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. moreover, in the event our payment of quarterly cash dividends is reduced or discontinued, our failure or inability to resume paying cash dividends at historical levels could result in a lower market valuation of our common stock. fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations may negatively affect our operating results. because we manufacture and sell our products abroad, our revenue, margins, operating costs and cash flows are impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. if the u.s. dollar exhibits sustained weakness against most foreign currencies, the u.s. dollar equivalents of unhedged manufacturing costs could increase because a significant portion of our production costs are foreign-currency denominated. conversely, there would not be an offsetting impact to revenues since revenues are substantially u.s. dollar denominated. additionally, we negotiate and procure some of our component requirements in u.s. dollars from non-u.s. based vendors. if the u.s. dollar weakens against other foreign currencies, some of our component suppliers may increase the price they charge for their components in order to maintain an equivalent profit margin. if this occurs, it would have a negative impact on our operating results. prices for our products are substantially u.s. dollar denominated even when sold to customers that are located outside the united states. therefore, as a substantial portion of our sales are from countries outside the united states, fluctuations in currency exchanges rates, most notably the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against other foreign currencies, contribute to variations in sales of products in impacted jurisdictions and could adversely impact demand and revenue growth. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside the united states. we have attempted to manage the impact of foreign currency exchange rate changes by, among other things, entering into short-term, foreign exchange contracts. however, these contracts do not cover our full exposure and can be canceled by the counterparty if currency controls are put in place. increases in our customers credit risk could result in credit losses and an increase in our operating costs. some of our oem customers have adopted a subcontractor model that requires us to contract directly with companies, such as odms, that provide manufacturing and fulfillment services to our oem customers. because these subcontractors are generally not as well capitalized as our direct oem customers, this subcontractor model exposes us to increased credit risks. our agreements with our oem customers may not permit us to increase our product prices to alleviate this increased credit risk. additionally, as we attempt to expand our oem and distribution channel sales into emerging economies such as brazil, russia, india and china, the customers with the most success in these regions may have relatively short operating histories, making it more difficult for us to accurately assess the associated credit risks. our acquisition of hgst has also resulted in an increase to our customer credit risk given that we service many of the same customers. any credit losses we may suffer as a result of these increased risks, or as a result of credit losses from any significant customer, would increase our operating costs, which may negatively impact our operating results. our operating results fluctuate, sometimes significantly, from period to period due to many factors, which may result in a significant decline in our stock price. our quarterly operating results may be subject to significant fluctuations as a result of a number of other factors including: the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major customers; our product mix; changes in the prices of our products; 28 table of contents manufacturing delays or interruptions; acceptance by customers of competing products in lieu of our products; variations in the cost of and lead times for components for our products; limited availability of components that we obtain from a single or a limited number of suppliers; seasonal and other fluctuations in demand for pcs often due to technological advances; and availability and rates of transportation. we often ship a high percentage of our total quarterly sales in the third month of the quarter, which makes it difficult for us to forecast our financial results before the end of the quarter. as a result of the above or other factors, our forecast of operating results for the quarter may differ materially from our actual financial results. if our results of operations fail to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, it could cause an immediate and significant decline in our stock price. we have made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting, and actual results may differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions. we have made and continue to make a number of estimates and assumptions relating to our consolidated financial reporting. the highly technical nature of our products and the rapidly changing market conditions with which we deal means that actual results may differ significantly from our estimates and assumptions. these changes have impacted our financial results in the past and may continue to do so in the future. key estimates and assumptions for us include: price protection adjustments and other sales promotions and allowances on products sold to retailers, resellers and distributors; inventory adjustments for write-down of inventories to lower of cost or market value (net realizable value); testing of goodwill and other long-lived assets for impairment; reserves for doubtful accounts; accruals for product returns; accruals for warranty costs related to product defects; accruals for litigation and other contingencies; liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits; and expensing of stock-based compensation. 29 table of contents the market price of our common stock is volatile. the market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, extremely volatile. factors that may significantly affect the market price of our common stock include the following: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, including those resulting from the seasonality of our business; announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors, which may decrease the volume and profitability of sales of our existing products and increase the risk of inventory obsolescence; new products introduced by us or our competitors; strategic actions by us or competitors, such as acquisitions and restructurings; periods of severe pricing pressures due to oversupply or price erosion resulting from competitive pressures or industry consolidation; developments with respect to patents or proprietary rights; proposed or adopted regulatory changes or developments or anticipated or pending investigations, proceedings or litigation that involve or affect us or our competitors; conditions and trends in the hard drive, computer, data and content management, storage and communication industries; contraction in our operating results or growth rates that are lower than our previous high growth-rate periods; failure to meet analysts revenue or earnings estimates or changes in financial estimates or publication of research reports and recommendations by financial analysts relating specifically to us or the storage industry in general; and macroeconomic conditions that affect the market generally and, in particular, developments related to market conditions for our industry. in addition, the stock market is subject to fluctuations in the stock prices and trading volumes that affect the market prices of the stock of public companies, including us. these broad market fluctuations have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of shares of our common stock. for example, expectations concerning general economic conditions may cause the stock market to experience extreme price and volume fluctuations from time to time that particularly affect the stock prices of many high technology companies. these fluctuations often appear to be unrelated to the operating performance of the companies. securities class action lawsuits are often brought against companies after periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. a number of such suits have been filed against us in the past, and should any new lawsuits be filed, such matters could result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources and management attention. the resale of shares of common stock issued to hitachi in connection with our acquisition of hgst could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. on march 8, 2012, as partial consideration for our acquisition of hgst, we issued 25 million shares of our common stock to hitachi. we are required by the terms of an investor rights agreement we entered into with hitachi to file a form s-3 registration statement with the securities and exchange commission on or before august 28, 2013 to register the resale by hitachi of these shares of common stock. sales of these shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. further, because we do not know when or in what amounts hitachi may seek to sell these shares of common stock, uncertainty about the market price of our common stock could extend for a significant period of time and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. 30 table of contents current economic conditions have caused us difficulty in adequately protecting our increased cash and cash equivalents from financial institution failures. the uncertain global economic conditions and volatile investment markets have caused us to hold more cash and cash equivalents than we would hold under normal circumstances. since there has been an overall increase in demand for low-risk, u.s. government-backed securities with a limited supply in the financial marketplace, we face increased difficulty in adequately protecting our increased cash and cash equivalents from possible sudden and unforeseeable failures by banks and other financial institutions. a failure of any of these financial institutions in which deposits exceed fdic limits could have an adverse impact on our financial position. if our internal controls are found to be ineffective, our stock price may be adversely affected. our most recent evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of june 28, 2013, in compliance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, our internal control over financial reporting was effective. if our internal control over financial reporting is found to be ineffective or if we identify a material weakness in our financial reporting in future periods, investors may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which may adversely affect our stock price. from time to time we may become subject to income tax audits or similar proceedings, and as a result we may incur additional costs and expenses or owe additional taxes, interest and penalties that may negatively impact our operating results. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and certain foreign jurisdictions, and our determination of our tax liability is subject to review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities. for example, as we have previously disclosed, we are under examination by the internal revenue service for certain fiscal years and in connection with that examination, we received revenue agent reports seeking certain adjustments to income as disclosed in part ii, item 8, note 9 in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. although we believe our tax positions are properly supported, the final timing and resolution of the notice of proposed adjustment and the audits are subject to significant uncertainty and could result in our having to pay amounts to the applicable tax authority in order to resolve examination of our tax positions, which could result in an increase or decrease of our current estimate of unrecognized tax benefits and may negatively impact our financial position, results of operations, net income or cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk disclosure about foreign currency risk although the majority of our transactions are in u.s. dollars, some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. we purchase short-term, foreign exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign currency exchange fluctuations on certain underlying assets, revenue, liabilities and commitments for operating expenses and product costs denominated in foreign currencies. the purpose of entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations. the contract maturity dates do not exceed 12 months. we do not purchase foreign exchange contracts for trading purposes. currently, we focus on hedging our foreign currency risk related to the british pound sterling, euro, japanese yen, malaysian ringgit, philippine peso, singapore dollar and thai baht. see part ii, item 8, notes 1 and 11 in the notes to consolidated financial statements, included in this annual report on form 10-k. 47 table of contents as of june 28, 2013, we had outstanding the following purchased foreign exchange contracts (in millions, except weighted average contract rate): contract amount weighted average contract rate* unrealized gain (loss) foreign exchange contracts: cash flow hedges: japanese yen $ 198 $ 99.39 $ 2 malaysian ringgit $ 264 $ 3.13 $ (4 ) philippine peso $ 42 $ 42.25 singapore dollar $ 49 $ 1.24 $ (1 ) thai baht $ 1,186 $ 29.84 $ (43 ) fair value hedges: british pound sterling $ 3 $ 0.66 euro $ 12 $ 0.77 japanese yen $ 88 $ 99.16 philippine peso $ 23 $ 43.22 thai baht $ 89 $ 31.17 * expressed in units of foreign currency per u.s. dollar in 2013, 2012 and 2011, total net realized transaction and foreign exchange contract currency gains and losses were not material to our consolidated financial statements. disclosure about other market risks variable interest rate risk borrowings under the credit facility bear interest at a rate equal to, at the option of the applicable borrower, either (a) a libor rate determined by reference to the british bankers association libor rate for the interest period relevant to such borrowing, subject to certain exceptions (the eurodollar rate ) or (b) a base rate determined by reference to the higher of (i) the federal funds rate plus 0.50%, (ii) the prime rate as announced by bank of america, n.a. and (iii) the eurodollar rate plus 1.00% (the base rate ), in each case plus an applicable margin. the applicable margin for borrowings under the credit facility ranges from 1.50% to 2.50% with respect to borrowings at the eurodollar rate and 0.50% to 1.50% with respect to borrowings at the base rate. the applicable margins for borrowings under the credit facility are determined based upon a leverage ratio of the company and its subsidiaries calculated on a consolidated basis. if the federal funds rate, prime rate or libor rate increase, our interest payments could also increase. a one percent increase in the variable rate of interest on the term loan facility would increase interest expense by approximately $20 million annually. 48 table of contents