risk factors 8 risk factors some of the statements in this report and, in particular, statements found in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements include statements about our expectations regarding our future liquidity, earnings, expenditures and financial condition. these statements are often identified by the words will, should, anticipate, believe, expect, intend, estimate, hope, or similar expressions. these statements reflect management's current views with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. there are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control. these factors, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the factors described below. our actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements, and accordingly, we can give no assurances that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what impact they will have on our results of operations or financial condition. in view of these uncertainties, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. we expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements that have been made to reflect the occurrence of events after the date hereof. in addition to the risks and uncertainties we discuss elsewhere in this form 10-k (particularly in "part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations") or in our other filings with the 8 securities and exchange commission (sec), the following are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those we project in any forward-looking statement. industry risks industry cyclicality - changes in the prices of our products could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. macroeconomic conditions and fluctuations in industry capacity create changes in prices, sales volumes, and margins for most of our products, particularly commodity grades of packaging and paper products. prices for all of our products are driven by many factors, including general economic conditions, demand for our products, and competitive conditions in our industry, and we have little influence over the timing and extent of price changes, which are often volatile. if supply exceeds demand, prices for our products could decline, resulting in decreased earnings and cash generated from operations. additionally, market conditions beyond our control can affect the prices for our commodity products. our ability to achieve acceptable operating performance and margins depends primarily upon managing our cost structure and general operating conditions. if the prices for our products decline or if we are unable to control our costs, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating cash flows, profitability, and liquidity. competition - the intensity of competition in the industries in which we operate could result in downward pressure on pricing and volume, which could lower earnings and cash generated from operations. our industries are highly competitive, with no single containerboard, corrugated packaging or white paper producer having a dominant position. containerboard and commodity white paper products cannot generally be differentiated by producer, which tends to intensify price competition. the corrugated packaging industry is also sensitive to changes in economic conditions, as well as other factors including innovation, design, quality, and service. to the extent that one or more competitors are more successful than we are with respect to any key competitive factor, our business could be adversely affected. our packaging products also compete, to some extent, with various other packaging materials, including products made of paper, plastics, wood and various types of metal. our white paper products compete with electronic data transmission and document storage alternatives. increasing shifts to these alternatives have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on usage of these products. the intensity of competition could lead to a reduction in our market share as well as lower sales prices for our products, both of which could reduce our earnings and cash flow. several of our competitors are larger than we are and may have greater financial and other resources, greater manufacturing economies of scale, greater energy self sufficiency, or lower operating costs, compared with our company. we may be unable to compete with these companies particularly during economic downturns. some of the factors that may adversely affect our ability to compete in the markets in which we participate include the entry of new competitors (including overseas producers) into the markets we serve, our competitors' pricing strategies, our inability to anticipate and respond to changing customer preferences, and our inability to maintain the cost-efficiency of our facilities. company risks cost of fiber - an increase in the cost of fiber could increase our manufacturing costs and lower our earnings. the market price of wood fiber varies based upon availability, source, and the costs of fuels used in the harvesting and transportation of wood fiber. the cost and availability of wood fiber can also be impacted by weather, general logging conditions, and geography. the availability and cost of recycled fiber depends heavily on recycling rates and the domestic and global demand for recycled products. we purchase recycled fiber for use at seven of our eight mills. in 2013, including boise's operations as if we had acquired boise on january 1, 2013, we would have purchased approximately 480,000 tons of recycled fiber, net of the recycled fiber generated by our corrugated box plants. the amount of recycled fiber purchased each year varies based upon production and the prices of both recycled fiber and wood fiber. periods of supply and demand imbalance have tended to create significant price volatility. periods of higher recycled fiber costs and unusual price volatility have occurred in the past and may occur again in the future, which could result in lower or volatile earnings. cost of purchased energy and chemicals - an increase in the cost of purchased energy and chemicals could lead to higher manufacturing costs, resulting in reduced earnings. we have the ability to use various types of purchased fuels in our manufacturing operations, including coal, bark, natural gas and oil. energy prices, in particular prices for oil and natural gas, have fluctuated dramatically in the past. new and more stringent environmental regulations may discourage, or make more expensive, the use of certain fuels. in addition, costs for key chemicals used in our manufacturing also fluctuate. these 9 fluctuations impact our manufacturing costs and result in earnings volatility. if energy and chemical prices rise, our production costs and transportation costs will increase and cause higher manufacturing costs and reduced earnings. material disruption of manufacturing - a material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. our business depends on continuous operation of our facilities, particularly at our mills. any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within such facilities, could cease operations unexpectedly for a significant period of time due to a number of events, including: unscheduled maintenance outages. prolonged power failures. equipment failure. explosion of a boiler. disruption in the supply of raw materials, such as wood fiber, energy, or chemicals. a chemical spill or release. closure related to environmental concerns. labor difficulties. disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks, and tunnels. fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, or other catastrophes. terrorism or threats of terrorism. other operational problems. these events could harm our ability to serve our customers and lead to higher costs and reduced earnings. environmental matters - pca may incur significant environmental liabilities with respect to both past and future operations. we are subject to, and must comply with, a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws, particularly those relating to air and water quality, waste disposal and the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater. because environmental regulations are constantly evolving, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to maintain compliance with those laws. see item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - environmental matters for estimates of expenditures we expect to make for environmental compliance in the next few years. new and more stringent environmental regulations, including new u.s. environmental protection agency rules relating to industrial boiler emissions known as the boiler mact rules, are expected to require us to incur significant additional capital expenditures to modify or replace certain of our boilers. in addition, environmental regulations may increase the cost of our raw materials and purchased energy. although we have established reserves to provide for known environmental liabilities as of the date of this filing, these reserves may change over time due to the enactment of new environmental laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations, which might require additional significant environmental expenditures. customer concentration - officemax represents a significant portion of pca's paper business. we have a supply agreement with officemax, our largest customer in the paper segment. the agreement requires officemax to buy, and us to supply, at least 80% of officemax's requirements for office papers through december 2017; however, there are circumstances that could cause the agreement to terminate before 2017. in november 2013, officemax merged with office depot. our agreement with officemax provides that it survives the merger with respect to the office paper requirements of the legacy officemax business. we cannot predict how the merger will affect the financial condition of the combined company, the paper requirements of the legacy officemax business, or the effects on the pricing and competition for office papers. in 2013, for the period of october 25, 2013, to december 31, 2013, our sales revenue to office depot (including officemax) accounted for 38% of paper segment sales. significant reductions in paper purchases from the post-merger entity would cause our paper business to attempt to expand its customer base and could potentially decrease its profitability if new customer sales required either a decrease in its pricing and/or an increase in its cost of sales. any significant deterioration in the financial condition of the post-merger entity affecting the ability to pay or causing a significant change in the willingness to continue to purchase our products could harm our business and results of operations. acquisition integration - the acquired businesses of boise may underperform relative to our expectations, and we may not be able to successfully integrate the businesses. the acquired businesses of boise may underperform relative to our expectations, which may cause our financial results to differ from our own or the investment community's expectations. if the acquired businesses underperform relative to our expectations, or if we fail to successfully integrate the businesses, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. cyber security - risks related to security breaches of company, customer, employee, and vendor information, as well as the technology that manages our operations and other business processes, could adversely affect our business. we rely on 10 various information technology systems to capture, process, store, and report data and interact with customers, vendors, and employees. despite careful security and controls design, implementation, updating, and internal and independent third-party assessments, our information technology systems, and those of our third party providers, could become subject to cyber attacks or security breaches. network, system, and data breaches could result in misappropriation of sensitive data or operational disruptions including interruption to systems availability and denial of access to and misuse of applications required by our customers to conduct business with us. misuse of internal applications; theft of intellectual property, trade secrets, or other corporate assets; and inappropriate disclosure of confidential information could stem from such incidents. delayed sales, slowed production, or other repercussions resulting from these disruptions could result in lost sales, business delays, and negative publicity and could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, or cash flows. risks related to economic, financial, and investment risk increased leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. we increased our indebtedness in connection with our acquisition of boise from $807.6 million (including capital leases) as of september 30, 2013, to approximately $2,572.7 million at december 31, 2013. we and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. the increase in indebtedness from the acquisition of boise, plus any future borrowings, may affect our future operations, including, without limitation: result in additional cash requirements to make interest and maturity payments on our outstanding indebtedness; increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in our business or industry conditions; limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and limit our flexibility to make acquisitions. further, if we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions to secure additional cash by selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing investments. market price of our common stock - the market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. securities markets worldwide periodically experience significant price declines and volume fluctuations. this market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. in addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. general economic conditions - adverse business and global economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity, and financial position. general global economic conditions adversely affect the demand and production of consumer goods, employment levels, the availability and cost of credit, and ultimately, the profitability of our business. high unemployment rates, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment, and lower consumer spending typically result in decreased demand for our products. these conditions are beyond our control and may have a significant impact on our business, results of operations, liquidity, and financial position. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 "quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for the impact of changes in interest rates on pca's future cash flows. (c) we enter into operating leases in the normal course of business. we lease some of our operating facilities, as well as other property and equipment, under operating leases. some lease agreements provide us with the option to renew the lease or purchase the leased property. our operating lease obligations would change if we exercised these renewal options and/or if we entered into additional operating lease agreements. (d) included among our raw materials purchase obligations are contracts to purchase approximately $100.0 million of wood fiber. purchase prices under most of these agreements are set quarterly or semiannually based on regional market prices, and the estimate is based on contract terms or first quarter 2014 pricing. except for deposits required pursuant to wood supply contracts, these obligations are not recorded in our consolidated financial statements until contract payment terms take effect. under most of these log and fiber supply agreements, we have the right to cancel or reduce our commitments in the event of a mill curtailment or shutdown. our log and fiber obligations are subject to change based on, among other things, the effect of governmental laws and regulations, our manufacturing operations not operating in the normal course of business, log and fiber availability, and the status of environmental appeals. 27 (e) we enter into utility contracts for the purchase of electricity and natural gas. we also purchase these services under utility tariffs. the contractual and tariff arrangements include multiple-year commitments and minimum annual purchase requirements. our payment obligations were based upon prices in effect on december 31, 2013 , or upon contract language, if available. (f) consists primarily of wood chip processing service agreements. (g) long-term deferred income taxes of $434.8 million and unrecognized tax benefits of $5.7 million, including interest and penalties, are excluded from this table, because the timing of their future cash outflows are uncertain. (h) amounts primarily consist of pension and postretirement obligations, including current portion of $2.1 million and 2014 required minimum contributions of approximately $5.0 million . actuarially determined liabilities related to pension benefits are recorded based on estimates and assumptions. key factors used in developing estimates of these liabilities include assumptions related to discount rates, retirement and mortality rates, expected contributions, and other factors. changes in estimates and assumptions related to the measurement of funded status could have a material impact on the amount reported. in the table above, we allocated our pension obligations by year based on the future required minimum pension contributions, as determined by our actuaries. see note 10 , employee benefit plans and other postretirement benefits , of the notes to consolidated financial statements in "part ii, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk pca is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and changes in the market value of its financial instruments. pca periodically enters into derivatives in order to minimize these risks, but not for trading purposes. for a discussion of derivatives and hedging activities, see note 11 , derivative instruments and hedging activities , of the notes to consolidated financial statements in "part ii,risk factors 8 risk factors some of the statements in this report and, in particular, statements found in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements include statements about our expectations regarding our future liquidity, earnings, expenditures, and financial condition. these statements are often identified by the words "will," "should," "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "hope," or similar expressions. these statements reflect management's current views with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. there are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control. these factors, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the factors described below. our actual results, performance, or achievement could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements, and accordingly, we can give no assurances that any of the events anticipated by the forward- 8 looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what impact they will have on our results of operations or financial condition. in view of these uncertainties, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. we expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements that have been made to reflect the occurrence of events after the date hereof. in addition to the risks and uncertainties we discuss elsewhere in this form 10-k (particularly in "part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations") or in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission (sec), the following are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those we project in any forward-looking statement. industry risks industry cyclicality - changes in the prices of our products could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. macroeconomic conditions and fluctuations in industry capacity can create changes in prices, sales volumes, and margins for most of our products, particularly commodity grades of packaging and paper products. prices for all of our products are driven by many factors, including general economic conditions, demand for our products, and competitive conditions in our industry, and we have little influence over the timing and extent of price changes, which are often volatile. if supply exceeds demand, prices for our products could decline, resulting in decreased earnings and cash generated from operations. additionally, market conditions beyond our control can affect the prices for our commodity products. if the prices for our products decline or if we are unable to control our costs, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating cash flows, profitability, and liquidity. competition - the intensity of competition in the industries in which we operate could result in downward pressure on pricing and volume, which could lower earnings and cash generated from operations. our industries are highly competitive, with no single containerboard, corrugated packaging, or white paper producer having a dominant position. containerboard and commodity white paper products cannot generally be differentiated by producer, which tends to intensify price competition. the corrugated packaging industry is also sensitive to changes in economic conditions, as well as other factors including innovation, design, quality, and service. to the extent that one or more competitors are more successful than we are with respect to any key competitive factor, our business could be adversely affected. our packaging products also compete, to some extent, with various other packaging materials, including products made of paper, plastics, wood, and various types of metal. our white paper products compete with electronic data transmission and document storage alternatives. increasing shifts to electronic alternatives have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on usage of these products. the intensity of competition could lead to a reduction in our market share as well as lower sales prices for our products, both of which could reduce our earnings and cash flow. several of our competitors are larger than we are and may have greater financial and other resources, greater manufacturing economies of scale, greater energy self sufficiency, or lower operating costs, compared with our company. we may be unable to compete with these companies particularly during economic downturns. some of the factors that may adversely affect our ability to compete in the markets in which we participate include the entry of new competitors (including overseas producers, who have increased imports of white paper to the united states in recent years and some of whom we believe may be violating international trade rules) into the markets we serve, our competitors' pricing strategies, our inability to anticipate and respond to changing customer preferences, and our inability to maintain the cost-efficiency of our facilities. company risks inflation and other general cost increases - we are subject to both contractual, inflation, and other general cost increases. if we are unable to offset these cost increases by price increases, growth, and/or cost reductions in our operations, these inflation and other general cost increases could have a material adverse effect of our operating cash flows, profitability, and liquidity. in 2014, our total company costs including cost of sales (cos) and selling, general, and administrative expenses (sg&amp;a) was $5.1 billion , and excluding non-cash costs (depreciation, pension, and share-based compensation expense) was $4.7 billion . a 1% increase in cos and sg&amp;a costs would increase costs by $51 million and cash costs by $47 million . certain items of product input costs have historically been subject to more cost volatility including fiber, purchased energy, and chemicals. cost of fiber - an increase in the cost of fiber could increase our manufacturing costs and lower our earnings. the market price of wood fiber varies based upon availability, source, and the costs of fuels used in the harvesting and 9 transportation of wood fiber. the cost and availability of wood fiber can also be impacted by weather, general logging conditions, and geography. the availability and cost of recycled fiber depends heavily on recycling rates and the domestic and global demand for recycled products. we purchase recycled fiber for use at seven of our eight mills. in 2014 , we purchased approximately 493,000 tons of recycled fiber, net of the recycled fiber generated by our corrugated box plants. the amount of recycled fiber purchased each year varies based upon production and the prices of both recycled fiber and wood fiber. periods of supply and demand imbalance have tended to create significant price volatility. periods of higher recycled fiber costs and unusual price volatility have occurred in the past and may occur again in the future, which could result in lower or volatile earnings. cost of purchased energy and chemicals - an increase in the cost of purchased energy and chemicals could lead to higher manufacturing costs, resulting in reduced earnings. we have the ability to use various types of purchased fuels in our manufacturing operations, including coal, bark, natural gas, and oil. energy prices, in particular prices for oil and natural gas, have fluctuated dramatically in the past. new and more stringent environmental regulations may discourage, or make more expensive, the use of certain fuels. in addition, costs for key chemicals used in our manufacturing also fluctuate. these fluctuations impact our manufacturing costs and result in earnings volatility. if energy and chemical prices rise, our production costs and transportation costs will increase and cause higher manufacturing costs and reduced earnings. material disruption of manufacturing - a material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales, and/or negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. our business depends on continuous operation of our facilities, particularly at our mills. any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within such facilities, could cease operations unexpectedly for a significant period of time due to a number of events, including: unscheduled maintenance outages. prolonged power failures. equipment failure. explosion of a boiler. disruption in the supply of raw materials, such as wood fiber, energy, or chemicals. a chemical spill or release. closure related to environmental concerns. labor difficulties. disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks, and tunnels. fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, or other catastrophes. terrorism or threats of terrorism. other operational problems. these events could harm our ability to serve our customers and lead to higher costs and reduced earnings. environmental matters - pca may incur significant environmental liabilities with respect to both past and future operations. we are subject to, and must comply with, a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws, particularly those relating to air and water quality, waste disposal and the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater. because environmental regulations are constantly evolving, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to maintain compliance with those laws. see item 7. "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - environmental matters" for estimates of expenditures we expect to make for environmental compliance in the next few years. new and more stringent environmental regulations, including new u.s. environmental protection agency rules relating to industrial boiler emissions known as the boiler mact rules, are expected to require us to incur significant additional capital expenditures to modify or replace certain of our boilers. in addition, environmental regulations may increase the cost of our raw materials and purchased energy. although we have established reserves to provide for known environmental liabilities, these reserves may change over time due to the enactment of new environmental laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations, which might require additional significant environmental expenditures. customer concentration - officemax represents a significant portion of pca's paper business. we have a supply agreement with officemax, our largest customer in the paper segment. the agreement requires officemax to buy, and us to supply, at least 80% of officemax's requirements for office papers through december 2017; however, there are circumstances that could cause the agreement to terminate before 2017. if this were to occur, officemax's purchase obligations under the agreement would phase out over two years. officemax was acquired by office depot, inc. late in 2013. office depot has since 10 agreed to be acquired by staples, inc. on february 4, 2015. the pending acquisition by staples is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. if the acquisition of office depot by staples is consummated, the risks described below may be intensified. our agreement with officemax will continue to remain in effect after a merger or acquisition as to the office paper requirements of the legacy officemax business. however, we cannot predict how any merger or acquisition will affect the financial condition of the ultimate entity, the paper requirements of the legacy office max business, the purchasing decisions of the ultimate entity or the effects on pricing or competition for office papers. in 2014, sales to office depot (including office max) represented 44% of our paper segment sales. if these sales are reduced, whether as a result of the pending integration of office max into office depot, the future acquisition of office depot by staples or otherwise, we would need to find new customers, which could harm our profitability if our prices are lower or costs are higher. any significant deterioration in the financial condition of the ultimate entity affecting its ability to pay or any other change that results in its willingness to purchase our products will harm our business and results of operations. acquisition integration - the acquired businesses may underperform relative to our expectations, and we may not be able to successfully integrate the businesses. the acquired businesses may underperform relative to our expectations, which may cause our financial results to differ from our own or the investment community's expectations. if the acquired businesses underperform relative to our expectations, or if we fail to successfully integrate the businesses, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. cyber security - risks related to security breaches of company, customer, employee, and vendor information, as well as the technology that manages our operations and other business processes, could adversely affect our business. we rely on various information technology systems to capture, process, store, and report data and interact with customers, vendors, and employees. despite careful security and controls design, implementation, updating, and internal and independent third-party assessments, our information technology systems, and those of our third party providers, could become subject to cyber attacks or security breaches. network, system, and data breaches could result in misappropriation of sensitive data or operational disruptions including interruption to systems availability and denial of access to and misuse of applications required by our customers to conduct business with us. misuse of internal applications; theft of intellectual property, trade secrets, or other corporate assets; and inappropriate disclosure of confidential information could stem from such incidents. delayed sales, slowed production, or other repercussions resulting from these disruptions could result in lost sales, business delays, and negative publicity and could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, or cash flows. risks related to economic, financial, and investment risk increased leverage may reduce our operating flexibility. at december 31, 2014, we had $2.3 billion of long-term debt outstanding and a $350.0 million undrawn revolving credit facility. we and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our current borrowings, plus any future borrowings, may affect our future operations, including, without limitation: result in additional cash requirements to make interest and maturity payments on our outstanding indebtedness; increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in our business or industry conditions; limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate, and other purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and limit our flexibility to make acquisitions. further, if we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions to secure additional cash by selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing investments. market price of our common stock - the market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of the stock to decline. securities markets worldwide periodically experience significant price declines and volume fluctuations. this market volatility, as well as general economic, market, or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. in addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. general economic conditions - adverse business and global economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity, and financial position. general global economic conditions adversely affect the demand and production of consumer goods, employment levels, the availability and cost of credit, and ultimately, the profitability of our business. high unemployment rates, lower family income, lower corporate earnings, lower business 11 investment, and lower consumer spending typically result in decreased demand for our products. these conditions are beyond our control and may have a significant impact on our business, results of operations, liquidity, and financial position. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for the impact of changes in interest rates on pca's future cash flows. (c) we enter into operating leases in the normal course of business. we lease some of our operating facilities, as well as other property and equipment, under operating leases. some lease agreements provide us with the option to renew the lease or purchase the leased property. our operating lease obligations would change if we exercised these renewal options and/or if we entered into additional operating lease agreements. (d) included among our raw materials purchase obligations are contracts to purchase approximately $84.4 million of wood fiber. purchase prices under most of these agreements are set quarterly or semiannually based on regional market prices, and the estimate is based on contract terms or first quarter 2015 pricing. except for deposits required pursuant to wood supply contracts, these obligations are not recorded in our consolidated financial statements until contract payment terms take effect. under most of these log, fiber, and wood chip supply agreements, we have the right to cancel or reduce our commitments in the event of a mill curtailment or shutdown. our log, fiber, and wood chip obligations are subject to change based on, among other things, the effect of governmental laws and regulations, our manufacturing operations not operating in the normal course of business, log and fiber availability, and the status of environmental appeals. 27 (e) we enter into utility contracts for the purchase of electricity and natural gas. we also purchase these services under utility tariffs. the contractual and tariff arrangements include multiple-year commitments and minimum annual purchase requirements. our payment obligations were based upon prices in effect on december 31, 2014 , or contract language, if available. (f) long-term deferred income taxes of $409.9 million and unrecognized tax benefits of $4.8 million, including interest and penalties, are excluded from this table, because the timing of their future cash outflows are uncertain. (g) amounts primarily consist of pension and postretirement obligations, including current portion of $6.3 million . we have no required minimum qualified pension contributions in 2015 . actuarially determined liabilities related to pension benefits are recorded based on estimates and assumptions. key factors used in developing estimates of these liabilities include assumptions related to discount rates, retirement and mortality rates, expected contributions, and other factors. changes in estimates and assumptions related to the measurement of funded status could have a material impact on the amount reported. in the table above, we allocated our pension obligations by year based on the future required minimum pension contributions, as determined by our actuaries. see note 11 , employee benefit plans and other postretirement benefits , of the notes to consolidated financial statements in "part ii, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk pca is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and changes in the market value of its financial instruments. pca periodically enters into derivatives in order to minimize these risks, but not for trading purposes. for a discussion of derivatives and hedging activities, see note 13 , derivative instruments and hedging activities , of the notes to consolidated financial statements in "part ii,risk factors 8 risk factors some of the statements in this report and, in particular, statements found in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements include statements about our expectations regarding our future liquidity, earnings, expenditures, and financial condition. these statements are often identified by the words "will," "should," "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "hope," or similar expressions. these statements reflect management's current views with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. there are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control. these factors, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the factors described below. our actual results, performance, or achievement could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements, and accordingly, we can give no assurances that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what impact they will have on our results of operations or financial condition. in view of these uncertainties, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. we expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly revise or otherwise update any forward-looking statements that have been made to reflect the occurrence of events after the date hereof. in addition to the risks and uncertainties we discuss elsewhere in this form 10-k (particularly in "part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations") or in our other filings with the 8 securities and exchange commission (sec), the following are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those we project in any forward-looking statement. industry cyclicality - changes in the prices of our products could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. macroeconomic conditions and fluctuations in industry capacity can create changes in prices, sales volumes, and margins for most of our products, particularly commodity grades of packaging and paper products. prices for all of our products are driven by many factors, including general economic conditions, demand for our products, and competitive conditions in our industry, and we have little influence over the timing and extent of price changes, which may be unpredictable and volatile. if supply exceeds demand, prices for our products could decline, and our earnings and operating cash flows would be lower. lower prices for our products could have a material adverse effect on our operating cash flows, profitability, and liquidity. competition - the intensity of competition in the industries in which we operate could result in downward pressure on pricing and volume, which could lower earnings and operating cash flows. our industries are highly competitive, with no single containerboard, corrugated packaging, or white paper producer having a dominant position. containerboard and commodity white paper products cannot generally be differentiated by producer, which tends to intensify price competition. the corrugated packaging industry is also sensitive to changes in economic conditions, as well as other factors including innovation, design, quality, and service. to the extent that one or more competitors are more successful than we are with respect to any key competitive factor, our business could be adversely affected. our packaging products also compete, to some extent, with various other packaging materials, including products made of paper, plastics, wood, and various types of metal. the intensity of competition could lead to a reduction in our market share as well as lower sales prices for our products, both of which could reduce our earnings and operating cash flows. our white paper products compete with electronic data transmission and document storage alternatives. increasing shifts to electronic alternatives have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on usage of these products. as a result of such competition, we are experiencing decreasing demand for most of our existing white paper products. as the use of these alternatives grows, demand for paper products is likely to further decline. declines in demand for our paper products may adversely affect our earnings and operating cash flows. some of our competitors are larger than we are and may have greater financial and other resources, greater manufacturing economies of scale, greater energy self sufficiency, or lower operating costs, compared with our company. we may be unable to compete effectively with these companies particularly during economic downturns. some of the factors that may adversely affect our ability to compete in the markets in which we participate include the entry of new competitors (including overseas producers, who have increased imports of white paper to the united states in recent years and have been found to have violated international trade rules) into the markets we serve, our competitors' pricing strategies, our inability to anticipate and respond to changing customer preferences, and our inability to maintain the cost-efficiency of our facilities. in february 2016, antidumping and countervailing duties were imposed on imports of certain white paper products from australia, brazil, china, indonesia, and portugal. while these duties will increase the costs of producers in these countries to sell products in the united states, we are unable to determine if domestic market conditions will improve. inflation and other general cost increases - we may not be able to offset higher costs . we are subject to both contractual, inflationary, and other general cost increases, including with regard to our labor costs and purchases of raw materials. if we are unable to offset these cost increases by price increases, growth, and/or cost reductions in our operations, these inflationary and other general cost increases could have a material adverse effect on our operating cash flows, profitability, and liquidity. in 2015, our total company costs including cost of sales (cos) and selling, general, and administrative expenses (sg&amp;a) was $5.0 billion , and excluding non-cash costs (depreciation, pension and postretirement expense, and share-based compensation expense) was $4.6 billion . a 1% increase in cos and sg&amp;a costs would increase costs by $50 million and cash costs by $46 million . cost of fiber - an increase in the cost of fiber could increase our manufacturing costs and lower our earnings. the market price of wood fiber varies based upon availability, source, and the costs of fuels used in the harvesting and transportation of wood fiber. the cost and availability of wood fiber can also be impacted by weather, general logging conditions, geography, and regulatory activity. the availability and cost of recycled fiber depends heavily on recycling rates and the domestic and global demand for recycled products. we purchase recycled fiber for use at seven of our eight mills. in 2015 , we purchased approximately 605,000 9 tons of recycled fiber, net of the recycled fiber generated by our corrugated box plants. the amount of recycled fiber purchased each year varies based upon production and the prices of both recycled fiber and wood fiber. periods of supply and demand imbalance have created significant price volatility. periods of higher recycled fiber costs and unusual price volatility have occurred in the past and may occur again in the future, which could result in higher costs and lower earnings. cost of purchased fuels and chemicals - an increase in the cost of purchased fuels and chemicals could lead to higher manufacturing costs, resulting in reduced earnings. we have the ability to use various types of purchased fuels in our manufacturing operations, including natural gas, bark, oil, and coal. fuel prices, in particular prices for oil and natural gas, have fluctuated dramatically in the past. new and more stringent environmental regulations may discourage, reduce the availability of, or make more expensive, the use of certain fuels, particularly coal and fossil fuels. in addition, costs for key chemicals used in our manufacturing operations also fluctuate. these fluctuations impact our manufacturing costs and result in earnings volatility. if fuel and chemical prices rise, our production costs and transportation costs will increase and cause higher manufacturing costs and reduced earnings. material disruption of manufacturing - a material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales, and/or negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. our business depends on continuous operation of our facilities, particularly at our mills. any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within such facilities, could cease operations unexpectedly for a significant period of time due to a number of events, including: unscheduled maintenance outages. prolonged power failures. equipment failure. explosion of a boiler. disruption in the supply of raw materials, such as wood fiber, energy, or chemicals. a chemical spill or release. closure or curtailment related to environmental concerns. labor difficulties. disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks, and tunnels. fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, or other catastrophes. terrorism or threats of terrorism. other operational problems. these events could harm our ability to serve our customers and lead to higher costs and reduced earnings. environmental matters - pca may incur significant environmental liabilities with respect to both past and future operations. we are subject to, and must comply with, a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws, particularly those relating to air and water quality, waste disposal and the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater. because environmental regulations are constantly evolving, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to maintain compliance with those laws. see item 7. "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - environmental matters" for estimates of expenditures we expect to make for environmental compliance in the next few years. new and more stringent environmental regulations may be adopted and may require us to incur significant additional capital expenditures to modify or replace certain of our boilers. in addition, environmental regulations may increase the cost of our raw materials and purchased energy. although we have established reserves to provide for known environmental liabilities, these reserves may change over time due to the enactment of new environmental laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations, which might require additional significant environmental expenditures. customer concentration - office depot represents a significant portion of pca's paper business. we have a supply agreement with office depot, our largest customer in the paper segment. the agreement requires office depot to buy, and us to supply, at least 50% of office depot's requirements for office papers through december 2017; however, there are circumstances that could cause the agreement to terminate before 2017. if this were to occur, office depot's purchase obligations under the agreement would phase out. office depot has agreed to be acquired by staples, inc. the pending acquisition by staples is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including regulatory approval, which is uncertain. if the acquisition of office depot by staples is consummated, the risks described below may be intensified. our agreement with office depot will continue to remain in effect after a merger or acquisition as to the office paper requirements of the legacy office depot business. however, we cannot predict how any merger or acquisition will affect the 10 financial condition of the ultimate entity, the paper requirements of the legacy office depot business, the purchasing decisions of the ultimate entity or the effects on pricing or competition for office papers. in 2015, sales to office depot represented 45% of our paper segment sales. if these sales are reduced, whether as a result of the future acquisition of office depot by staples or otherwise, we would need to find new customers. we may not be able to fully replace any lost sales, and any new sales may be at lower prices or higher costs. any significant deterioration in the financial condition of office depot (or its ultimate acquirer) affecting its ability to pay or any other change that results in its willingness to purchase our products will harm our business and results of operations. cyber security - risks related to security breaches of company, customer, employee, and vendor information, as well as the technology that manages our operations and other business processes, could adversely affect our business. we rely on various information technology systems to capture, process, store, and report data and interact with customers, vendors, and employees. despite careful security and controls design, implementation, updating, and internal and independent third-party assessments, our information technology systems, and those of our third party providers, could become subject to cyber attacks or security breaches. network, system, and data breaches could result in misappropriation of sensitive data or operational disruptions including interruption to systems availability and denial of access to and misuse of applications required by our customers to conduct business with us. misuse of internal applications; theft of intellectual property, trade secrets, or other corporate assets; and inappropriate disclosure of confidential information could stem from such incidents. delayed sales, slowed production, or other issues resulting from these disruptions could result in lost sales, business delays, and negative publicity and could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, or operating cash flows. debt obligations - our debt service obligations may reduce our operating flexibility. at december 31, 2015, we had $2.3 billion of long-term debt outstanding and a $326.5 million undrawn revolving credit facility, after deducting letters of credit. we and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our current borrowings, plus any future borrowings, may affect our ability to operate our business, including, without limitation: result in significant cash requirements to make interest and maturity payments on our outstanding indebtedness; increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in our business or industry conditions; increase our vulnerability to increases in interest rates; limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate, and other purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and limit our flexibility to make acquisitions. further, if we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions to secure additional cash by selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing investments, which may not be achievable on acceptable terms or at all. market price of our common stock - the market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of the stock to decline. securities markets worldwide periodically experience significant price declines and volume fluctuations. this market volatility, as well as general economic, market, or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. in addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. general economic conditions - adverse business and global economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity, and financial position. general global economic conditions adversely affect the demand and production of consumer goods, employment levels, the availability and cost of credit, and ultimately, the profitability of our business. high unemployment rates, lower family income, unfavorable currency exchange rates, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment, and lower consumer spending typically result in decreased demand for our products and products of our customers which utilize our products. these conditions are beyond our control and may have a significant impact on our business, results of operations, liquidity, and financial position. 11 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for the impact of changes in interest rates on pca's future cash flows. (c) we enter into operating leases in the normal course of business. we lease some of our operating facilities, as well as other property and equipment, under operating leases. some lease agreements provide us with the option to renew the lease or purchase the leased property. our operating lease obligations would change if we exercised these renewal options and/or if we entered into additional operating lease agreements. (d) included among our raw materials purchase obligations are contracts to purchase approximately $237.3 million of wood fiber. purchase prices under most of these agreements are set quarterly, semiannually, or annually based on regional market prices, and the estimate is based on contract terms or first quarter 2016 pricing. except for deposits required pursuant to wood supply contracts, these obligations are not recorded in our consolidated financial statements until contract payment terms take effect. our log, fiber, and wood chip obligations are subject to change based on, among other things, the effect of governmental laws and regulations, our manufacturing operations not operating in the normal course of business, log and fiber availability, and the status of environmental appeals. 27 (e) we enter into utility contracts for the purchase of electricity and natural gas. we also purchase these services under utility tariffs. the contractual and tariff arrangements include multiple-year commitments and minimum annual purchase requirements. our payment obligations were based upon prices in effect on december 31, 2015 , or contract language, if available. (f) long-term deferred income taxes of $347.0 million and unrecognized tax benefits of $6.7 million, including interest and penalties, are excluded from this table, because the timing of their future cash outflows are uncertain. (g) amounts primarily consist of pension and postretirement obligations, including current portion of $2.9 million . we have minimum qualified pension contributions of approximately $27 million in 2016 . see note 11 , employee benefit plans and other postretirement benefits , of the notes to consolidated financial statements in "part ii, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk pca is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and changes in the market value of its financial instruments. pca periodically enters into derivatives in order to minimize these risks, but not for trading purposes. for a discussion of derivatives and hedging activities, see note 14 , derivative instruments and hedging activities , of the notes to consolidated financial statements in "part ii,risk factors 8 risk factors some of the statements in this report and, in particular, statements found in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements include statements about our expectations regarding our future liquidity, earnings, expenditures, and financial condition. these statements are often identified by the words "will," "should," "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "hope," or similar expressions. these statements reflect management's current views with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. there are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control. these factors, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the factors described below. our actual results, performance, or achievement could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements, and accordingly, we can give no assurances that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what impact they will have on our results of operations or financial condition. in view of these uncertainties, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. we expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly revise or otherwise update any forward-looking statements that have been made to reflect the occurrence of events after the date hereof. in addition to the risks and uncertainties we discuss elsewhere in this form 10-k (particularly in "part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations") or in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission (sec), the following are important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those we project in any forward-looking statement. 8 industry cyclicality - changes in the prices of our products could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. macroeconomic conditions and fluctuations in industry capacity can create changes in prices, sales volumes, and margins for most of our products, particularly commodity grades of packaging and paper products. prices for all of our products are driven by many factors, including general economic conditions, demand for our products, and competitive conditions in our industry, and we have little influence over the timing and extent of price changes, which may be unpredictable and volatile. in addition, our selling prices are influenced by index levels published by trade publications. changes in how these index levels are determined or maintained may affect our sales prices. if supply exceeds demand, industry operating conditions deteriorate or other factors result in lower prices for our products, our earnings and operating cash flows would be harmed. general economic conditions - adverse business and economic conditions or changes in tax laws may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity, and financial position. general global and u.s. economic conditions adversely affect the demand and production of consumer goods, employment levels, the availability and cost of credit, and ultimately, the profitability of our business. high unemployment rates, lower family income, unfavorable currency exchange rates, lower corporate earnings, lower business investment, and lower consumer spending typically result in decreased demand for our products and products of our customers which utilize our products. changes in tax laws or tax rates may have a material impact on our future cash taxes, effective tax rate or deferred tax assets and liabilities. these conditions are beyond our control and may have a significant impact on our business, results of operations, liquidity, and financial position. competition - the intensity of competition in the industries in which we operate could result in downward pressure on pricing and volume, which could lower earnings and operating cash flows. our industries are highly competitive, with no single containerboard, corrugated packaging, or white paper producer having a dominant position. containerboard and commodity white paper products cannot generally be differentiated by producer, which tends to intensify price competition. the corrugated packaging industry is also sensitive to changes in economic conditions, as well as other factors including innovation, design, quality, and service. to the extent that one or more competitors are more successful than we are with respect to any key competitive factor, our business could be adversely affected. our packaging products also compete, to some extent, with various other packaging materials, including products made of paper, plastics, wood, and various types of metal. if we are unable to successfully compete, we may lose market share or may be required to charge lower sales prices for our products, both of which would reduce our earnings and operating cash flows. our white paper products compete with electronic data transmission and document storage alternatives. increasing shifts to electronic alternatives have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on usage of these products. as a result of such competition, we are experiencing decreasing demand for most of our existing white paper products. as the use of these alternatives grows, demand for paper products is likely to further decline. declines in demand for our paper products may adversely affect our earnings and operating cash flows. some of our competitors are larger than we are and may have greater financial and other resources, greater manufacturing economies of scale, greater energy self-sufficiency, or lower operating costs, compared with our company. we may be unable to compete effectively with these companies particularly during economic downturns. some of the factors that may adversely affect our ability to compete in the markets in which we participate include the entry of new competitors (including overseas producers, who have increased imports of white paper to the united states in recent years and have been found to have violated international trade rules) into the markets we serve, our competitors' pricing strategies, our inability to anticipate and respond to changing customer preferences, and our inability to maintain the cost-efficiency of our facilities. 9 inflation and other general cost increases - we may not be able to offset higher costs . we are subject to both contractual, inflationary, and other general cost increases, including with regard to our labor costs and purchases of raw materials. if we are unable to offset these cost increases by price increases, growth, and/or cost reductions in our operations, these inflationary and other general cost increases could have a material adverse effect on our operating cash flows, profitability, and liquidity. in 2016, our total company costs including cost of sales (cos) and selling, general, and administrative expenses (sg&amp;a) was $5.0 billion , and excluding non-cash costs (depreciation, depletion and amortization, pension and postretirement expense, and share-based compensation expense) was $4.6 billion . a 1% increase in cos and sg&amp;a costs would increase costs by $50 million and cash costs by $46 million . cost of fiber - an increase in the cost of fiber could increase our manufacturing costs and lower our earnings. the market price of wood fiber varies based upon availability, source, and the costs of fuels used in the harvesting and transportation of wood fiber. the cost and availability of wood fiber can also be impacted by weather, general logging conditions, geography, and regulatory activity. the availability and cost of recycled fiber depends heavily on recycling rates and the domestic and global demand for recycled products. we purchase recycled fiber for use at four of our five containerboard mills as well as the containerboard machine at our wallula, washington mill. in 2016 , we purchased approximately 630,000 tons of recycled fiber, net of the recycled fiber generated by our corrugated box plants. the amount of recycled fiber purchased each year varies based upon production and the prices of both recycled fiber and wood fiber. periods of supply and demand imbalance have created significant price volatility. periods of higher recycled fiber costs and unusual price volatility have occurred in the past and may occur again in the future, which could result in higher costs and lower earnings. a $10 per ton price increase in recycled fiber for our containerboard mills, would result in approximately $6 million of additional expense. cost of purchased fuels and chemicals - an increase in the cost of purchased fuels and chemicals could lead to higher manufacturing costs, resulting in reduced earnings. we have the ability to use various types of purchased fuels in our manufacturing operations, including natural gas, bark, and other purchased fuels. fuel prices, in particular prices for oil and natural gas, have fluctuated dramatically in the past. new and more stringent environmental regulations may discourage, reduce the availability of, or make more expensive, the use of certain fuels, particularly coal and fossil fuels. in addition, costs for key chemicals used in our manufacturing operations also fluctuate. these fluctuations impact our manufacturing costs and result in earnings volatility. if fuel and chemical prices rise, our production costs and transportation costs will increase and cause higher manufacturing costs and reduced earnings. a $0.10 per million mmbtu in natural gas prices would result in approximately $3 million of additional expense, based on 2016 usage. material disruption of manufacturing - a material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales, and/or negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. our business depends on continuous operation of our facilities, particularly at our mills. any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within such facilities, could cease operations unexpectedly for a significant period of time due to a number of events, including: unscheduled maintenance outages. prolonged power failures. equipment failure. explosion of a boiler or other major facilities. disruption in the supply of raw materials, such as wood fiber, energy, or chemicals. a chemical spill or release. closure or curtailment related to environmental concerns. labor difficulties. disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, railroad tracks, and tunnels. fires, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, or other catastrophes. terrorism or threats of terrorism. other operational problems. these events could harm our ability to produce our products and serve our customers and may lead to higher costs and reduced earnings. 10 environmental matters - pca may incur significant environmental liabilities with respect to both past and future operations. we are subject to, and must comply with, a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws, particularly those relating to air and water quality, waste disposal and the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater. because environmental regulations are constantly evolving, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to maintain compliance with those laws. see item 7. "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - environmental matters" for estimates of expenditures we expect to make for environmental compliance in the next few years. new and more stringent environmental regulations may be adopted and may require us to incur significant additional capital expenditures to modify or replace certain of our boilers. in addition, environmental regulations may increase the cost of our raw materials and purchased energy. although we have established reserves to provide for known environmental liabilities, these reserves may change over time due to the enactment of new environmental laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations, which might require additional significant environmental expenditures. mergers and acquisitions - our acquired businesses may underperform relative to our expectations, and we may not be able to successfully integrate these businesses into our own. we have completed several mergers and acquisitions and investments in recent years, including our acquisitions of timbar and columbus container during 2016. our success will depend in part on our ability to successfully integrate, and receive the intended benefits from these acquisitions. there may be difficulties, costs and delays involved in the integration of these businesses into ours. integration requires modification of operational and financial systems, and may result in significant additional expenses. if the acquired businesses underperform relative to our expectations, or if we fail to successfully integrate these businesses, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. customer concentration - office depot represents a significant portion of pca's paper business. we have a supply agreement with office depot, our largest customer in the paper segment. the agreement requires office depot to buy, and us to supply, at least 50% of office depot's requirements for office papers through december 2017. in 2016, sales to office depot represented 42% of our paper segment sales and 8% of our consolidated sales. if these sales are reduced, including if we are unable to renew the agreement at committed volumes, we would need to find new customers. we may not be able to fully replace any lost sales, and any new sales may be at lower prices or higher costs. any significant deterioration in the financial condition of office depot affecting its ability to pay or any other change that makes office depot less willing to purchase our products will harm our business and results of operations. labor relations- if we experience strikes or other work stoppages, our business will be harmed. our workforce is highly unionized and operates under various collective bargaining agreements. we must negotiate to renew or extend any union contracts that have recently expired or are expiring in the near future. while we believe that we have generally had satisfactory labor relations, we may not be able to successfully negotiate new agreements without work stoppages or labor difficulties in the future or renegotiate them on favorable terms. if we are unable to successfully renegotiate the terms of any of these agreements, or if we experience any extended interruption of operations at any of our facilities as a result of strikes or other work stoppages, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. cyber security - risks related to security breaches of company, customer, employee, and vendor information, as well as the technology that manages our operations and other business processes, could adversely affect our business. we rely on various information technology systems to capture, process, store, and report data and interact with customers, vendors, and employees. despite careful security and controls design, implementation, updating, and internal and independent third-party assessments, our information technology systems, and those of our third party providers, could become subject to cyber attacks or security breaches. network, system, and data breaches could result in misappropriation of sensitive data or operational disruptions including interruption to systems availability and denial of access to and misuse of applications required by our customers to conduct business with us. misuse of internal applications; theft of intellectual property, trade secrets, or other corporate assets; and inappropriate disclosure of confidential information could stem from such incidents. delayed sales, slowed production, or other issues resulting from these disruptions could result in lost sales, business delays, and negative publicity and could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, or operating cash flows. debt obligations - our debt service obligations may reduce our operating flexibility. at december 31, 2016, we had $2.6 billion of long-term debt outstanding and a $324.9 million undrawn revolving credit facility, after deducting letters of credit. we and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our indebtedness includes $1.0 billion with floating interest rates. an increase in interest rates will increase the amount we must pay to service our indebtedness. our current borrowings, plus any future borrowings, may affect our ability to operate our business, including, without limitation: 11 result in significant cash requirements to make interest and maturity payments on our outstanding indebtedness; increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in our business or industry conditions; increase our vulnerability to increases in interest rates; limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate, and other purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and limit our flexibility to make acquisitions. further, if we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions to secure additional cash by selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing investments, which may not be achievable on acceptable terms or at all. market price of our common stock - the market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of the stock to decline. securities markets worldwide periodically experience significant price declines and volume fluctuations. this market volatility, as well as general economic, market, or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. in addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for the impact of changes in interest rates on pca's future cash flows. (c) we enter into operating leases in the normal course of business. we lease some of our operating facilities, as well as other property and equipment, under operating leases. some lease agreements provide us with the option to renew the lease or purchase the leased property. our operating lease obligations would change if we exercised these renewal options and/or if we entered into additional operating lease agreements. (d) included among our raw materials purchase obligations are contracts to purchase approximately $171.7 million of wood fiber. purchase prices under most of these agreements are set quarterly, semiannually, or annually based on regional market prices, and the estimate is based on contract terms or first quarter 2017 pricing. except for deposits required pursuant to wood supply contracts, these obligations are not recorded in our consolidated financial statements until contract payment terms take effect. our log, fiber, and wood chip obligations are subject to change based on, among other things, the effect of governmental laws and regulations, disruptions to our manufacturing operations, and log and fiber availability. (e) we enter into utility contracts for the purchase of electricity and natural gas. we also purchase these services under utility tariffs. the contractual and tariff arrangements include multiple-year commitments and minimum annual purchase requirements. our payment obligations were based upon prices in effect on december 31, 2016 , or contract language, if available. 27 (f) long-term deferred income taxes of $334.7 million and unrecognized tax benefits of $6.3 million, including interest and penalties, are excluded from this table, because the timing of their future cash outflows are uncertain. (g) amounts primarily consist of pension and postretirement obligations, including current portion of $2.5 million . we have minimum qualified pension contributions of approximately $8 million in 2017 . see note 10 , employee benefit plans and other postretirement benefits , of the notes to consolidated financial statements in "part ii, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk pca is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and changes in the market value of its financial instruments. pca periodically enters into derivatives in order to minimize these risks, but not for trading purposes. we were not party to any derivative-based arrangements at december 31, 2016 . for a discussion of derivatives and hedging activities, see note 13 , derivative instruments and hedging activities , of the notes to consolidated financial statements in "part ii,quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 23 quantitive and qualitative disclosures about market risk while part of tenneco, pca has not had any material market risk due to the fact that its debt financing and risk management activities were conducted by pactiv or tenneco. as a result of the april 1999 transactions, pca is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and changes in the market value of its financial instruments. pca periodically enters into derivatives in order to minimize these risks, but not for trading purposes. under the terms of the senior credit agreement dated as of april 12, 1999, pca was required to maintain for at least two years after the closing of the transactions interest rate protection agreements establishing a fixed maximum interest rate with respect to at least 50% of the outstanding term loans under the senior credit agreement. upon the refinancing of the senior credit agreement on june 29, 2000, this requirement was deleted. pca currently has interest rate collar agreements that protect against rising interest rates and simultaneously guarantee a minimum interest rate. the original notional amount of these collar agreements was $720.0 million. as pca has made debt prepayments, the need for these collar agreements has diminished. accordingly, pca has reduced the notional amount of the collars to $175.0 million as of december 31, 2001. the weighted average floor of the interest rate collar agreements is 5.02% and the weighted average ceiling of the interest rate collar agreements is 6.85%. the interest rate on approximately 71% of pca's variable-rate debt at december 31, 2001 is capped. pca receives payments under the collar agreements if the applicable interest rate (libor or commercial paper) exceeds the ceiling. correspondingly, pca makes payments under the collar agreements if the applicable interest rate drops below the floor. in both cases, the amounts received or paid are based upon the notional amount and the difference between the actual interest rate and the 23 ceiling or floor rate. the weighted average duration of the interest rate collar agreements is approximately 16 months. as a result of the collar agreements noted above and the interest rate environment, a one percent increase in interest rates would result in an increase in interest expense and a corresponding decrease in income before taxes of approximately $0.7 million and $3.2 million annually for the years ended december 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. as of december 31, 2001 and 2000, the weighted average libor was 1.91% and 6.73%, respectively, and the weighted average commercial paper rate was 1.92% and 6.60%, respectively. the effect of an interest rate change to the fair market value of the outstanding debt is insignificant. this analysis does not consider any other impact on fair market value that could exist in such an interest rate environment. in the event of a change in interest rates, management could take actions to further mitigate its exposure to the change. however, due to the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, the sensitivity analysis assumes no changes in pca's financial structure. quantitive and qualitative disclosures about market riskrisk factors 9 risk factors some of the statements in this report and, in particular, statements found in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these statements are often identified by the words will, should, anticipate, believe, expect, intend, estimate, hope, or similar expressions. these statements reflect management current views with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. there are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control. these factors, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the factors described below. our actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements, and accordingly, we can give no assurances that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what impact they will have on our results of operations or financial condition. in view of these uncertainties, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. we expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements that have been made to reflect the occurrence of events after the date hereof. industry risks industry earnings cyclicality imbalances of supply and demand for containerboard could affect the price at which we can sell containerboard and corrugated products, and as a result, could result in lower selling prices and earnings. the price of containerboard could fall if the supply of containerboard available for sale in the market exceeds the demand. the demand for containerboard is driven by market needs for containerboard in the united states and abroad to manufacture corrugated shipping containers. market needs or demand are driven by both global and u.s. business conditions. if supply exceeds demand, prices for containerboard and corrugated products could decline, resulting in decreased earnings and cash generated from operations. 9 table of contents competition the intensity of competition in the containerboard and corrugated packaging industry could result in downward pressure on pricing and volume, which could lower earnings and cash generated from operations. the containerboard and corrugated products industry is highly competitive, with no single containerboard or corrugated packaging producer having a dominant position. containerboard cannot generally be differentiated by producer, which tends to intensify price competition. the corrugated packaging industry is also sensitive to changes in economic conditions, as well as other factors including innovation, design, quality and service. to the extent that one or more competitors are more successful with respect to any key competitive factor, our business could be adversely affected. our products also compete, to some extent, with various other packaging materials, including products made of paper, plastics, wood and various types of metal. the intensity of competition could lead to a reduction in our market share as well as lower sales prices for our products, both of which could reduce our earnings and cash flow. company risks cost of fiber an increase in the cost of fiber could increase our manufacturing costs and lower our earnings. pca has supply agreements at market prices for wood fiber to be consumed at three of our four mills on approximately 352,000 acres of timberland. in addition to these supply agreements, pca also secures wood fiber from various other sources at market prices. pca purchases recycled fiber for use at three of its four containerboard mills. pca currently purchases, net of recycled fiber generated at its box plants, approximately 400,000 to 450,000 tons of recycled fiber per year. the amount of recycled fiber purchased each year depends on the prices of both recycled fiber and wood fiber as the company attempts to minimize total fiber costs. the market price of wood fiber varies based upon availability and source. in addition, the increase in demand of products manufactured, in whole or in part, from recycled fiber, on a global basis, has caused an occasional tightening in the supply of recycled fiber. these periods of supply and demand imbalance have tended to create significant price volatility. periods of above average fiber costs and unusual price volatility have occurred in the past and may occur again in the future, which could result in lower or volatile earnings. cost of purchased energy and chemicals an increase in the cost of purchased energy and chemicals could lead to higher manufacturing costs, resulting in reduced earnings. pca has the capability to use various types of purchased fuels in its manufacturing operations, including coal, bark, natural gas and oil. energy prices, in particular prices for oil and natural gas, have fluctuated dramatically in the past and have risen substantially in recent years. in addition, costs for key chemicals used in our manufacturing have risen. these fluctuations impact our manufacturing costs and result in earnings volatility. if energy and chemical prices rise, our production costs will increase, which will lead to higher manufacturing costs and reduced earnings. material disruption of manufacturing a material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively impact our results of operation and financial condition. our business depends on continuous operation of our facilities, particularly at our mills. any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within such facilities, could cease operations unexpectedly for a long period of time due to a number of events, including unscheduled maintenance outages; prolonged power failures; an equipment failure; explosion of a boiler; labor difficulties; natural catastrophes; terrorism; governmental regulations; and other operational problems. these events could lead to higher costs and reduced earnings. 10 table of contents environmental matters pca may incur significant environmental liabilities with respect to both past and future operations. we are subject to, and must comply with, a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws, particularly those relating to air and water quality, waste disposal and the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater. because environmental regulations are constantly evolving, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to maintain compliance with those laws. see item 1. business environmental matters for certain estimates of expenditures we expect to make for environmental compliance in the next few years. although we have established reserves to provide for known environmental liabilities as of the date of this filing, these reserves may change over time due to the enactment of new environmental laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations, which might require additional significant environmental expenditures. investment risks market price of our common stock the market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. securities markets worldwide periodically experience significant price declines and volume fluctuations. this market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. in addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. general risks economic conditions our earnings and cash generated from operations could be significantly lower if a severe downturn in the u.s. economy occurs. our operations and financial performance are directly impacted by changes in the u.s. economy, and to a lesser extent, by global economic conditions. the significant downturn in the u.s. economy began to impact our industry and pca in the fourth quarter of 2008 and continued in 2009, lowering the demand for our products and our mill production. this lower demand and production reduced our revenues, increased our unit production costs, and lowered our earnings and our cash generated from operations. demand for our products and pca mill production improved during the second half of 2009, but it is uncertain if economic conditions will again deteriorate or continue to improve. in the event that economic conditions deteriorate, our operating and financial performance will be adversely impacted. lower earnings and reduced cash flow could impact our ability to fund operations, capital requirements, and common stock dividend payments, and a prolonged and severe downturn could possibly impact our ability to comply with our debt covenants. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 28 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for the impact of changes in interest rates on pca future cash flows. the operating lease commitments, capital commitments, purchase commitments and letters of credit are not reflected on pca consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2009. see notes 8 and 12 to the audited consolidated financial statements for additional information. pca currently does not have any projections for future pension contributions beyond 2010. see note 6 to the audited consolidated financial statements for additional information. as of december 31, 2009, the company expected payment for significant contractual obligations excludes $9.0 million of obligations for unrecognized tax benefits because the company cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the period of cash settlement for such liability. see note 14 to the audited consolidated financial statements for additional information. pca primary sources of liquidity are net cash provided by operating activities, borrowings under pca revolving credit facility and additional borrowings under pca receivables credit facility. as of december 31, 2009, pca had $172.2 million in unused borrowing capacity under its existing credit facilities, net of the impact on this borrowing capacity of $18.8 million of outstanding letters of credit. currently, pca primary uses of cash are for operations, capital expenditures, debt service and declared common stock dividends, which it expects to be able to fund from these sources. 22 table of contents the following table provides the outstanding balances and the weighted average interest rates as of december 31, 2009 for pca revolving credit facility, the receivables credit facility and the senior notes: balance at projected annual december 31, weighted average cash interest borrowing arrangement 2009 interest rate payments (dollars in thousands) revolving credit facility $ n/a n/a receivables credit facility 109,000 1.97 $ 2,148 5 3 / 4 % senior notes (due august 1, 2013) 400,000 5.75 23,000 6 1 / 2 % senior notes (due march 15, 2018) 150,000 6.50 9,750 total $ 659,000 5.30 % $ 34,898 the above table excludes unamortized debt discount of $1.3 million at december 31, 2009. it also excludes from the projected annual cash interest payments, the non-cash income from the annual amortization of the $22.8 million received in july 2003 and the non-cash expense from the annual amortization of the $4.4 million paid in march 2008 to settle the treasury locks related to the 5 3 / 4 % senior notes due 2013 and the 6 1 / 2 % senior notes due 2018. the amortization is being recognized over the terms of the 5 3 / 4 % senior notes due 2013 and the 6 1 / 2 % senior notes due 2018 and is included in interest expense, net. the instruments governing pca indebtedness contain financial and other covenants that limit, among other things, the ability of pca and its subsidiaries to: enter into sale and leaseback transactions, incur liens, incur indebtedness at the subsidiary level, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, or merge or consolidate with any other person or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the assets of pca. these limitations could limit corporate and operating activities. in addition, pca must maintain minimum net worth and maximum debt to total capitalization and minimum interest coverage ratios under the revolving credit facility. a failure to comply with the restrictions contained in the revolving credit facility could lead to an event of default, which could result in an acceleration of any outstanding indebtedness and/or prohibit pca from drawing on the revolving credit facility. such an acceleration may also constitute an event of default under the senior notes indentures and the receivables credit facility. at december 31, 2009, pca was in compliance with these covenants. pca currently expects to incur capital expenditures of $300.0 million in 2010, including up to $200.0 million for major energy optimization projects at its counce and valdosta mills. the remaining $100.0 million in expenditures will be used primarily for maintenance capital, cost reduction, business growth and environmental compliance. pca believes that net cash generated from operating activities, available cash reserves and alternative fuel mixture tax credit receivable, and available borrowings under its committed credit facilities and available capital through access to capital markets will be adequate to meet its liquidity and capital requirements, including payments of any declared common stock dividends, for the foreseeable future. as its debt or credit facilities become due, pca will need to repay, extend or replace such facilities, which will be subject to future economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond pca control. 23 table of contents environmental matters pca is subject to, and must comply with, a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws, particularly those relating to air and water quality, waste disposal and the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater. the most significant of these laws affecting the company are: resource conservation and recovery act (rcra); clean water act (cwa); clean air act (caa); the emergency planning and community right-to-know-act (epcra); toxic substance control act (tsca); and safe drinking water act (sdwa). pca believes that it is currently in material compliance with these and all applicable environmental rules and regulations. because environmental regulations are constantly evolving, the company has incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to maintain compliance with these and other environmental laws. the company works diligently to anticipate and budget for the impact of applicable environmental regulations, and does not currently expect that future environmental compliance obligations will materially affect its business or financial condition. for the year ended december 31, 2009, we spent approximately $26.4 million to comply with the requirements of these and other environmental laws. for the years ended december 31, 2008 and 2007, the costs of environmental compliance were approximately $23.5 million and $19.4 million, respectively. as is the case with any industrial operation, pca has, in the past, incurred costs associated with the remediation of soil or groundwater contamination, as required by the federal comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, commonly known as the federal superfund law, and analogous state laws. cleanup requirements arise with respect to properties the company currently owns or operates, former facilities and off-site facilities where the company has disposed of hazardous substances. as part of the april 12, 1999 transaction, pactiv has agreed to retain all liability for all former facilities and all sites associated with pre-closing off-site waste disposal. pactiv has also retained environmentally impaired real property in filer city, michigan unrelated to current mill operations. because liability for remediation costs under environmental laws is strict, meaning that liability is imposed without fault, joint and several, meaning that liability is imposed on each party without regard to contribution, and retroactive, pca could receive notifications of cleanup liability in the future and this liability could be material. from 1994 through 2009, remediation costs at pca mills and corrugated plants totaled approximately $3.2 million. as of december 31, 2009, pca maintained an environmental reserve of $9.1 million relating to on-site landfills and surface impoundments as well as ongoing and anticipated remedial projects. total capital costs for environmental matters were $0.4 million for 2009, and the company currently estimates 2010 environmental capital expenditures will be $1.2 million. as of this filing, the company believes that it is not reasonably possible that future environmental expenditures above the $9.1 million accrued as of december 31, 2009 will have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. while legislation regarding the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions has been proposed at the federal level, it is uncertain whether such legislation will be passed and, if so, what the breadth and scope of such legislation will be. the result of the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could be an increase in our future environmental compliance costs, through caps, taxes or additional capital expenditures to modify facilities, which may be material. however, climate change legislation and the resulting future energy policy could also provide us with opportunities if the use of renewable energy is encouraged. we currently generate a significant portion of our power requirements for our mills using bark, black liquor and biomass as fuel, which are derived from renewable resources. our energy optimization projects at the counce and valdosta linerboard mills are expected to nearly eliminate the use of fossil fuels at those facilities by the end of 2011, while 24 table of contents providing more efficient power generation at those facilities. while we believe we are well-positioned to take advantage of any renewable energy incentives, it is uncertain what the ultimate costs and opportunities of any climate change legislation will be and how our business and industry will be affected. critical accounting policies management discussion and analysis of pca financial condition and results of operations are based upon the company consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. the preparation of these financial statements requires the company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. on an ongoing basis, pca evaluates its estimates, including those related to bad debts, inventories, goodwill and intangible assets, pensions and other postretirement benefits, income taxes, environmental liabilities, stock based compensation, and contingencies and litigation. pca bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. pca believes the following critical accounting policies affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. for a further discussion on the application of these and other accounting policies, see note 2 to its consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. accounts receivable allowance for doubtful accounts and customer deductions pca evaluates the collectibility of its accounts receivable based upon a combination of factors. in circumstances where the company is aware of a specific customer inability to meet its financial obligations (e.g., bankruptcy filings, substantial downgrading of credit sources), pca records a specific reserve for bad debts against amounts due to reduce the net recorded receivable to the amount the company reasonably believes will be collected. for all other customers, the company recognizes reserves for bad debts based on its historical collection experience. if the company collection experience deteriorates (i.e., higher than expected defaults or an unexpected material adverse change in a major customer ability to meet its financial obligations), pca estimates of the recoverability of amounts due could be reduced by a material amount. the customer deductions reserve represents the estimated amount required for customer returns, allowances and earned discounts. based on pca experience, customer returns, allowances and earned discounts have averaged 1.0% of its gross selling price. accordingly, the company reserves 1.0% of its open customer accounts receivable balance for these items. as of december 31, 2009, the balance in the allowance for doubtful accounts reserve was $3.9 million, compared to $4.4 million at december 31, 2008. bad debt expense in 2009 was $1.5 million, compared to $4.2 million in 2008. the decrease in bad debt expense of $2.7 million was primarily attributable to a $1.4 million decrease in expense related to customers who had filed for bankruptcy and a recovery of $1.4 million from one customer that had previously filed for bankruptcy. for the year ended december 31, 2008, bad debt expense was $4.2 million compared to $0.1 million in 2007. the increase in bad debt expense of $4.1 million was primarily attributable to a $2.7 million increase in expense related to customers who had filed for bankruptcy and an increase of $1.1 million reserved for specific customers at the 90% level of their accounts receivable balance as of december 31, 2008. inventories pca records its inventories at the lower of cost or market and includes all costs directly associated with manufacturing products: materials, labor and manufacturing overhead. the estimated market value is based on assumptions for future demand and related pricing. if actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, reductions in the carrying value of inventories may be required. raw materials, 25 table of contents work in process and finished goods valued using the last-in, first-out ( lifo ) cost method comprised 62% and 64% of inventories at current cost at december 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. supplies and materials inventories are valued using a moving average cost. pension and postretirement benefits the company accounts for defined benefit pension plans and postretirement plans in accordance with accounting standards codification ( asc ) 715, compensation retirement benefits. one of the principal assumptions used to calculate net periodic pension cost is the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets may result in recognized returns that are greater or less than the actual returns on those plan assets in any given year. over time, however, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is designed to approximate the actual long term returns. the discount rate assumptions used to calculate net periodic pension and postretirement costs reflect the rates available on high-quality, fixed-income debt instruments on december 31. the rate of compensation increase is another significant assumption used to calculate net periodic pension cost and is determined by pca based upon annual reviews. for postretirement health care plan accounting, pca reviews external data and its own historical trends for health care costs to determine the health care cost trend rate assumption. environmental liabilities pca accounts for its retirement obligations related to its landfills under asc 410, asset retirement and environmental obligations, which requires legal obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets to be recognized at their fair value at the time that the obligations are incurred. upon initial recognition of a liability, that cost is capitalized as part of the related long-lived asset and amortized to expense over the useful life of the asset. the potential costs for various environmental matters are uncertain due to such factors as the unknown magnitude of possible cleanup costs, the complexity and evolving nature of governmental laws and regulations and their interpretations, and the timing, varying costs and effectiveness of alternative cleanup technologies. liabilities recorded for environmental contingencies are estimates of the probable costs based upon available information and assumptions. because of these uncertainties, however, the company estimates may change. pca believes that any additional costs identified as further information becomes available would not have a material effect on its financial statements. in connection with the sale to pca of the containerboard and corrugated products business of pactiv corporation in april 1999, pactiv agreed to retain all liability for all former facilities and all sites associated with off-site waste disposal prior to april 12, 1999. pactiv also retained the environmental liability for a closed landfill located near the filer city mill. revenue recognition pca recognizes revenue as title to the products is transferred to customers. shipping and handling costs are included in cost of sales. shipping and handling billings to a customer are included in net sales. in addition, pca offers volume rebates to certain of its customers. the total cost of these programs is estimated and accrued as a reduction to net sales at the time of the respective sale. impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets goodwill is tested for impairment annually in the fourth quarter or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may exceed fair value. recoverability of goodwill is determined by comparing the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying value, including goodwill. if the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, the implied fair value of the reporting unit 26 table of contents goodwill is compared to the carrying amount of its goodwill to determine if a write-down to fair value is necessary. long-lived assets other than goodwill are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any long-lived asset may not be fully recoverable. in the event that facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any long-lived assets may be impaired, an evaluation of recoverability would be performed. if an evaluation were required, the estimated future undiscounted cash flows associated with the asset (or group of assets) would be compared to the asset (or group of assets ) carrying amount to determine if a write-down to fair value is required. stock-based compensation pca measures and records stock-based compensation cost in accordance with asc 718, compensation stock compensation. stock compensation cost includes: (a) compensation cost for all share-based payments granted prior to, but not vested as of january 1, 2006, the effective date of asc 718, and (b) compensation costs for all share-based payments granted subsequent to january 1, 2006. the grant date fair value is estimated in accordance with the provisions of asc 718. pca recognizes compensation expense associated with option awards ratably over their vesting periods. the company uses the black-scholes-merton option-pricing model to estimate the fair value of each option grant as of the date of grant. expected volatilities are based on historical volatility of the company common stock. the expected life of the option is estimated using historical data pertaining to option exercises and employee terminations. separate groups of employees that have similar historical exercise behavior are considered separately for estimating the expected life. the risk-free interest rate is based on u.s. treasury yields in effect at the time of grant. the fair value of restricted stock awards is determined based on the closing price of pca common stock on the grant date. the company generally recognizes compensation expense associated with restricted stock awards ratably over their vesting periods. as pca board of directors has the ability to accelerate the vesting of restricted stock upon an employee retirement, the company accelerates the recognition of compensation expense for certain employees approaching normal retirement age. income taxes pca annual tax rate is determined based on income, statutory tax rates and the tax impacts of items treated differently for tax purposes than for financial reporting purposes. tax law requires some items to be included in the tax return at different times than the items reflected in the financial statements. as a result, the annual tax rate in the financial statements is different than the rate reported on pca tax return. some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in the tax return, and some differences are temporary, reversing over time, such as depreciation expense. these temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. inherent in determining the annual tax rate are judgments regarding business plans, planning opportunities and expectations about future outcomes. significant management judgments are required for the following items: management reviews pca deferred tax assets for realizability. valuation allowances are established when management believes that it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. changes in valuation allowances from period to period are included in the tax provision. pca establishes accruals for uncertain tax contingencies when, despite the belief that pca tax return positions are fully supported, pca believes that an uncertain tax position does not meet the recognition threshold of asc 740, income taxes. the tax contingency accruals are adjusted in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of tax audits, the expiration of the statute of limitations for the relevant taxing authority to examine a tax return, case law and emerging legislation. while it is difficult to predict the final outcome or timing of resolution for any particular tax matter, pca believes 27 table of contents that the accruals for uncertain tax contingencies at december 31, 2009 reflect the likely outcome of known tax contingencies as of such date in accordance with uncertain tax positions under asc 740. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk pca is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and changes in the market value of its financial instruments. pca periodically enters into derivatives in order to minimize these risks, but not for trading purposes. for a discussion of derivatives and hedging activities, see note 2 to pca consolidated financial statement included elsewhere in the report. the interest rates on approximately 84% of pca debt are fixed. a one percent increase in interest rates related to variable rate debt would have resulted in an increase in interest expense and a corresponding decrease in income before taxes of $1.1 million annually. in the event of a change in interest rates, management could take actions to mitigate its exposure to the change. however, due to the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, the sensitivity analysis assumes no changes in pca financial structure.risk factors 9 risk factors some of the statements in this report and, in particular, statements found in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these statements are often identified by the words will, should, anticipate, believe, expect, intend, estimate, hope, or similar expressions. these statements reflect management current views with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. there are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control. these factors, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the factors described below. our actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements, and accordingly, we can give no assurances that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what impact they will have on our results of operations or financial condition. in view of these uncertainties, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. we expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements that have been made to reflect the occurrence of events after the date hereof. industry risks industry cyclicality imbalances of supply and demand for containerboard could affect the price at which we can sell containerboard and corrugated products, and as a result, could result in lower selling prices and earnings. the price of containerboard could fall if the supply of containerboard available for sale in the market exceeds the demand. the demand for containerboard is driven by market needs for containerboard in the united states and abroad to manufacture corrugated shipping containers. market needs or demand are driven by both global and u.s. business conditions. if supply exceeds demand, prices for containerboard and corrugated products could decline, resulting in decreased earnings and cash generated from operations. 9 table of contents competition the intensity of competition in the containerboard and corrugated packaging industry could result in downward pressure on pricing and volume, which could lower earnings and cash generated from operations. the containerboard and corrugated products industry is highly competitive, with no single containerboard or corrugated packaging producer having a dominant position. containerboard cannot generally be differentiated by producer, which tends to intensify price competition. the corrugated packaging industry is also sensitive to changes in economic conditions, as well as other factors including innovation, design, quality and service. to the extent that one or more competitors are more successful with respect to any key competitive factor, our business could be adversely affected. our products also compete, to some extent, with various other packaging materials, including products made of paper, plastics, wood and various types of metal. the intensity of competition could lead to a reduction in our market share as well as lower sales prices for our products, both of which could reduce our earnings and cash flow. company risks cost of fiber an increase in the cost of fiber could increase our manufacturing costs and lower our earnings. pca has supply agreements at market prices for wood fiber to be consumed at our counce, tennessee and valdosta, georgia mills on approximately 281,000 acres of timberland. in addition to these supply agreements, pca also secures wood fiber from various other sources at market prices. pca purchases recycled fiber for use at three of its four containerboard mills. pca currently purchases, net of recycled fiber generated at its box plants, approximately 400,000 to 450,000 tons of recycled fiber per year. the amount of recycled fiber purchased each year depends on the prices of both recycled fiber and wood fiber as the company attempts to minimize total fiber costs. the market price of wood fiber varies based upon availability and source. in addition, the increase in demand of products manufactured, in whole or in part, from recycled fiber, on a global basis, has caused an occasional tightening in the supply of recycled fiber. these periods of supply and demand imbalance have tended to create significant price volatility. periods of above average fiber costs and unusual price volatility have occurred in the past and may occur again in the future, which could result in lower or volatile earnings. cost of purchased energy and chemicals an increase in the cost of purchased energy and chemicals could lead to higher manufacturing costs, resulting in reduced earnings. pca has the capability to use various types of purchased fuels in its manufacturing operations, including coal, bark, natural gas and oil. energy prices, in particular prices for oil and natural gas, have fluctuated dramatically in the past and have risen substantially in recent years. in addition, costs for key chemicals used in our manufacturing have risen. these fluctuations impact our manufacturing costs and result in earnings volatility. if energy and chemical prices rise, our production costs will increase, which will lead to higher manufacturing costs and reduced earnings. material disruption of manufacturing a material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively impact our results of operation and financial condition. our business depends on continuous operation of our facilities, particularly at our mills. any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within such facilities, could cease operations unexpectedly for a long period of time due to a number of events, including unscheduled maintenance outages; prolonged power failures; an equipment failure; explosion of a boiler; labor difficulties; natural catastrophes; terrorism; governmental regulations; and other operational problems. these events could lead to higher costs and reduced earnings. 10 table of contents environmental matters pca may incur significant environmental liabilities with respect to both past and future operations. we are subject to, and must comply with, a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws, particularly those relating to air and water quality, waste disposal and the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater. because environmental regulations are constantly evolving, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to maintain compliance with those laws. see item 1. business environmental matters for certain estimates of expenditures we expect to make for environmental compliance in the next few years. although we have established reserves to provide for known environmental liabilities as of the date of this filing, these reserves may change over time due to the enactment of new environmental laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations, which might require additional significant environmental expenditures. investment risks market price of our common stock the market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. securities markets worldwide periodically experience significant price declines and volume fluctuations. this market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. in addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. general risks economic conditions our earnings and cash generated from operations could be significantly lower if a severe downturn in the u.s. economy occurs again. our operations and financial performance are directly impacted by changes in the u.s. economy, and to a lesser extent, by global economic conditions. the significant downturn in the u.s. economy impacted our industry and pca in the fourth quarter of 2008 and continued into the first half of 2009, lowering the demand for our products and our mill production. this lower demand and production reduced our revenues, increased our unit production costs, and lowered our earnings and our cash generated from operations. demand for our products and pca mill production improved during the second half of 2009 and continued to improve in 2010. it is unknown whether economic conditions will again deteriorate or continue to improve. in the event that economic conditions deteriorate, our operating and financial performance will be adversely impacted. lower earnings and reduced cash flow could impact our ability to fund operations, capital requirements, and common stock dividend payments, and another prolonged and severe downturn could possibly impact our ability to comply with our debt covenants. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 30 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for the impact of changes in interest rates on pca future cash flows. the operating lease commitments, capital commitments, purchase commitments and letters of credit are not reflected on pca consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2010. see notes 8 and 13 to the audited consolidated financial statements for additional information. pca currently does not have any projections for future pension contributions beyond 2011. see note 6 to the audited consolidated financial statements for additional information. as of december 31, 2010, the company expected payment for significant contractual obligations excludes $7.6 million of obligations for uncertain tax positions because the company cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the period of cash settlement for such liability. see note 15 to the audited consolidated financial statements for additional information. pca primary sources of liquidity are net cash provided by operating activities, borrowings under pca revolving credit facility and additional borrowings under pca receivables credit facility. as of december 31, 2010, pca had $172.2 million in unused borrowing capacity under its existing credit facilities, net of the impact on this borrowing capacity of $18.8 million of outstanding letters of credit. currently, pca primary uses of cash are for operations, capital expenditures, debt service and declared common stock dividends, which it expects to be able to fund from these sources. 24 table of contents the following table provides the outstanding balances and the weighted average interest rates as of december 31, 2010 for pca revolving credit facility, the receivables credit facility and the senior notes: balance at projected annual december 31, weighted average cash interest borrowing arrangement 2010 interest rate payments (dollars in thousands) revolving credit facility $ n/a n/a receivables credit facility 109,000 1.56 % $ 1,700 5 3 / 4 % senior notes (due august 1, 2013) 400,000 5.75 23,000 6 1 / 2 % senior notes (due march 15, 2018) 150,000 6.50 9,750 total $ 659,000 5.23 % $ 34,450 the above table excludes unamortized debt discount of $0.9 million at december 31, 2010. it also excludes from the projected annual cash interest payments, the non-cash income from the annual amortization of the $22.8 million received in july 2003 and the non-cash expense from the annual amortization of the $4.4 million paid in march 2008 to settle the treasury locks related to the 5 3 / 4 % senior notes due 2013 and the 6 1 / 2 % senior notes due 2018. the amortization is being recognized over the terms of the 5 3 / 4 % senior notes due 2013 and the 6 1 / 2 % senior notes due 2018 and is included in interest expense, net. the instruments governing pca indebtedness contain financial and other covenants that limit, among other things, the ability of pca and its subsidiaries to: enter into sale and leaseback transactions, incur liens, incur indebtedness at the subsidiary level, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, or merge or consolidate with any other person or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the assets of pca. these limitations could limit corporate and operating activities. in addition, pca must maintain minimum net worth and maximum debt to total capitalization and minimum interest coverage ratios under the revolving credit facility. a failure to comply with the restrictions contained in the revolving credit facility could lead to an event of default, which could result in an acceleration of any outstanding indebtedness and/or prohibit pca from drawing on the revolving credit facility. such an acceleration may also constitute an event of default under the senior notes indentures and the receivables credit facility. at december 31, 2010, pca was in compliance with these covenants. pca currently expects to incur capital expenditures of $255.0 million in 2011, including $115.0 million for major energy optimization projects at its counce and valdosta mills and $40.0 million for strategic projects in the box plants. the remaining $100.0 million in expenditures will be used primarily for maintenance capital, cost reduction, business growth and environmental compliance. pca believes that net cash generated from operating activities, available cash reserves, available borrowings under its committed credit facilities and available capital through access to capital markets will be adequate to meet its liquidity and capital requirements, including payments of any declared common stock dividends, for the foreseeable future. as its debt or credit facilities become due, pca will need to repay, extend or replace such facilities, which will be subject to future economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond pca control. 25 table of contents environmental matters pca is subject to, and must comply with, a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws, particularly those relating to air and water quality, waste disposal and the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater. the most significant of these laws affecting the company are: resource conservation and recovery act (rcra); clean water act (cwa); clean air act (caa); the emergency planning and community right-to-know-act (epcra); toxic substance control act (tsca); and safe drinking water act (sdwa). pca believes that it is currently in material compliance with these and all applicable environmental rules and regulations. because environmental regulations are constantly evolving, the company has incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to maintain compliance with these and other environmental laws. the company works diligently to anticipate and budget for the impact of applicable environmental regulations, and does not currently expect that future environmental compliance obligations will materially affect its business or financial condition. for the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we spent approximately $24.6 million, $26.4 million and $23.5 million, respectively, to comply with the requirements of these and other environmental laws. additionally, total capital costs for environmental matters were $1.1 million, $0.4 million and $3.5 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and the company currently estimates 2011 environmental capital expenditures will be $3.3 million. as is the case with any industrial operation, pca has, in the past, incurred costs associated with the remediation of soil or groundwater contamination, as required by the federal comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, commonly known as the federal superfund law, and analogous state laws. cleanup requirements arise with respect to properties the company currently owns or operates, former facilities and off-site facilities where the company has disposed of hazardous substances. as part of the sale to pca of the containerboard and corrugated products business of pactiv corporation in april 1999, pactiv agreed to retain all liability for all former facilities and all sites associated with pre-closing off-site waste disposal. pactiv also retained environmentally impaired real property in filer city, michigan unrelated to current mill operations. because liability for remediation costs under environmental laws is strict, meaning that liability is imposed without fault, joint and several, meaning that liability is imposed on each party without regard to contribution, and retroactive, pca could receive notifications of cleanup liability in the future and this liability could be material. from 1994 through 2010, remediation costs at pca mills and corrugated plants totaled approximately $3.2 million. as of december 31, 2010, pca maintained an environmental reserve of $9.7 million relating to on-site landfills and surface impoundments as well as ongoing and anticipated remedial projects. as of this filing, the company believes that it is not reasonably possible that future environmental expenditures above the $9.7 million accrued as of december 31, 2010 will have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. while legislation regarding the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions has been proposed at the federal level, it is uncertain whether such legislation will be passed and, if so, what the breadth and scope of such legislation will be. the result of the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could be an increase in our future environmental compliance costs, through caps, taxes or additional capital expenditures to modify facilities, which may be material. however, climate change legislation and the resulting future energy policy could also provide us with opportunities if the use of renewable energy is encouraged. we currently generate a significant portion of our power requirements for our mills using bark, black liquor and biomass as fuel, which are derived from renewable resources. our energy optimization projects at the counce and valdosta linerboard 26 table of contents mills are expected to nearly eliminate the use of fossil fuels at those facilities by the end of 2011, while providing more efficient power generation at those facilities. while we believe we are well-positioned to take advantage of any renewable energy incentives, it is uncertain what the ultimate costs and opportunities of any climate change legislation will be and how our business and industry will be affected. critical accounting policies management discussion and analysis of pca financial condition and results of operations are based upon the company consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. the preparation of these financial statements requires the company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. on an ongoing basis, pca evaluates its estimates, including those related to bad debts, inventories, goodwill and intangible assets, pensions and other postretirement benefits, income taxes, environmental liabilities, stock based compensation, and contingencies and litigation. pca bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. pca believes the following critical accounting policies affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. for a further discussion on the application of these and other accounting policies, see note 2 to its consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. accounts receivable allowance for doubtful accounts and customer deductions pca evaluates the collectibility of its accounts receivable based upon a combination of factors. in circumstances where the company is aware of a specific customer inability to meet its financial obligations (e.g., bankruptcy filings, substantial downgrading of credit sources), pca records a specific reserve for bad debts against amounts due to reduce the net recorded receivable to the amount the company reasonably believes will be collected. for all other customers, the company recognizes reserves for bad debts based on its historical collection experience. if the company collection experience deteriorates (i.e., higher than expected defaults or an unexpected material adverse change in a major customer ability to meet its financial obligations), pca estimates of the recoverability of amounts due could be reduced by a material amount. the customer deductions reserve represents the estimated amount required for customer returns, allowances and earned discounts. based on pca experience, customer returns, allowances and earned discounts have averaged 1.0% of its gross selling price. accordingly, the company reserves 1.0% of its open customer accounts receivable balance for these items. as of december 31, 2010, the balance in the allowance for doubtful accounts reserve was $2.5 million, compared to $3.9 million at december 31, 2009. the change of balance in the allowance for doubtful accounts resulted in income of $0.9 million in 2010, compared to expense of $1.5 million in 2009. the decrease in bad debt expense of $2.4 million was primarily due to a $1.0 million reduction in the allowance for doubtful accounts reserve to reflect the actual average losses over the past three years and a $0.9 million decrease in expense related to customers who had filed for bankruptcy. for the year ended december 31, 2009, bad debt expense was $1.5 million compared to $4.2 million in 2008. the decrease in bad debt expense of $2.7 million was primarily attributable to a $1.4 million decrease in expense related to customers who had filed for bankruptcy and a recovery of $1.4 million from one customer that had previously filed for bankruptcy. inventories pca records its inventories at the lower of cost or market and includes all costs directly associated with manufacturing products: materials, labor and manufacturing overhead. the estimated market value is based on assumptions for future demand and related pricing. if actual market conditions are less favorable than those 27 table of contents projected by management, reductions in the carrying value of inventories may be required. raw materials, work in process and finished goods valued using the last-in, first-out ( lifo ) cost method comprised 65% and 62% of inventories at current cost at december 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. supplies and materials inventories are valued using a moving average cost. pension and postretirement benefits the company accounts for defined benefit pension plans and postretirement plans in accordance with accounting standards codification ( asc ) 715, compensation retirement benefits. one of the principal assumptions used to calculate net periodic pension cost is the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets may result in recognized returns that are greater or less than the actual returns on those plan assets in any given year. over time, however, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is designed to approximate the actual long term returns. the discount rate assumptions used to calculate net periodic pension and postretirement costs reflect the rates available on high-quality, fixed-income debt instruments on december 31. the rate of compensation increase is another significant assumption used to calculate net periodic pension cost and is determined by pca based upon annual reviews. for postretirement health care plan accounting, pca reviews external data and its own historical trends for health care costs to determine the health care cost trend rate assumption. environmental liabilities pca accounts for its retirement obligations related to its landfills under asc 410, asset retirement and environmental obligations, which requires legal obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets to be recognized at their fair value at the time that the obligations are incurred. upon initial recognition of a liability, that cost is capitalized as part of the related long-lived asset and amortized to expense over the useful life of the asset. the potential costs for various environmental matters are uncertain due to such factors as the unknown magnitude of possible cleanup costs, the complexity and evolving nature of governmental laws and regulations and their interpretations, and the timing, varying costs and effectiveness of alternative cleanup technologies. liabilities recorded for environmental contingencies are estimates of the probable costs based upon available information and assumptions. because of these uncertainties, however, the company estimates may change. pca believes that any additional costs identified as further information becomes available would not have a material effect on its financial statements. in connection with the sale to pca of the containerboard and corrugated products business of pactiv corporation in april 1999, pactiv agreed to retain all liability for all former facilities and all sites associated with off-site waste disposal prior to april 12, 1999. pactiv also retained the environmental liability for a closed landfill located near the filer city mill. revenue recognition pca recognizes revenue as title to the products is transferred to customers. shipping and handling costs are included in cost of sales. shipping and handling billings to a customer are included in net sales. in addition, pca offers volume rebates to certain of its customers. the total cost of these programs is estimated and accrued as a reduction to net sales at the time of the respective sale. impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets goodwill is tested for impairment annually in the fourth quarter or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may exceed fair value. recoverability of goodwill is determined by comparing the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying value, including goodwill. if the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill is compared to the carrying amount of its goodwill to determine if a write-down to fair value is necessary. 28 table of contents long-lived assets other than goodwill are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any long-lived asset may not be fully recoverable. in the event that facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any long-lived assets may be impaired, an evaluation of recoverability would be performed. if an evaluation were required, the estimated future undiscounted cash flows associated with the asset (or group of assets) would be compared to the asset (or group of assets ) carrying amount to determine if a write-down to fair value is required. stock-based compensation pca measures and records stock-based compensation cost in accordance with asc 718, compensation stock compensation. stock compensation cost includes: (a) compensation cost for all share-based payments granted prior to, but not vested as of january 1, 2006, the effective date of asc 718, and (b) compensation costs for all share-based payments granted subsequent to january 1, 2006. the grant date fair value is estimated in accordance with the provisions of asc 718. pca recognizes compensation expense associated with option awards ratably over their vesting periods. the company uses the black-scholes-merton option-pricing model to estimate the fair value of each option grant as of the date of grant. expected volatilities are based on historical volatility of the company common stock. the expected life of the option is estimated using historical data pertaining to option exercises and employee terminations. separate groups of employees that have similar historical exercise behavior are considered separately for estimating the expected life. the risk-free interest rate is based on u.s. treasury yields in effect at the time of grant. the fair value of restricted stock awards is determined based on the closing price of pca common stock on the grant date. the company generally recognizes compensation expense associated with restricted stock awards ratably over their vesting periods. as pca board of directors has the ability to accelerate the vesting of restricted stock upon an employee retirement, the company accelerates the recognition of compensation expense for certain employees approaching normal retirement age. income taxes pca annual tax rate is determined based on income, statutory tax rates and the tax impacts of items treated differently for tax purposes than for financial reporting purposes. tax law requires some items to be included in the tax return at different times than the items reflected in the financial statements. as a result, the annual tax rate in the financial statements is different than the rate reported on pca tax return. some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in the tax return, and some differences are temporary, reversing over time, such as depreciation expense. these temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. inherent in determining the annual tax rate are judgments regarding business plans, planning opportunities and expectations about future outcomes. significant management judgments are required for the following items: management reviews pca deferred tax assets for realizability. valuation allowances are established when management believes that it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. changes in valuation allowances from period to period are included in the tax provision. pca establishes accruals for uncertain tax contingencies when, despite the belief that pca tax return positions are fully supported, pca believes that an uncertain tax position does not meet the recognition threshold of asc 740, income taxes. the tax contingency accruals are adjusted in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of tax audits, the expiration of the statute of limitations for the relevant taxing authority to examine a tax return, case law and emerging legislation. while it is difficult to predict the final outcome or timing of resolution for any particular tax matter, pca believes that the accruals for uncertain tax contingencies at december 31, 2010 reflect the likely outcome of known tax contingencies as of such date in accordance with uncertain tax positions under asc 740. 29 table of contents reconciliations of non-gaap financial measures to reported amounts operating income, net income and diluted earnings per share excluding special items are non-gaap financial measures. reconciliations of operating income excluding special items to the most comparable measure reported in accordance with gaap for the years ended december 31, 2010 and 2009 are presented below. reconciliations of net income and diluted earnings per share excluding special items to the most comparable measure reported in accordance with gaap for the three months ended december 31, 2010 and for the years ended december 31, 2010 and 2009 are presented below: three months ended december 31, 2010 net income diluted eps (in thousands except per share amounts) as reported in accordance with gaap $ 54,891 $ 0.54 special items: alternative energy tax credits (5,032 ) (0.05 ) asset disposal and facilities closure charges 3,173 0.03 total special items (1,859 ) (0.02 ) excluding special items $ 53,032 $ 0.52 year ended december 31, 2010 2009 income from income from operations net income diluted eps operations net income diluted eps (in thousands except per share amounts) as reported in accordance with gaap $ 185,382 $ 205,435 $ 2.00 $ 352,454 $ 265,895 $ 2.60 special items: alternative energy tax credits 86,804 (47,697 ) (0.46 ) (168,437 ) (171,271 ) (1.67 ) asset disposal and facilities closure charges 13,213 8,557 0.08 1,952 1,240 0.01 total special items 100,017 (39,140 ) (0.38 ) (166,485 ) (170,031 ) (1.66 ) excluding special items $ 285,399 $ 166,295 $ 1.62 $ 185,969 $ 95,864 $ 0.94 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk pca is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and changes in the market value of its financial instruments. pca periodically enters into derivatives in order to minimize these risks, but not for trading purposes. for a discussion of derivatives and hedging activities, see note 9 to pca consolidated financial statement included elsewhere in the report. the interest rates on approximately 84% of pca debt are fixed. a one percent increase in interest rates related to variable rate debt would have resulted in an increase in interest expense and a corresponding decrease in income before taxes of $1.1 million annually. in the event of a change in interest rates, management could take actions to mitigate its exposure to the change. however, due to the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, the sensitivity analysis assumes no changes in pca financial structure.risk factors 9 risk factors some of the statements in this report and, in particular, statements found in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these statements are often identified by the words will, should, anticipate, believe, expect, intend, estimate, hope, or similar expressions. these statements reflect management current views with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. there are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control. these factors, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the factors described below. our actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements, and accordingly, we can give no assurances that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what impact they will have on our results of operations or financial condition. in view of these uncertainties, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. we expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements that have been made to reflect the occurrence of events after the date hereof. 9 table of contents industry risks industry earnings cyclicality imbalances of supply and demand for containerboard could affect the price at which we can sell containerboard and corrugated products, and as a result, could result in lower selling prices and earnings. the price of containerboard could fall if the supply of containerboard available for sale in the market exceeds the demand. the demand for containerboard is driven by market needs for containerboard in the united states and abroad to manufacture corrugated shipping containers. market needs or demand are driven by both global and u.s. business conditions, which severely weakened during the fourth quarter of 2008. if supply exceeds demand, prices for containerboard and corrugated products could decline, resulting in decreased earnings and cash generated from operations. competition the intensity of competition in the containerboard and corrugated packaging industry could result in downward pressure on pricing and volume, which could lower earnings and cash generated from operations. the containerboard and corrugated products industry is highly competitive, with no single containerboard or corrugated packaging producer having a dominant position. containerboard cannot generally be differentiated by producer, which tends to intensify price competition. the corrugated packaging industry is also sensitive to changes in economic conditions, as well as other factors including innovation, design, quality and service. to the extent that one or more competitors are more successful with respect to any key competitive factor, our business could be adversely affected. our products also compete, to some extent, with various other packaging materials, including products made of paper, plastics, wood and various types of metal. the intensity of competition could lead to a reduction in our market share as well as lower sales prices for our products, both of which could reduce our earnings and cash flow. company risks cost of fiber an increase in the cost of fiber could increase our manufacturing costs and lower our earnings. pca has supply agreements at market prices for wood fiber to be consumed at three of our four mills on approximately 359,000 acres of timberland. in addition to these supply agreements, pca also secures wood fiber from various other sources at market prices. pca purchases recycled fiber for use at three of its four containerboard mills. pca currently purchases, net of recycled fiber generated at its box plants, approximately 395,000 tons of recycled fiber per year. the market price of wood fiber varies based upon availability and source. in addition, the increase in demand of products manufactured, in whole or in part, from recycled fiber, on a global basis, has caused an occasional tightening in the supply of recycled fiber. these periods of supply and demand imbalance have tended to create significant price volatility. periods of above average fiber costs and unusual price volatility have occurred in the past and may occur again in the future, which could result in lower or volatile earnings. cost of purchased energy and chemicals an increase in the cost of purchased energy and chemicals could lead to higher manufacturing costs, resulting in reduced earnings. pca has the capability to use various types of purchased fuels in its manufacturing operations, including coal, bark, natural gas and oil. energy prices, in particular prices for oil and natural gas, have fluctuated dramatically in the past and have risen substantially in recent years. in addition, costs for key chemicals used in our manufacturing have risen. these fluctuations impact our manufacturing costs and result in earnings volatility. if energy and chemical prices rise, our production costs will increase, which will lead to higher manufacturing costs and reduced earnings. 10 table of contents material disruption of manufacturing a material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively impact our results of operation and financial condition. our business depends on continuous operation of our facilities, particularly at our mills. any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within such facilities, could cease operations unexpectedly for a long period of time due to a number of events, including unscheduled maintenance outages; prolonged power failures; an equipment failure; explosion of a boiler; labor difficulties; natural catastrophes; terrorism; governmental regulations; and other operational problems. these events could lead to higher costs and reduced earnings. environmental matters pca may incur significant environmental liabilities with respect to both past and future operations. we are subject to, and must comply with, a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws, particularly those relating to air and water quality, waste disposal and the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater. because environmental regulations are constantly evolving, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to maintain compliance with those laws. see item 1. business environmental matters for certain estimates of expenditures we expect to make for environmental compliance in the next few years. although we have established reserves to provide for future environmental liability, these reserves may not be adequate. in addition, enactment of new environmental laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations might require significant expenditures. investment risks market price of our common stock the market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. securities markets worldwide have recently experienced significant price declines and volume fluctuations. this market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. in addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. general risks economic conditions our earnings and cash generated from operations could be significantly lower as a result of the severe and possibly prolonged downturn in the u.s. economy. our operations and financial performance are directly impacted by changes in the u.s. economy, and to a lesser extent, by global economic conditions. the significant downturn in the u.s. economy during the fourth quarter of 2008 significantly lowered the demand for our products. as a result, to balance the production of containerboard at our mills with demand, we reduced our fourth quarter mill production by 90,000 tons and operated our mills at about 85% of capacity. this lower demand and production reduced our revenues, increased our unit production costs, and lowered our earnings and our cash generated from operations. it is uncertain if economic conditions will deteriorate further, or when economic conditions will improve. until economic conditions improve, our operating and financial performance will continue to be adversely impacted. lower earnings and reduced cash flow could impact our ability to fund operations, capital requirements, and common stock dividend payments, and a prolonged and severe downturn could possibly impact our ability to comply with our debt convenants. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 29 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for the impact of changes in interest rates on pca future cash flows. the operating lease commitments, capital commitments, purchase commitments and letters of credit are not reflected on pca consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2008. see notes 8 and 12 to the audited consolidated financial statements for additional information. pca currently does not have any projections for future pension contributions beyond 2009. as of december 31, 2008, the company expected payment for significant contractual obligations excludes $10.4 million of obligations for unrecognized tax benefits because the company cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the period of cash settlement for such liability. see note 14 to the audited consolidated financial statements for additional information. pca primary sources of liquidity are net cash provided by operating activities, borrowings under pca revolving credit facility and additional borrowings under pca receivables credit facility. as of december 31, 2008, pca had $171.6 million in unused borrowing capacity under its existing credit facilities, net of the 23 table of contents impact on this borrowing capacity of $19.4 million of outstanding letters of credit. currently, pca primary uses of cash are for capital expenditures, debt service and declared common stock dividends, which it expects to be able to fund from these sources. the following table provides the outstanding balances and the weighted average interest rates as of december 31, 2008 for pca revolving credit facility, the receivables credit facility and the senior notes: balance at projected annual december 31, weighted average cash interest borrowing arrangement 2008 interest rate payments (dollars in thousands) revolving credit facility $ n/a n/a receivables credit facility 109,000 3.01 $ 3,280 5 3 / 4 % senior notes (due august 1, 2013) 400,000 5.75 23,000 6 1 / 2 % senior notes (due march 15, 2018) 150,000 6.50 9,750 total $ 659,000 5.47 % $ 36,030 the above table excludes unamortized debt discount of $1.6 million at december 31, 2008. it also excludes from the projected annual cash interest payments, the non-cash income from the annual amortization of the $22.8 million received in july 2003 and the non-cash expense from the annual amortization of the $4.4 million paid in march 2008 to settle the treasury locks related to the 5 3 / 4 % senior notes due 2013 and the 6 1 / 2 % senior notes due 2018. the amortization is being recognized over the terms of the 5 3 / 4 % senior notes due 2013 and the 6 1 / 2 % senior notes due 2018 and is included in interest expense, net. the instruments governing pca indebtedness contain financial and other covenants that limit, among other things, the ability of pca and its subsidiaries to: enter into sale and leaseback transactions, incur liens, incur indebtedness at the subsidiary level, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, or merge or consolidate with any other person or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the assets of pca. these limitations could limit corporate and operating activities. in addition, we must maintain minimum net worth and maximum debt to total capitalization and minimum interest coverage ratios under the revolving credit facility. a failure to comply with the restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility could lead to an event of default, which could result in an acceleration of any outstanding indebtedness and/or prohibit us from drawing on the revolving credit facility. such a default may also constitute an event of default under the senior notes indentures and the receivables credit facility. at december 31, 2008, pca was in compliance with these covenants. pca currently expects to incur capital expenditures of $90.0 million in 2009. these expenditures will be used primarily for maintenance capital, cost reduction, business growth and environmental compliance. pca believes that net cash generated from operating activities, available cash reserves and available borrowings under its committed credit facilities and available capital through access to capital markets will be adequate to meet its liquidity and capital requirements, including payments of any declared common stock dividends, for the foreseeable future. as its debt or credit facilities become due, pca will need to repay, extend or replace such facilities, which will be subject to future economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond pca control. 24 table of contents environmental matters we are subject to, and must comply with, a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws, particularly those relating to air and water quality, waste disposal and the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater. the most significant of these laws affecting us are: resource conservation and recovery act (rcra); clean water act (cwa); clean air act (caa); the emergency planning and community right-to-know-act (epcra); toxic substance control act (tsca); and safe drinking water act (sdwa). we believe that we are currently in material compliance with these and all applicable environmental rules and regulations. because environmental regulations are constantly evolving, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to maintain compliance with these and other environmental laws. we work diligently to anticipate and budget for the impact of applicable environmental regulations, and do not currently expect that future environmental compliance obligations will materially affect our business or financial condition. for the year ended december 31, 2008, we spent approximately $23.5 million to comply with the requirements of these and other environmental laws. for the years ended december 31, 2007 and 2006, the costs of environmental compliance were approximately $19.4 million and $17.5 million, respectively. in addition, the cluster rules govern allowable discharges of air and water pollutants at all pulp and paper mill operations, including those at the counce, filer city, valdosta and tomahawk mills. we have completed all of our projects to ensure compliance with the cluster rules and as of this filing, we believe that it is not reasonably possible that future expenditures related to cluster rule compliance will have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. as is the case with any industrial operation, we have, in the past, incurred costs associated with the remediation of soil or groundwater contamination, as required by the federal comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, commonly known as the federal superfund law, and analogous state laws. cleanup requirements arise with respect to properties we currently own or operate, former facilities and off-site facilities where we have disposed of hazardous substances. under the terms of the contribution agreement, pactiv has agreed to retain all liability for all former facilities and all sites associated with pre-closing off-site waste disposal. pactiv has also retained environmentally impaired real property in filer city, michigan unrelated to current mill operations. because liability for remediation costs under environmental laws is strict, meaning that liability is imposed without fault, joint and several, meaning that liability is imposed on each party without regard to contribution, and retroactive, we could receive notifications of cleanup liability in the future and this liability could be material. from 1994 through 2008, remediation costs at our mills and corrugated plants totaled approximately $3.2 million. as of december 31, 2008, we maintained an environmental reserve of $8.3 million relating to on-site landfills and surface impoundments as well as ongoing and anticipated remedial projects. total capital costs for environmental matters were $3.5 million for 2008 and we currently estimate 2009 environmental capital expenditures will be $1.5 million. as of this filing, we believe that it is not reasonably possible that future environmental expenditures above the $8.3 million accrued as of december 31, 2008 will have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. critical accounting policies management discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. the preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, 25 table of contents and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. on an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to bad debts, inventories, goodwill and intangible assets, pensions and other postretirement benefits, income taxes, environmental liabilities, stock based compensation, and contingencies and litigation. we base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. we believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. for a further discussion on the application of these and other accounting policies, see note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. accounts receivable allowance for doubtful accounts and customer deductions we evaluate the collectibility of our accounts receivable based upon a combination of factors. in circumstances where we are aware of a specific customer inability to meet its financial obligations to us (e.g., bankruptcy filings, substantial downgrading of credit sources), we record a specific reserve for bad debts against amounts due to us to reduce the net recorded receivable to the amount we reasonably believe will be collected. for all other customers, we recognize reserves for bad debts consisting of 0.3% for amounts less than 90 days past due their contractual terms and 30% for amounts more than 90 days past due their contractual terms based on our historical collection experience. if our collection experience deteriorates (i.e., higher than expected defaults or an unexpected material adverse change in a major customer ability to meet its financial obligations to us), our estimates of the recoverability of amounts due us could be reduced by a material amount. the customer deductions reserve represents the estimated amount required for customer returns, allowances and earned discounts. based on our experience, customer returns, allowances and earned discounts have averaged 1.0% of our gross selling price. accordingly, we reserve 1.0% of our open customer accounts receivable balance for these items. as of december 31, 2008, the balance in the allowance for doubtful accounts reserve was $4.4 million, compared to $2.9 million at december 31, 2007. bad debt expense in 2008 was $4.2 million, compared to $0.1 million in 2007. the increase in bad debt expense of $4.1 million was primarily attributable to a $2.7 million increase in expense related to customers who had filed for bankruptcy and an increase of $1.1 million reserved for specific customers at the 90% level of their accounts receivable balance as of december 31, 2008. for the year ended december 31, 2007, bad debt expense was $0.1 million compared to $3.2 million in 2006. the decrease of $3.1 million was primarily attributable to a $1.8 million decrease in expense related to customers who had filed for bankruptcy and a decrease of $0.9 million in connection with specific customers that were reserved for at the 90% level of their accounts receivable balance as of december 31, 2007. inventories we record our inventories at the lower of cost or market and include all costs directly associated with manufacturing products: materials, labor and manufacturing overhead. the estimated market value is based on assumptions for future demand and related pricing. if actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, reductions in the carrying value of inventories may be required. raw materials, work in process and finished goods valued using the last-in, first-out ( lifo ) cost method comprised 64% of inventories at current cost at both december 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. supplies and materials inventories are valued using a moving average cost. pension and postretirement benefits the company accounts for defined benefit pension plans and postretirement plans in accordance with sfas no. 87, employers accounting for pensions, sfas no. 106, employers accounting for 26 table of contents postretirement benefits other than pensions and sfas no. 158, employers accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans an amendment of fasb statements no. 87, 88, 106 and 132(r). one of the principal assumptions used to calculate net periodic pension cost is the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets may result in recognized returns that are greater or less than the actual returns on those plan assets in any given year. over time, however, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is designed to approximate the actual long term returns. the discount rate assumptions used to calculate net periodic pension and postretirement costs reflect the rates available on high-quality, fixed-income debt instruments on december 31. the rate of compensation increase is another significant assumption used to calculate net periodic pension cost and is determined by us based upon annual reviews. for postretirement health care plan accounting, we review external data and our own historical trends for health care costs to determine the health care cost trend rate assumption. environmental liabilities pca accounts for its retirement obligations related to its landfills under sfas no. 143, accounting for asset retirement obligations, which requires legal obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets to be recognized at their fair value at the time that the obligations are incurred. upon initial recognition of a liability, that cost is capitalized as part of the related long-lived asset and amortized to expense over the useful life of the asset. the potential costs for various environmental matters are uncertain due to such factors as the unknown magnitude of possible cleanup costs, the complexity and evolving nature of governmental laws and regulations and their interpretations, and the timing, varying costs and effectiveness of alternative cleanup technologies. liabilities recorded for environmental contingencies are estimates of the probable costs based upon available information and assumptions. because of these uncertainties, however, our estimates may change. we believe that any additional costs identified as further information becomes available would not have a material effect on our financial statements. in connection with the sale to pca of the containerboard and corrugated products business of pactiv corporation in april 1999, pactiv agreed to retain all liability for all former facilities and all sites associated with off-site waste disposal prior to april 12, 1999. pactiv also retained the environmental liability for a closed landfill located near the filer city mill. revenue recognition pca recognizes revenue as title to the products is transferred to customers. shipping and handling costs are included in cost of sales. shipping and handling billings to a customer are included in net sales. in addition, pca offers volume rebates to certain of its customers. the total cost of these programs is estimated and accrued as a reduction to net sales at the time of the respective sale. impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets goodwill is tested for impairment annually in the fourth quarter or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may exceed fair value. recoverability of goodwill is determined by comparing the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying value, including goodwill. if the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill is compared to the carrying amount of its goodwill to determine if a write-down to fair value is necessary. long-lived assets other than goodwill are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any long-lived asset may not be fully recoverable. in the event that facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any long-lived assets may be impaired, 27 table of contents an evaluation of recoverability would be performed. if an evaluation were required, the estimated future undiscounted cash flows associated with the asset (or group of assets) would be compared to the asset (or group of assets ) carrying amount to determine if a write-down to fair value is required. stock-based compensation pca measures and records stock-based compensation cost in accordance with sfas no. 123(r), share-based payment. stock compensation cost includes: (a) compensation cost for all share-based payments granted prior to, but not vested as of january 1, 2006, the effective date of sfas no. 123(r), based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the original provisions of sfas no. 123, and (b) compensation cost for all share-based payments granted subsequent to january 1, 2006, based on the grant date fair value estimated in accordance with the provisions of sfas no. 123(r). pca recognizes compensation expense associated with option awards ratably over their vesting periods. the company uses the black-scholes-merton option-pricing model to estimate the fair value of each option grant as of the date of grant. expected volatilities are based on historical volatility of the company common stock. the expected life of the option is estimated using historical data pertaining to option exercises and employee terminations. separate groups of employees that have similar historical exercise behavior are considered separately for estimating the expected life. the risk-free interest rate is based on u.s. treasury yields in effect at the time of grant. the fair value of restricted stock awards is determined based on the closing price of pca common stock on the grant date. the company generally recognizes compensation expense associated with restricted stock awards ratably over their vesting periods. as pca board of directors has the ability to accelerate the vesting of restricted stock upon an employee retirement, the company accelerates the recognition of compensation expense for certain employees approaching normal retirement age. income taxes pca annual tax rate is determined based on income, statutory tax rates and the tax impacts of items treated differently for tax purposes than for financial reporting purposes. tax law requires some items to be included in the tax return at different times than the items reflected in the financial statements. as a result, the annual tax rate in the financial statements is different than the rate reported on pca tax return. some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in the tax return, and some differences are temporary, reversing over time, such as depreciation expense. these temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. inherent in determining the annual tax rate are judgments regarding business plans, planning opportunities and expectations about future outcomes. significant management judgments are required for the following items: management reviews pca deferred tax assets for realizability. valuation allowances are established when management believes that it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. changes in valuation allowances from period to period are included in the tax provision. pca establishes accruals for uncertain tax contingencies when, despite the belief that pca tax return positions are fully supported, pca believes that an uncertain tax position does not meet the recognition threshold of fasb interpretation ( fin ) no. 48, accounting for uncertainty in income taxes. the tax contingency accruals are adjusted in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of tax audits, the expiration of the statute of limitations for the relevant taxing authority to examine a tax return, case law and emerging legislation. while it is difficult to predict the final outcome or timing of resolution for any particular tax matter, pca believes that the accruals for uncertain tax contingencies at december 31, 2008 reflect the likely outcome of known tax contingencies as of such date in accordance with fin no. 48. 28 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk pca is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and changes in the market value of its financial instruments. pca periodically enters into derivatives in order to minimize these risks, but not for trading purposes. on january 17, 2008, in connection with a contemplated issuance of ten-year debt securities in march 2008, pca entered into an interest rate protection agreement with a counterparty to lock in the then current interest rate on ten-year u.s. treasury notes to protect against increases in the ten-year u.s. treasury note rate. this rate served as a reference in determining the interest rate applicable to the ten-year notes due 2018 issued in march 2008. as a result of a decrease in the interest rate on the ten-year u.s. treasury notes between the date of the agreement and the time pca priced its offering of those notes, pca paid $4.4 million to the counterparty on march 25, 2008, the date of settlement. as of december 31, 2008, pca was not a party to any derivative instruments. the interest rates on approximately 84% of pca debt are fixed. a one percent increase in interest rates related to variable rate debt would have resulted in an increase in interest expense and a corresponding decrease in income before taxes of $1.1 million annually. in the event of a change in interest rates, management could take actions to mitigate its exposure to the change. however, due to the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, the sensitivity analysis assumes no changes in pca financial structure.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 24 quantitive and qualitative disclosures about market risk pca is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and changes in the market value of its financial instruments. pca periodically enters into derivatives in order to minimize these risks, but not for trading purposes. pca has interest rate collar agreements that protect against rising interest rates and simultaneously guarantee a minimum interest rate. the notional amount of these collar agreements was $78.8 million and $175.0 million as of december 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. the weighted average floor of the interest rate collar agreements was 4.95% and 5.02% as of december 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. the weighted average ceiling of the interest rate collar agreements was 6.75% and 6.85% as of december 31, 2002 and 2001. the interest rate on approximately 41% and 71% of pca variable-rate debt as of december 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, was capped. pca receives payments under the collar agreements if the applicable interest rate (libor or commercial paper) exceeds the ceiling. correspondingly, pca makes payments under the collar agreements if the applicable interest rate drops below the floor. in both cases, the amounts received or paid are based upon the notional amount and the difference between the actual interest rate and the ceiling or floor rate. at december 31, 2002, the commercial paper based interest rate collar agreement expired. the remaining interest rate collar agreement, with a floor of 4.95%, expires june 30, 2003. as a result of the collar agreements noted above and the interest rate environment, a one percent increase in interest rates would result in an increase in interest expense and a corresponding decrease in income before taxes of approximately $1.1 million and $0.7 million annually for the years ended december 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. as of december 31, 2002 and 2001, the weighted average libor was 1.40% and 1.91%, respectively, and the weighted average commercial paper rate was 1.40% and 1.92%, respectively. the effect of an interest rate change to the fair market value of the outstanding debt is insignificant. this analysis does not consider any other impact on fair market value that could exist in such an interest rate environment. in the event of a change in interest rates, management could take actions to further mitigate its exposure to the change. however, due to the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, the sensitivity analysis assumes no changes in pca financial structure.risk factors 10 risk factors some of the statements in this report and in our 2007 annual report to stockholders, and in particular, statements found in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these statements are often identified by the words "will," "should," "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "hope," or similar expressions. these statements reflect management's current views with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. there are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control. these factors, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the factors described below. our actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements, and accordingly, we can give no assurances that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what impact they will have on our results of operations or financial condition. in view of these uncertainties, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. we expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements that have been made to reflect the occurrence of events after the date hereof. industry risks industry earnings cyclicality imbalances of supply and demand for containerboard affect the price at which we can sell containerboard and, as a result, could result in lower selling prices and earnings. the price of containerboard could fall if the supply of containerboard available for sale in the market exceeds the demand. the demand for containerboard is driven by market needs for containerboard in the united states and abroad to manufacture corrugated shipping containers. market needs or demand are driven by both global and u.s. business conditions. if supply exceeds demand, prices for containerboard could decline, resulting in decreased earnings and cash flow. from time to time, we have taken downtime (or slowbacks) at some of our mills to balance our production of containerboard with the market demand for our containerboard, and we may continue to do so in the future. some of our competitors have also temporarily closed or reduced production at their containerboard mills, some of which could reopen and increase production capacity. this could result in a supply and demand imbalance and cause prices to fall. 10 competition the intensity of competition in the containerboard and corrugated packaging industry combined with the commodity nature of containerboard could result in downward pressure on pricing, which could lower earnings. pca operates in an industry that is highly competitive, with no single containerboard or corrugated packaging producer having a dominant position. containerboard cannot generally be differentiated by producer, which tends to intensify price competition. the corrugated packaging industry is also sensitive to price fluctuations, as well as other factors including innovation, design, quality and service. to the extent that one or more competitors are more successful with respect to any key competitive factor, our business could be adversely affected. our products also compete, to some extent, with various other packaging materials, including products made of paper, plastics, wood and various types of metal. the intensity of containerboard competition and the commodity nature of containerboard, plus the intensity of corrugated packaging competition, could lead to a reduction in our market share as well as lower prices for our products, both of which could reduce our earnings. company risks cost of wood fiber dependence on external wood fiber sources could lead to higher costs and lower earnings for pca. pca has supply agreements at market prices for wood fiber to be consumed at three of our four mills on about 370,000 acres of timberland. in addition to these supply agreements, pca also secures wood fiber from various other sources at market prices. because we do not own any timberlands, we are more vulnerable to changes in availability of wood fiber in areas adjacent to our mills than those of our competitors who do own timberlands in areas adjacent to their mills, and therefore could face higher wood fiber costs than those competitors, both in terms of the cost of the wood fiber itself as well as the transportation costs to get the wood fiber to our mills. the price for wood fiber has historically fluctuated on a cyclical basis and has often depended on a variety of factors over which we have no control, including environmental and conservation regulations, natural disasters and the weather. any increase in wood fiber costs could cause our manufacturing costs to increase and our earnings to decrease to a greater extent than those of our competitors who own their own timberlands. cost of recycled fiber an increase in the cost of recycled fiber could increase our containerboard manufacturing costs and lower our earnings. pca purchases recycled fiber for use at three of its four containerboard mills. pca currently purchases, net of recycled fiber generated at its box plants, approximately 400,000 tons of recycled fiber per year. the increase in demand of products manufactured, in whole or in part, from recycled fiber, on a global basis, has caused an occasional tightening in the supply of recycled fiber. these periods of supply and demand imbalance have tended to create significant price volatility. during 2007, recycled fiber costs increased by 56%, or $40 per ton, compared to 2006, resulting in higher operating costs. periods of above average recycled fiber costs and overall price volatility may continue, which could result in earnings volatility. cost of purchased energy an increase in the cost of purchased energy, particularly natural gas and oil, could lead to higher manufacturing costs, resulting in reduced earnings. pca has the capability to use various types of purchased fuels in its manufacturing operations, including coal, bark, natural gas and oil. energy prices, in particular prices for oil and natural gas, have fluctuated dramatically in the past and have risen substantially in recent years. these fluctuations 11 impact our manufacturing costs and result in earnings volatility. if energy prices rise, our production costs will increase, which will lead to higher manufacturing costs and reduced earnings. material disruption of manufacturing a material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively impact our results of operation and financial condition. our business depends on continuous operation of our facilities, particularly at our mills. any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within an otherwise operational facility, could cease operations unexpectedly due to a number of events, including unscheduled maintenance outages; prolonged power failures; an equipment failure; explosion of a boiler; labor difficulties; natural catastrophes; terrorism; governmental regulations; and other operational problems. for example, we experienced an unplanned 2 1 / 2 day outage at our counce linerboard mill in october 2007, resulting in 11,000 tons of lost production at a cost of approximately $7.4 million ($4.7 million net of tax). in december, we received $2.4 million ($1.5 million net of tax) in business interruption insurance proceeds. any material disruption of a primary facility could lead to higher costs and reduced earnings and harm our ability to produce and sell products and service our customers. environmental matters pca may incur significant environmental liabilities with respect to both past and future operations. we are subject to, and must comply with, a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws, particularly those relating to air and water quality, waste disposal and the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater. because environmental regulations are constantly evolving, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to maintain compliance with those laws. please see item 1. "business environmental matters" for certain estimates of expenditures we expect to make for environmental compliance in the next few years. although we have established reserves to provide for future environmental liability, these reserves may not be adequate. investment risks market price of our common stock the market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. this market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. in addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. risk factors quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 30 quantitive and qualitative disclosures about market risk pca is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and changes in the market value of its financial instruments. pca periodically enters into derivatives in order to minimize these risks, but not for trading purposes. as of december 31, 2007, pca was not a party to any derivative instruments. as the interest rates on approximately 81% of pca's debt are fixed, a one percent increase in interest rates related to variable rate debt would have resulted in an increase in interest expense and a corresponding decrease in income before taxes of $1.3 million annually. in the event of a change in interest rates, management could take actions to mitigate its exposure to the change. however, due to the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, the sensitivity analysis assumes no changes in pca's financial structure. quantitive and qualitative disclosures about market riskrisk factors . 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitive and qualitative disclosures about market risk pca is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and changes in the market value of its financial instruments. pca periodically enters into derivatives in order to minimize these risks, but not for trading purposes. as of december 31, 2005, pca was not party to any derivative instruments. as the interest rates on approximately 79% of pca debt are fixed, a one percent increase in interest rates related to variable rate debt would have resulted in an increase in interest expense and a corresponding decrease in income before taxes of $1.5 million annually for the years ended december 31, 2005 and 2004. as of december 31, 2005 and 2004, the weighted average libor was 4.53% and 2.56%, respectively, and the weighted average commercial paper rate was 4.32% and 2.33%, respectively. in the event of a change in interest rates, management could take actions to mitigate its exposure to the change. however, due to the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, the sensitivity analysis assumes no changes in pca financial structure.risk factors 10 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 30 quantitive and qualitative disclosures about market risk pca is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and changes in the market value of its financial instruments. pca periodically enters into derivatives in order to minimize these risks, but not for trading purposes. as of december 31, 2006, pca was not a party to any derivative instruments. as the interest rates on approximately 80% of pca debt are fixed, a one percent increase in interest rates related to variable rate debt would have resulted in an increase in interest expense and a corresponding decrease in income before taxes of $1.4 million annually. in the event of a change in interest rates, management could take actions to mitigate its exposure to the change. however, due to the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, the sensitivity analysis assumes no changes in pca financial structure.risk factors 9 risk factors some of the statements in this report and, in particular, statements found in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements include statements about our expectations regarding our future earnings and financial condition. these statements are often identified by the words will, should, anticipate, believe, expect, intend, estimate, hope, or similar expressions. these statements reflect management current views with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. there are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control. these factors, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the factors described below. our actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements, and accordingly, we can give no assurances that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what impact they will have on our results of operations or financial condition. in view of these uncertainties, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. we expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements that have been made to reflect the occurrence of events after the date hereof. 9 table of contents industry risks industry cyclicality imbalances of supply and demand for containerboard could affect the price at which we can sell containerboard and corrugated products, and as a result, could result in lower selling prices and earnings. the price of containerboard could fall if the supply of containerboard available for sale in the market exceeds the demand. the demand for containerboard is driven by market needs for containerboard in the united states and abroad to manufacture corrugated shipping containers. market needs or demand are driven by both global and u.s. business conditions. if supply exceeds demand, prices for containerboard and corrugated products could decline, resulting in decreased earnings and cash generated from operations. competition the intensity of competition in the containerboard and corrugated packaging industry could result in downward pressure on pricing and volume, which could lower earnings and cash generated from operations. the containerboard and corrugated products industry is highly competitive, with no single containerboard or corrugated packaging producer having a dominant position. containerboard cannot generally be differentiated by producer, which tends to intensify price competition. the corrugated packaging industry is also sensitive to changes in economic conditions, as well as other factors including innovation, design, quality and service. to the extent that one or more competitors are more successful with respect to any key competitive factor, our business could be adversely affected. our products also compete, to some extent, with various other packaging materials, including products made of paper, plastics, wood and various types of metal. the intensity of competition could lead to a reduction in our market share as well as lower sales prices for our products, both of which could reduce our earnings and cash flow. company risks cost of fiber an increase in the cost of fiber could increase our manufacturing costs and lower our earnings. pca has supply agreements at market prices for wood fiber to be consumed at our counce, tennessee and valdosta, georgia mills on approximately 279,000 acres of timberland. in addition to these supply agreements, pca also secures wood fiber from various other sources at market prices. pca purchases recycled fiber for use at three of its four containerboard mills. pca currently purchases, net of recycled fiber generated at its box plants, approximately 400,000 to 450,000 tons of recycled fiber per year. the amount of recycled fiber purchased each year depends on the prices of both recycled fiber and wood fiber as the company attempts to minimize total fiber costs. the market price of wood fiber varies based upon availability and source. in addition, the increase in demand of products manufactured, in whole or in part, from recycled fiber, on a global basis, has caused an occasional tightening in the supply of recycled fiber. these periods of supply and demand imbalance have tended to create significant price volatility. periods of above average fiber costs and unusual price volatility have occurred in the past and may occur again in the future, which could result in lower or volatile earnings. cost of purchased energy and chemicals an increase in the cost of purchased energy and chemicals could lead to higher manufacturing costs, resulting in reduced earnings. pca has the capability to use various types of purchased fuels in its manufacturing operations, including coal, bark, natural gas and oil. energy prices, in particular prices for oil and natural gas, have fluctuated dramatically in the past. in addition, costs for key chemicals used in our manufacturing have risen. these fluctuations impact our manufacturing costs and result in earnings volatility. if energy and chemical prices rise, our production costs and transportation costs will increase, which will lead to higher manufacturing costs and reduced earnings. 10 table of contents material disruption of manufacturing a material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively impact our results of operation and financial condition. our business depends on continuous operation of our facilities, particularly at our mills. any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within such facilities, could cease operations unexpectedly for a long period of time due to a number of events, including unscheduled maintenance outages; prolonged power failures; an equipment failure; fire; explosion of a boiler; labor difficulties; natural catastrophes; terrorism; governmental regulations; and other operational problems. these events could cause us to be unable to service our customers or lead to higher costs and reduced earnings. environmental matters pca may incur significant environmental liabilities with respect to both past and future operations. we are subject to, and must comply with, a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws, particularly those relating to air and water quality, waste disposal and the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater. because environmental regulations are constantly evolving, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to maintain compliance with those laws. see item 1. business environmental matters for certain estimates of expenditures we expect to make for environmental compliance in the next few years. in addition, environmental regulations may increase the cost of our raw materials and purchased energy. although we have established reserves to provide for known environmental liabilities as of the date of this filing, these reserves may change over time due to the enactment of new environmental laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations, which might require additional significant environmental expenditures. investment risks market price of our common stock the market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. securities markets worldwide periodically experience significant price declines and volume fluctuations. this market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. in addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. general risks economic conditions our earnings and cash generated from operations could be significantly lower if a severe downturn in the u.s. economy occurs again. our operations and financial performance are directly impacted by changes in the u.s. economy, and to a lesser extent, by global economic conditions. the significant downturn in the u.s. economy impacted our industry and pca in late 2008 and continued into 2009, lowering the demand for our products and our mill production. this lower demand and production reduced our revenues, increased our unit production costs, and lowered our earnings and our cash generated from operations during those periods. demand for our products and pca mill production improved during 2010 and continued to improve in 2011. it is unknown whether economic conditions will again deteriorate or continue to improve. in the event that economic conditions deteriorate, our operating and financial performance will be adversely impacted. lower earnings and reduced cash flow could impact our ability to fund operations, capital requirements, and common stock dividend payments, and another prolonged and severe downturn could possibly impact our ability to comply with our debt covenants. 11 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for the impact of changes in interest rates on pca future cash flows. the operating lease commitments, capital commitments, purchase commitments and letters of credit are not reflected on pca consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2011. see notes 8 and 13 to the audited consolidated financial statements for additional information. pca currently does not have any projections for future pension contributions beyond 2011. see note 6 to the audited consolidated financial statements for additional information. as of december 31, 2011, pca expected payment for significant contractual obligations excludes $6.3 million of obligations for uncertain tax positions because pca cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the period of cash settlement for such liability. see note 15 to the audited consolidated financial statements for additional information. pca primary sources of liquidity are net cash provided by operating activities, available borrowing capacity under pca revolving credit facility and additional borrowings under pca receivables credit facility. as of december 31, 2011, pca had $326.7 million in unused borrowing capacity under its existing credit facilities, net of the impact on this borrowing capacity of $14.3 million of outstanding letters of credit. currently, pca primary uses of cash are for operations, capital expenditures, debt service and declared common stock dividends, which it expects to be able to fund from these sources. the following table provides the outstanding balances and the weighted average interest rates as of december 31, 2011 for pca revolving credit facility, the receivables credit facility and the senior notes: borrowing arrangement balance at december 31, 2011 weighted average interest rate projected annual cash interest payments (dollars in thousands) revolving credit facility $ n/a n/a term loan 150,000 2.08 % $ 3,120 receivables credit facility 109,000 1.15 1,254 5 3 / 4 % senior notes (due august 1, 2013) 400,000 5.75 23,000 6 1 / 2 % senior notes (due march 15, 2018) 150,000 6.50 9,750 total $ 809,000 4.59 % $ 37,124 the above table excludes unamortized debt discount of $0.6 million at december 31, 2011. it also excludes from the projected annual cash interest payments, the non-cash income from the annual amortization of the $22.8 million received in july 2003 and the non-cash expense from the annual amortization of the $4.4 million paid in march 2008 to settle the treasury locks related to the 5 3 / 4 % senior notes due 2013 and the 6 1 / 2 % senior notes due 2018. the amortization is being recognized over the terms of the 5 3 / 4 % senior notes due 2013 and the 6 1 / 2 % senior notes due 2018 and is included in interest expense, net. the instruments governing pca indebtedness contain financial and other covenants that limit, among other things, the ability of pca and its subsidiaries to: enter into sale and leaseback transactions, 26 table of contents incur liens, incur indebtedness at the subsidiary level, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, or merge or consolidate with any other person or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the assets of pca. these limitations could limit corporate and operating activities. in addition, pca must maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio under its senior revolving credit facility. a failure to comply with the restrictions contained in the revolving credit facility could lead to an event of default, which could result in an acceleration of any outstanding indebtedness and/or prohibit pca from drawing on the revolving credit facility. such acceleration may also constitute events of default under the senior notes indentures and the receivables credit facility. at december 31, 2011, pca was in compliance with these covenants. pca currently expects to incur capital expenditures of $40.4 million in 2012, primarily for maintenance capital, cost reduction, business growth and environmental compliance. pca believes that net cash generated from operating activities, cash on hand, available borrowings under its committed credit facilities and available capital through access to capital markets will be adequate to meet its liquidity and capital requirements, including payments of any declared common stock dividends, for the foreseeable future. as its debt or credit facilities become due, pca will need to repay, extend or replace such facilities. its ability to do so will be subject to future economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond pca control. environmental matters pca is subject to, and must comply with, a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws, particularly those relating to air and water quality, waste disposal and the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater. the most significant of these laws affecting the company are: resource conservation and recovery act (rcra); clean water act (cwa); clean air act (caa); the emergency planning and community right-to-know-act (epcra); toxic substance control act (tsca); and safe drinking water act (sdwa). pca believes that it is currently in material compliance with these and all applicable environmental rules and regulations. because environmental regulations are constantly evolving, the company has incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to maintain compliance with these and other environmental laws. the company works diligently to anticipate and budget for the impact of applicable environmental regulations, and does not currently expect that future environmental compliance obligations will materially affect its business or financial condition. for the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we spent approximately $26.0 million, $24.6 million and $26.4 million, respectively, to comply with the requirements of these and other environmental laws. 27 table of contents additionally, total capital costs for environmental matters were $2.8 million, $1.1 million and $0.4 million for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and the company currently estimates 2012 environmental capital expenditures will be $1.0 million. as is the case with any industrial operation, pca has, in the past, incurred costs associated with the remediation of soil or groundwater contamination, as required by the federal comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, commonly known as the federal superfund law, and analogous state laws. cleanup requirements arise with respect to properties the company currently owns or operates, former facilities and off-site facilities where the company has disposed of hazardous substances. as part of the sale to pca of the containerboard and corrugated products business of pactiv corporation in april 1999, pactiv agreed to retain all liability for all former facilities and all sites associated with pre-closing off-site waste disposal. pactiv also retained environmentally impaired real property in filer city, michigan unrelated to current mill operations. in 2004, the u.s. environmental protection agency (the epa ) published the boiler mact regulations, establishing air emissions standards and certain other requirements for industrial boilers. these regulations were vacated and remanded by the u.s. court of appeals for the d.c. circuit in 2007. the epa proposed final regulations in march 2011, which would require compliance in 2014. during 2011, the epa determined that it would reconsider certain provisions of the boiler mact regulations and, in december 2011, the epa published proposed rules containing changes to the march 2011 rules. the epa may make further changes to the proposed rules. pca is currently assessing the impact of these regulations on its operations which could require significant modifications to certain of pca boilers. due to the complexity of these regulations, and the potential for additional future regulatory or judicial modification to these regulations, the timing and amount of expenditures to be made by pca are uncertain, but could be significant during the period before compliance is required. because liability for remediation costs under environmental laws is strict, meaning that liability is imposed without fault, joint and several, meaning that liability is imposed on each party without regard to contribution, and retroactive, pca could receive notifications of cleanup liability in the future and this liability could be material. from 1994 through 2011, remediation costs at pca mills and corrugated plants totaled approximately $3.2 million. as of december 31, 2011, pca maintained an environmental reserve of $10.5 million relating to on-site landfills and surface impoundments as well as ongoing and anticipated remedial projects. as of this filing, the company believes that it is not reasonably possible that future environmental expenditures above the $10.5 million accrued as of december 31, 2011 will have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. while legislation regarding the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions has been proposed at the federal level, it is uncertain whether such legislation will be passed and, if so, what the breadth and scope of such legislation will be. the result of the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could be an increase in our future environmental compliance costs, through caps, taxes or additional capital expenditures to modify facilities, which may be material. however, climate change legislation and the resulting future energy policy could also provide us with opportunities if the use of renewable energy is encouraged. we currently generate a significant portion of our power requirements for our mills using bark, black liquor and biomass as fuel, which are derived from renewable resources. our energy optimization projects at the counce and valdosta linerboard mills are expected to significantly reduce the use of fossil fuels at those facilities, while providing more efficient power generation at those facilities. while we believe we are well-positioned to take advantage of any renewable energy incentives, it is uncertain what the ultimate costs and opportunities of any climate change legislation will be and how our business and industry will be affected. critical accounting policies management discussion and analysis of pca financial condition and results of operations are based upon the company consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. the preparation of these financial statements 28 table of contents requires the company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. on an ongoing basis, pca evaluates its estimates, including those related to bad debts, inventories, goodwill and intangible assets, pensions and other postretirement benefits, income taxes, environmental liabilities, stock based compensation, and contingencies and litigation. pca bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. pca believes the following critical accounting policies affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. for a further discussion on the application of these and other accounting policies, see note 2 to its consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. accounts receivable allowance for doubtful accounts and customer deductions pca evaluates the collectibility of its accounts receivable based upon a combination of factors. in circumstances where the company is aware of a specific customer inability to meet its financial obligations (e.g., bankruptcy filings, substantial downgrading of credit sources), pca records a specific reserve for bad debts against amounts due to reduce the net recorded receivable to the amount the company reasonably believes will be collected. for all other customers, the company recognizes reserves for bad debts based on its historical collection experience. if the company collection experience deteriorates (i.e., higher than expected defaults or an unexpected material adverse change in a major customer ability to meet its financial obligations), pca estimates of the recoverability of amounts due could be reduced by a material amount. the customer deductions reserve represents the estimated amount required for customer returns, allowances and earned discounts. based on pca experience, customer returns, allowances and earned discounts have averaged 1.0% of its gross selling price. accordingly, the company reserves 1.0% of its open customer accounts receivable balance for these items. as of december 31, 2011, the balance in the allowance for doubtful accounts reserve was $1.9 million, compared to $2.5 million at december 31, 2010. for the year ended december 31, 2011, the company recorded expense related to doubtful accounts of $0.1 million compared to income of $0.9 million recorded during the year ended december 31, 2010. the income in 2010 of $0.9 million was primarily due to a $1.0 million reduction in the allowance for doubtful accounts reserve to reflect the low level of actual losses over the previous three years. for the year ended december 31, 2010, the company recorded income of $0.9 million related to doubtful accounts compared to expense of $1.5 million in 2009. the decrease in bad debt expense of $2.4 million between 2009 and 2010 was primarily due to a $1.0 million reduction in the allowance for doubtful accounts reserve to reflect the low level of actual losses over the previous three years and a $0.9 million decrease in expense related to customers who had filed for bankruptcy protection. inventories pca records its inventories at the lower of cost or market and includes all costs directly associated with manufacturing products: materials, labor and manufacturing overhead. the estimated market value is based on assumptions for future demand and related pricing. if actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, reductions in the carrying value of inventories may be required. raw materials, work in process and finished goods valued using the last-in, first-out ( lifo ) cost method comprised 61% and 65% of inventories at current cost at december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. supplies and materials inventories are valued using a moving average cost. 29 table of contents pension and postretirement benefits the company accounts for defined benefit pension plans and postretirement plans in accordance with accounting standards codification ( asc ) 715, compensation retirement benefits. one of the principal assumptions used to calculate net periodic pension cost is the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets may result in recognized returns that are greater or less than the actual returns on those plan assets in any given year. over time, however, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is designed to approximate the actual long term returns. the discount rate assumptions used to calculate net periodic pension and postretirement costs reflect the rates available on high-quality, fixed-income debt instruments on december 31. the rate of compensation increase is another significant assumption used to calculate net periodic pension cost and is determined by pca based upon annual reviews. for postretirement health care plan accounting, pca reviews external data and its own historical trends for health care costs to determine the health care cost trend rate assumption. environmental liabilities pca accounts for its retirement obligations related to its landfills under asc 410, asset retirement and environmental obligations, which requires legal obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets to be recognized at their fair value at the time that the obligations are incurred. upon initial recognition of a liability, that cost is capitalized as part of the related long-lived asset and amortized to expense over the useful life of the asset. the potential costs for various environmental matters are uncertain due to such factors as the unknown magnitude of possible cleanup costs, the complexity and evolving nature of governmental laws and regulations and their interpretations, and the timing, varying costs and effectiveness of alternative cleanup technologies. liabilities recorded for environmental contingencies are estimates of the probable costs based upon available information and assumptions. because of these uncertainties, however, the company estimates may change. pca believes that any additional costs identified as further information becomes available would not have a material effect on its financial statements. in connection with the sale to pca of the containerboard and corrugated products business of pactiv corporation in april 1999, pactiv agreed to retain all liability for all former facilities and all sites associated with off-site waste disposal prior to april 12, 1999. pactiv also retained the environmental liability for a closed landfill located near the filer city mill. revenue recognition pca recognizes revenue as title to the products is transferred to customers. shipping and handling costs are included in cost of sales. shipping and handling billings to a customer are included in net sales. in addition, pca offers volume rebates to certain of its customers. the total cost of these programs is estimated and accrued as a reduction to net sales at the time of the respective sale. impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets goodwill is tested for impairment annually at year end or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may exceed fair value. recoverability of goodwill is determined by comparing the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying value, including goodwill. if the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill is compared to the carrying amount of its goodwill to determine if a write-down to fair value is necessary. 30 table of contents long-lived assets other than goodwill are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any long-lived asset may not be fully recoverable. in the event that facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any long-lived assets may be impaired, an evaluation of recoverability would be performed. if an evaluation were required, the estimated future undiscounted cash flows associated with the asset (or group of assets) would be compared to the asset (or group of assets ) carrying amount to determine if a write-down to fair value is required. stock-based compensation pca measures and records stock-based compensation cost in accordance with asc 718, compensation stock compensation. stock compensation cost includes: (a) compensation cost for all share-based payments granted prior to, but not vested as of january 1, 2006, the effective date of asc 718, and (b) compensation costs for all share-based payments granted subsequent to january 1, 2006. the grant date fair value is estimated in accordance with the provisions of asc 718. pca recognizes compensation expense associated with option awards ratably over their vesting periods. the company uses the black-scholes-merton option-pricing model to estimate the fair value of each option grant as of the date of grant. expected volatilities are based on historical volatility of the company common stock. the expected life of the option is estimated using historical data pertaining to option exercises and employee terminations. separate groups of employees that have similar historical exercise behavior are considered separately for estimating the expected life. the risk-free interest rate is based on u.s. treasury yields in effect at the time of grant. the fair value of restricted stock awards is determined based on the closing price of pca common stock on the grant date. the company generally recognizes compensation expense associated with restricted stock awards ratably over their vesting periods. as pca board of directors has the ability to accelerate the vesting of restricted stock upon an employee retirement, the company accelerates the recognition of compensation expense for certain employees approaching normal retirement age. income taxes pca annual tax rate is determined based on income, statutory tax rates and the tax impacts of items treated differently for tax purposes than for financial reporting purposes. tax law requires some items to be included in the tax return at different times than the items reflected in the financial statements. as a result, the annual tax rate in the financial statements is different than the rate reported on pca tax return. some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in the tax return, and some differences are temporary, reversing over time, such as depreciation expense. these temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. inherent in determining the annual tax rate are judgments regarding business plans, planning opportunities and expectations about future outcomes. significant management judgments are required for the following items: management reviews pca deferred tax assets for realizability. valuation allowances are established when management believes that it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. changes in valuation allowances from period to period are included in the tax provision. pca establishes accruals for uncertain tax contingencies when, despite the belief that pca tax return positions are fully supported, pca believes that an uncertain tax position does not meet the recognition threshold of asc 740, income taxes. the tax contingency accruals are adjusted in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of tax audits, the expiration of the statute of limitations for the relevant taxing authority to examine a tax return, case law and emerging legislation. while it is difficult to predict the final outcome or timing of resolution for any particular tax matter, pca believes that the accruals for uncertain tax contingencies at december 31, 2011 reflect the likely outcome of known tax contingencies as of such date in accordance with uncertain tax positions under asc 740. 31 table of contents reconciliations of non-gaap financial measures to reported amounts income from operations, net income and diluted earnings per share excluding special items are non-gaap financial measures. management presents income from operations, net income and diluted earnings per share excluding these special items to focus on pca on-going operations and assess its operating performance and believes that these measures provide useful information to investors because they enable them to perform meaningful comparisons of past and present operating results. reconciliations of those non-gaap measures to the most comparable measure reported in accordance with gaap for the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 follow: year ended december 31, 2011 2010 2009 income from operations net income diluted eps income from operations net income diluted eps income from operations net income diluted eps (in thousands except per share amounts) as reported in accordance with gaap $ 272,749 $ 158,027 $ 1.57 $ 185,382 $ 205,435 $ 2.00 $ 352,454 $ 265,895 $ 2.60 special items: medical benefits reserve adjustment (1,600 ) (1,016 ) (0.01 ) alternative energy tax credits 86,804 (47,697 ) (0.46 ) (168,437 ) (171,271 ) (1.67 ) asset disposal and facilities closure charges 7,406 (a) 4,783 0.05 13,213 (a) 8,557 0.08 1,952 (a) 1,240 0.01 total special items 5,806 3,767 0.04 100,017 (39,140 ) (0.38 ) (166,485 ) (170,031 ) (1.66 ) excluding special items $ 278,555 $ 161,794 $ 1.61 $ 285,399 $ 166,295 $ 1.62 $ 185,969 $ 95,864 $ 0.94 (a) consists of energy project related disposals in 2011 and 2009. for 2010, consists of energy project related disposals ($6.2 million), plant closures ($4.2 million) and other assets no longer in service ($2.8 million). item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk pca is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and changes in the market value of its financial instruments. pca periodically enters into derivatives in order to minimize these risks, but not for trading purposes. for a discussion of derivatives and hedging activities, see note 9 to pca consolidated financial statement included elsewhere in the report. the interest rates on approximately 68% of pca debt are fixed. a one percent increase in interest rates related to variable rate debt would have resulted in an increase in interest expense and a corresponding decrease in income before taxes of $2.6 million annually. in the event of a change in interest rates, management could take actions to mitigate its exposure to the change. however, due to the uncertainty of the specific actions that would be taken and their possible effects, the sensitivity analysis assumes no changes in pca financial structure.risk factors 8 risk factors some of the statements in this report and, in particular, statements found in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, that are not historical in nature are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements include statements about our expectations regarding our future liquidity, earnings, expenditures and financial condition. these statements are often identified by the words will, should, anticipate, believe, expect, intend, estimate, hope, or similar expressions. these statements reflect management current views with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. there are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control. these factors, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the factors described below. our actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements, and accordingly, we can give no assurances that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what impact they will have on our results of operations or financial condition. in view of these uncertainties, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. we expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements that have been made to reflect the occurrence of events after the date hereof. industry risks industry cyclicality imbalances of supply and demand for containerboard could affect the price at which we can sell containerboard and corrugated products, and as a result, could result in lower selling prices and earnings. the price of containerboard could fall if the supply of containerboard available for sale in the market exceeds the demand. the demand for containerboard is driven by market needs for containerboard in the united states and abroad to manufacture corrugated shipping containers. market needs or demand are driven by both global and u.s. business conditions. if supply exceeds demand, prices for containerboard and corrugated products could decline, resulting in decreased earnings and cash generated from operations. 8 table of contents competition the intensity of competition in the containerboard and corrugated packaging industry could result in downward pressure on pricing and volume, which could lower earnings and cash generated from operations. the containerboard and corrugated products industry is highly competitive, with no single containerboard or corrugated packaging producer having a dominant position. containerboard cannot generally be differentiated by producer, which tends to intensify price competition. the corrugated packaging industry is also sensitive to changes in economic conditions, as well as other factors including innovation, design, quality and service. to the extent that one or more competitors are more successful than we are with respect to any key competitive factor, our business could be adversely affected. our products also compete, to some extent, with various other packaging materials, including products made of paper, plastics, wood and various types of metal. the intensity of competition could lead to a reduction in our market share as well as lower sales prices for our products, both of which could reduce our earnings and cash flow. company risks cost of fiber an increase in the cost of fiber could increase our manufacturing costs and lower our earnings. pca has supply agreements at market prices for wood fiber to be consumed at our counce, tennessee and valdosta, georgia mills on approximately 318,000 acres of timberland. in addition to these supply agreements, pca also secures wood fiber from various other sources at market prices. the market price of wood fiber varies based upon availability, source and the costs of fuels used in the harvesting and transportation of wood fiber. the cost and availability of wood fiber can also be impacted by weather and general logging conditions. pca purchases recycled fiber for use at three of its four containerboard mills. pca currently purchases, net of recycled fiber generated at its box plants, 350,000 to 450,000 tons of recycled fiber per year. the amount of recycled fiber purchased each year varies based upon production and the prices of both recycled fiber and wood fiber. the increase in demand of products manufactured, in whole or in part, from recycled fiber, on a global basis, has caused an occasional tightening in the supply of recycled fiber. these periods of supply and demand imbalance have tended to create significant price volatility. periods of higher recycled fiber costs and unusual price volatility have occurred in the past and may occur again in the future, which could result in lower or volatile earnings. cost of purchased energy and chemicals an increase in the cost of purchased energy and chemicals could lead to higher manufacturing costs, resulting in reduced earnings. pca has the capability to use various types of purchased fuels in its manufacturing operations, including coal, bark, natural gas and oil. energy prices, in particular prices for oil and natural gas, have fluctuated dramatically in the past. new and more stringent environmental regulations may discourage, or make more expensive, the use of certain fuels. in addition, costs for key chemicals used in our manufacturing also fluctuate. these fluctuations impact our manufacturing costs and result in earnings volatility. if energy and chemical prices rise, our production costs and transportation costs will increase, which will lead to higher manufacturing costs and reduced earnings. 9 table of contents material disruption of manufacturing a material disruption at one of our manufacturing facilities could prevent us from meeting customer demand, reduce our sales and/or negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. our business depends on continuous operation of our facilities, particularly at our mills. any of our manufacturing facilities, or any of our machines within such facilities, could cease operations unexpectedly for a long period of time due to a number of events, including unscheduled maintenance outages; prolonged power failures; an equipment failure; fire; explosion of a boiler; labor difficulties; natural catastrophes; terrorism; governmental regulations; and other operational problems. these events could cause us to be unable to service our customers and lead to higher costs and reduced earnings. environmental matters pca may incur significant environmental liabilities with respect to both past and future operations. we are subject to, and must comply with, a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws, particularly those relating to air and water quality, waste disposal and the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater. because environmental regulations are constantly evolving, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to maintain compliance with those laws. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations environmental matters for certain estimates of expenditures we expect to make for environmental compliance in the next few years. new and more stringent environmental regulations, including new u.s. environmental protection agency rules relating to industrial boiler emissions known as the boiler mact rules, are expected to require us to incur significant additional capital expenditures to modify or replace certain of our boilers. in addition, environmental regulations may increase the cost of our raw materials and purchased energy. although we have established reserves to provide for known environmental liabilities as of the date of this filing, these reserves may change over time due to the enactment of new environmental laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations, which might require additional significant environmental expenditures. investment risks market price of our common stock the market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of your investment to decline. securities markets worldwide periodically experience significant price declines and volume fluctuations. this market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could reduce the market price of our common stock in spite of our operating performance. in addition, our operating results could be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and in response, the market price of our common stock could decrease significantly. general risks economic conditions our earnings and cash generated from operations could be lower if the economy weakens. our operations and financial performance are directly impacted by changes in the u.s. economy, and to a lesser extent, by global economic conditions. a weakening in the economy could reduce the demand for our products and ultimately lower our earnings and cash flows. lower earnings and reduced cash flow could impact our ability to fund operations, capital requirements, and common stock dividend payments. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk for the impact of changes in interest rates on pca future cash flows. the operating lease commitments, capital commitments, purchase commitments and letters of credit are not reflected on pca consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2012. see note 8 debt and note 12 commitments and contingencies in the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information. pca is not required to make any pension plan contributions in 2013 under the moving ahead for progress in the 21 st century act that was enacted in 2012 which, among other items, provided companies with some 23 table of contents pension funding relief. pca currently does not have any projections for future pension contributions beyond 2013. see note 6 employee benefit plans and other postretirement benefits in the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information. as of december 31, 2012, pca had $111.3 million of obligations for gross unrecognized tax benefits and an additional $2.6 million for gross interest and penalties classified as noncurrent liabilities. at this time, pca is unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years in connection with these tax liabilities; therefore, such amounts are not included in the above contractual obligations table. see note 14 income taxes in the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information. pca primary sources of liquidity are net cash provided by operating activities, available borrowing capacity under pca revolving credit facility and additional borrowings under pca receivables credit facility. as of december 31, 2012, pca had $327.3 million in unused borrowing capacity under its existing credit facilities, net of the impact on this borrowing capacity of $13.7 million of outstanding letters of credit. currently, pca primary uses of cash are for operations, capital expenditures, debt service and declared common stock dividends, which it expects to be able to fund from these sources. the following table provides the outstanding balances, excluding unamortized debt discount, and the weighted average interest rates as of december 31, 2012 for pca senior credit facility, the receivables credit facility and the senior notes: borrowing arrangement balance at december 31, 2012 weighted average interest rate projected annual cash interest payments (dollars in thousands) revolving credit facility $ n/a n/a term loan 135,000 1.71 % $ 2,311 receivables credit facility 109,000 1.06 1,154 6.50% senior notes (due march 15, 2018) 150,000 6.50 9,750 3.90% senior notes (due june 15, 2022) 400,000 3.90 15,600 total $ 794,000 3.63 % $ 28,815 the above table excludes the annual non-cash interest expense of $5.7 million from the amortization of the treasury locks over the terms for both the 6.50% senior notes due in 2018 and the 3.90% senior notes due in 2022. the instruments governing pca indebtedness contain financial and other covenants that limit, among other things, the ability of pca and its subsidiaries to: enter into sale and leaseback transactions, incur liens, incur indebtedness at the subsidiary level, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, or merge or consolidate with any other person or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the assets of pca. these limitations could limit corporate and operating activities. in addition, pca must maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio under its senior credit facility. a failure to comply with the restrictions contained in the senior credit facility could lead to an event of default, which could result in an acceleration of any outstanding indebtedness and/or prohibit pca 24 table of contents from drawing on its senior credit facility. such acceleration may also constitute events of default under the senior notes indentures and the receivables credit facility. at december 31, 2012, pca was in compliance with these covenants. pca currently expects to incur normal capital expenditures of about $125.0 million in 2013, primarily for maintenance capital, cost reduction, business growth and environmental compliance, plus $50.0 million for either box plant acquisitions or strategic investments in our existing box plants. pca believes that net cash generated from operating activities, cash on hand, available borrowings under its committed credit facilities and available capital through access to capital markets will be adequate to meet its liquidity and capital requirements, including payments of any declared common stock dividends, for the foreseeable future. as its debt or credit facilities become due, pca will need to repay, extend or replace such facilities. its ability to do so will be subject to future economic conditions and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond pca control. environmental matters pca is subject to, and must comply with, a variety of federal, state and local environmental laws, particularly those relating to air and water quality, waste disposal and the cleanup of contaminated soil and groundwater. the most significant of these laws affecting the company are: resource conservation and recovery act (rcra); clean water act (cwa); clean air act (caa); the emergency planning and community right-to-know-act (epcra); toxic substance control act (tsca); and safe drinking water act (sdwa). pca believes that it is currently in material compliance with these and all applicable environmental rules and regulations. because environmental regulations are constantly evolving, the company has incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to maintain compliance with these and other environmental laws. the company works diligently to anticipate and budget for the impact of applicable environmental regulations, and does not currently expect that future environmental compliance obligations will materially affect its business or financial condition. for the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, we spent $25.8 million, $26.0 million and $24.6 million, respectively, to comply with the requirements of these and other environmental laws. as is the case with any industrial operation, pca has, in the past, incurred costs associated with the remediation of soil or groundwater contamination, as required by the federal comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act, commonly known as the federal superfund law, and analogous state laws. cleanup requirements arise with respect to properties the company currently owns or operates, former facilities and off-site facilities where the company has disposed of hazardous substances. as part of the sale to pca of the containerboard and corrugated products business of pactiv corporation in april 1999, pactiv agreed to retain all liability for all former facilities and all sites associated with pre-closing off-site waste disposal. pactiv also retained environmentally impaired real property in filer city, michigan unrelated to current mill operations. in 2004, the u.s. environmental protection agency (the epa ) published the boiler mact regulations, establishing air emissions standards and certain other requirements for industrial boilers. these regulations were vacated and remanded by the u.s. court of appeals for the d.c. circuit in 2007. the epa proposed final regulations in march 2011, and concurrently announced its intent to reconsider certain provisions of the final rule. in december 2011, the epa published proposed rules containing changes to the march 2011 rules and 25 table of contents requested public comment on several of the rule revisions. after reviewing public comments, the epa published a revised final rule in january 2013. the january 2013 rule establishes a three year deadline for compliance which states are authorized to extend by an additional year if they so elect. pca is currently assessing the impact of these regulations, which are expected to require modifications to or replacement of certain of pca boilers. pca currently estimates that compliance with the final rule will require capital expenditures between $45.0 million and $55.0 million over the next three years. due to the complexity of these regulations, and the potential for additional future regulatory or judicial modification to these regulations, this estimate is subject to further revisions. we currently estimate capital expenditures to comply with boiler mact regulations in 2013 of up to $10.0 million and expect other environmental capital expenditures of about $2.0 million in 2013. total capital expenditures for environmental matters were $1.8 million, $2.8 million and $1.1 million for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. because liability for remediation costs under environmental laws is strict, meaning that liability is imposed without fault, joint and several, meaning that liability is imposed on each party without regard to contribution, and retroactive, pca could receive notifications of cleanup liability in the future and this liability could be material. from 1994 through 2012, remediation costs at pca mills and corrugated plants totaled approximately $3.2 million. as of december 31, 2012, pca maintained an environmental reserve of $11.7 million relating to on-site landfills and surface impoundments as well as ongoing and anticipated remedial projects. as of this filing, the company believes that it is not reasonably possible that future environmental expenses above the $11.7 million accrued as of december 31, 2012 will have a material impact on its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. while legislation regarding the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions has been proposed at the federal level, it is uncertain whether such legislation will be passed and, if so, what the breadth and scope of such legislation will be. the result of the regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could be an increase in our future environmental compliance costs, through caps, taxes or additional capital expenditures to modify facilities, which may be material. however, climate change legislation and the resulting future energy policy could also provide us with opportunities if the use of renewable energy is encouraged. we currently generate a significant portion of our power requirements for our mills using bark, black liquor and biomass as fuel, which are derived from renewable resources. while we believe we are well-positioned to take advantage of any renewable energy incentives, it is uncertain what the ultimate costs and opportunities of any climate change legislation will be and how our business and industry will be affected. critical accounting policies management discussion and analysis of pca financial condition and results of operations are based upon the company consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america. the preparation of these financial statements requires the company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. on an ongoing basis, pca evaluates its estimates, including those related to bad debts, inventories, goodwill and intangible assets, pensions and other postretirement benefits, income taxes, environmental liabilities, stock based compensation, and contingencies and litigation. pca bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. pca believes the following critical accounting policies affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. for a further discussion on the application of these and other accounting policies, see note 2 summary of significant accounting policies in the notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. 26 table of contents accounts receivable allowance for doubtful accounts and customer deductions pca evaluates the collectibility of its accounts receivable based upon a combination of factors. in circumstances where the company is aware of a specific customer inability to meet its financial obligations (e.g., bankruptcy filings, substantial downgrading of credit sources), pca records a specific reserve for bad debts against amounts due to reduce the net recorded receivable to the amount the company reasonably believes will be collected. for all other customers, the company recognizes reserves for bad debts based on its historical collection experience. if the company collection experience deteriorates (i.e., higher than expected defaults or an unexpected material adverse change in a major customer ability to meet its financial obligations), pca estimates of the recoverability of amounts due could be reduced by a material amount. the customer deductions reserve represents the estimated amount required for customer returns, allowances and earned discounts. based on pca experience, customer returns, allowances and earned discounts have averaged 1.0% of its gross selling price. accordingly, the company reserves 1.0% of its open customer accounts receivable balance for these items. as of december 31, 2012, the balance in the allowance for doubtful accounts reserve was $1.9 million, which was unchanged compared to the december 31, 2011 reserve. for the year ended december 31, 2012, the company recorded expense related to doubtful accounts of $1.0 million compared to expense of $0.1 million recorded during the year ended december 31, 2011. the increase in bad debt expense of $0.9 million was due to expense from customers who had filed for bankruptcy or had liquidated. for the year ended december 31, 2011, the company recorded expense of $0.1 million related to doubtful accounts compared to income of $0.9 million in 2010. the income in 2010 of $0.9 million was primarily due to a $1.0 million reduction in the allowance for doubtful accounts reserve to reflect the low level of actual losses over the previous three years. inventories pca records its inventories at the lower of cost or market and includes all costs directly associated with manufacturing products: materials, labor and manufacturing overhead. the estimated market value is based on assumptions for future demand and related pricing. if actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, reductions in the carrying value of inventories may be required. raw materials, work in process and finished goods valued using the last-in, first-out ( lifo ) cost method comprised 58% and 61% of inventories at current cost at december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. supplies and materials inventories are valued using a moving average cost. pension and postretirement benefits the company accounts for defined benefit pension plans and postretirement plans in accordance with accounting standards codification ( asc ) 715, compensation retirement benefits. one of the principal assumptions used to calculate net periodic pension cost is the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets may result in recognized returns that are greater or less than the actual returns on those plan assets in any given year. over time, however, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is designed to approximate the actual long term returns. the discount rate assumptions used to calculate net periodic pension and postretirement costs reflect the rates available on high-quality, fixed-income debt instruments on december 31. the rate of compensation increase is another significant assumption used to calculate net periodic pension cost and is determined by pca based upon annual reviews. for postretirement health care plan accounting, pca reviews external data and its own historical trends for health care costs to determine the health care cost trend rate assumption. 27 table of contents environmental liabilities pca accounts for its retirement obligations related to its landfills under asc 410, asset retirement and environmental obligations, which requires legal obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets to be recognized at their fair value at the time that the obligations are incurred. upon initial recognition of a liability, that cost is capitalized as part of the related long-lived asset and amortized to expense over the useful life of the asset. the potential costs for various environmental matters are uncertain due to such factors as the unknown magnitude of possible cleanup costs, the complexity and evolving nature of governmental laws and regulations and their interpretations, and the timing, varying costs and effectiveness of alternative cleanup technologies. liabilities recorded for environmental contingencies are estimates of the probable costs based upon available information and assumptions. because of these uncertainties, however, the company estimates may change. pca believes that any additional costs identified as further information becomes available would not have a material effect on its financial statements. in connection with the sale to pca of the containerboard and corrugated products business of pactiv corporation in april 1999, pactiv agreed to retain all liability for all former facilities and all sites associated with off-site waste disposal prior to april 12, 1999. pactiv also retained the environmental liability for a closed landfill located near the filer city mill. revenue recognition pca recognizes revenue as title to the products is transferred to customers. shipping and handling costs are included in cost of sales. shipping and handling billings to a customer are included in net sales. in addition, pca offers volume rebates to certain of its customers. the total cost of these programs is estimated and accrued as a reduction to net sales at the time of the respective sale. impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets goodwill is tested for impairment annually at year end or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may exceed fair value. recoverability of goodwill is determined by comparing the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying value, including goodwill. if the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill is compared to the carrying amount of its goodwill to determine if a write-down to fair value is necessary. long-lived assets other than goodwill are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any long-lived asset may not be fully recoverable. in the event that facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of any long-lived assets may be impaired, an evaluation of recoverability would be performed. if an evaluation were required, the estimated future undiscounted cash flows associated with the asset (or group of assets) would be compared to the asset (or group of assets ) carrying amount to determine if a write-down to fair value is required. stock-based compensation pca measures and records stock-based compensation cost in accordance with asc 718, compensation stock compensation. stock compensation cost includes: (a) compensation cost for all share-based payments granted prior to, but not vested as of january 1, 2006, the effective date of asc 718, and (b) compensation costs for all share-based payments granted subsequent to january 1, 2006. the grant date fair value is estimated in accordance with the provisions of asc 718. pca recognizes compensation expense associated with option awards ratably over their vesting periods. the company uses the black-scholes-merton option-pricing model to estimate the fair value of each option grant as of the date of grant. expected volatilities are based on historical volatility of the company common stock. the expected life of the option is estimated using historical data pertaining to option exercises and 28 table of contents employee terminations. separate groups of employees that have similar historical exercise behavior are considered separately for estimating the expected life. the risk-free interest rate is based on u.s. treasury yields in effect at the time of grant. the company has not granted any option awards since 2007. the fair value of restricted stock awards is determined based on the closing price of pca common stock on the grant date. the company generally recognizes compensation expense associated with restricted stock awards ratably over their vesting periods. as pca board of directors has the ability to accelerate the vesting of restricted stock upon an employee retirement, the company accelerates the recognition of compensation expense for certain employees approaching normal retirement age. income taxes pca annual tax rate is determined based on income, statutory tax rates and the tax impacts of items treated differently for tax purposes than for financial reporting purposes. tax law requires some items to be included in the tax return at different times than the items reflected in the financial statements. as a result, the annual tax rate in the financial statements is different than the rate reported on pca tax return. some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in the tax return, and some differences are temporary, reversing over time, such as depreciation expense. these temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. inherent in determining the annual tax rate are judgments regarding business plans, planning opportunities and expectations about future outcomes. significant management judgments are required for the following items: management reviews pca deferred tax assets for realizability. valuation allowances are established when management believes that it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. changes in valuation allowances from period to period are included in the tax provision. pca establishes accruals for unrecognized tax benefits when, despite the belief that pca tax return positions are fully supported, pca believes that an uncertain tax position does not meet the recognition threshold of asc 740, income taxes. the tax contingency accruals are adjusted in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the progress of tax audits, the expiration of the statute of limitations for the relevant taxing authority to examine a tax return, case law and emerging legislation. while it is difficult to predict the final outcome or timing of resolution for any particular tax matter, pca believes that the accruals for unrecognized tax benefits at december 31, 2012 reflect the likely outcome of known tax contingencies as of such date in accordance with accounting for uncertainty in income taxes under asc 740. 29 table of contents reconciliations of non-gaap financial measures to reported amounts income from operations, net income and diluted earnings per share excluding special items are non-gaap financial measures. management presents income from operations, net income and diluted earnings per share excluding these special items to focus on pca on-going operations and assess its operating performance and believes that these measures provide useful information to investors because they enable them to perform meaningful comparisons of past and present operating results. reconciliations of those non-gaap measures to the most comparable measure reported in accordance with gaap for the three months ended december 31, 2012 and the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 follow: three months ended december 31, 2012 income from operations net income diluted eps (in thousands except per share amounts) as reported in accordance with gaap $ 98,419 $ 61,031 $ 0.63 special items: state income tax adjustments (3,393 ) (0.03 ) facility closure charges 1,961 1,358 0.01 total special items 1,961 (2,035 ) (0.02 ) excluding special items $ 100,380 $ 58,996 $ 0.61 year ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 income from operations net income diluted eps income from operations net income diluted eps income from operations net income diluted eps (in thousands except per share amounts) as reported in accordance with gaap $ 443,459 $ 163,820 $ 1.68 $ 272,749 $ 158,027 $ 1.57 $ 185,382 $ 205,435 $ 2.00 special items: state income tax adjustments (3,393 ) (0.03 ) debt refinancing charges 10 15,952 (a) 0.16 medical benefits reserve adjustment (1,600 ) (1,016 ) (0.01 ) biofuel tax credits (95,500 ) 23,012 0.24 86,804 (47,697 ) (0.46 ) asset disposal and facilities closure charges 1,961 (b) 1,358 0.01 7,406 (b) 4,783 0.05 13,213 (b) 8,557 0.08 total special items (93,529 ) 36,929 0.38 5,806 3,767 0.04 100,017 (39,140 ) (0.38 ) excluding special items $ 349,930 $ 200,749 $ 2.06 $ 278,555 $ 161,794 $ 1.61 $ 285,399 $ 166,295 $ 1.62 (a) consists of after-tax charges related to the company refinancing of debt completed in 2012, including the redemption premium ($13.6 million), the charge to settle the treasury lock prior to its maturity ($2.3 million), and other items ($0.1 million). (b) consists of plant closure charges in 2012 and energy project related disposals in 2011. for 2010, consists of energy project related disposals ($6.2 million), plant closures ($4.2 million) and other assets no longer in service ($2.8 million). 30 table of contents item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk pca is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and changes in the market value of its financial instruments. pca periodically enters into derivatives in order to minimize these risks, but not for trading purposes. for a discussion of derivatives and hedging activities, see note 9 derivative instruments and hedging activities to the notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in the report. the interest rates on approximately 69% of pca debt are fixed. a one percent increase in interest rates related to variable rate debt would have resulted in an increase in interest expense and a corresponding decrease in income before taxes of $2.4 million annually.risk factors 7 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk pca is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and changes in the market value of its financial instruments. pca periodically enters into derivatives in order to minimize these risks, but not for trading purposes. we were not party to any derivative-based arrangements at december 31, 2017. for a discussion of derivatives and hedging activities, see note 13, derivative instruments and hedging activities, of the notes to consolidated financial statements in part ii,risk factors 7 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk pca is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and changes in the market value of its financial instruments. pca periodically enters into derivatives in order to minimize these risks, but not for trading purposes. we were not party to any derivative-based arrangements at december 31, 2018. for a discussion of derivatives and hedging activities, see note 14, derivative instruments and hedging activities, of the notes to consolidated financial statements in part ii,risk factors 10 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk pca is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and changes in the market value of its financial instruments. pca periodically enters into derivatives in order to minimize these risks, but not for trading purposes. we were not party to any derivative-based arrangements at december 31, 2019. for a discussion of derivatives and hedging activities, see note 16, derivative instruments and hedging activities, of the notes to consolidated financial statements in part ii,