risk factors 11 risk factors. in addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the risks described herein could result in a significant adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. if we fail to adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose customers and have difficulty attracting new customers for our products and services. the markets for our services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new services and evolving industry standards. our future success will be significantly affected by our ability to enhance our current products and services, and develop and introduce new products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers and their clients. these initiatives carry the risks associated with any new product or service development effort, including cost overruns, delays in delivery, and performance issues. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing, marketing and selling new products and services that meet these changing demands, that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, and marketing of these products and services, or that our new products and services and their enhancements will adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. we operate in a competitive business environment, and if we are unable to compete effectively our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. the market for our services is intensely competitive. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. some of our competitors have substantial resources. we face direct competition from third parties, and since many of our larger potential customers have historically developed their key applications in-house and therefore view their system requirements from a make-versus-buy perspective, we often compete against our potential customers in-house capacities. in addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our substantial leverage and debt service requirements may adversely affect our financial and operational flexibility. as of december 31, 2006, we had total debt of approximately $3.0 billion. this high level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: the debt level makes us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business, may cause us to have difficulty borrowing money in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes and will limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities and implement certain business strategies; we need to use a large portion of the money we earn to pay principal and interest on our senior credit facilities, which reduces the amount of money available to finance operations, acquisitions and other business activities, repay other indebtedness and pay shareholder dividends; some of the debt has a variable rate of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates; and we have a higher level of debt than certain of our competitors, which may cause a competitive disadvantage and may reduce flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including increased competition. in addition, the terms of our senior credit facilities may restrict us from taking actions, such as making significant acquisitions or dispositions or entering into certain agreements that we might believe to be advantageous to us. 11 table of contents if we are unable to successfully consummate and integrate acquisitions, our results of operations may be adversely affected. as part of our growth strategy, we have made numerous acquisitions in recent years. we anticipate that we will continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses, products and services. this strategy will depend on the ability to find suitable acquisitions and finance them on acceptable terms. we may require additional debt or equity financing for future acquisitions, and doing so will be made more difficult by our substantial debt. if we are unable to acquire suitable acquisition candidates, we may experience slower growth. further, even if we successfully complete acquisitions, we will face challenges in integrating any acquired business. these challenges include eliminating redundant operations, facilities and systems, coordinating management and personnel, retaining key employees, managing different corporate cultures, and achieving cost reductions and cross-selling opportunities. there can be no assurance that we will be able to fully integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully or fully realize the potential benefits of bringing them together, and the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert our resources. consolidation in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our revenues by eliminating some of our existing and potential customers and could make us more dependent on a more limited number of customers. there has been and continues to be substantial merger, acquisition and consolidation activity in the banking and financial services industry. mergers or consolidations of banks and financial institutions in the future could reduce the number of our customers and potential customers, which could adversely affect our revenues even if these events do not reduce the aggregate number of customers or the banking and other activities of the consolidated entities. if our customers merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our customers, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. in addition, it is possible that the larger banks or financial institutions resulting from mergers or consolidations could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. demand for many of our products and services is sensitive to the level of consumer transactions generated by our customers, and accordingly, our revenues could be impacted negatively by a general economic slowdown or any other event causing a material slowing of consumer spending. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from transaction processing fees. any changes in economic factors that adversely affect consumer spending and related consumer debt, or a reduction in check writing or credit and debit card usage, could reduce the volume of transactions that we process, and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. potential customers of our financial information software and services business may be reluctant to switch to a new vendor, which may adversely affect our growth, both in the u.s. and internationally. for banks and other potential customers of our financial information software and services segment, switching from one vendor of bank core processing or related software and services (or from an internally-developed system) to a new vendor is a significant undertaking. many potential customers worry about potential disadvantages such as loss of accustomed functionality, increased costs and business disruption. as a result, potential customers, both in the u.s. and internationally, often resist change. we seek to overcome this resistance through strategies such as making investments to enhance the functionality of our software. however, there can be no assurance that our strategies for overcoming potential customers reluctance to change vendors will be successful, and this resistance may adversely affect our growth, both in the u.s. and internationally. decreased lending and real estate activity may reduce demand for certain of our services and adversely affect our results of operations. revenues from our information services and lender services operations are closely related to the general level of real estate transactions, such as real estate sales and mortgage refinancings. real estate sales are affected by a 12 table of contents number of factors, including mortgage interest rates, the availability of funds to finance purchases and general economic conditions. the volume of refinancing transactions in particular and mortgage originations in general declined in 2004, 2005 and 2006 from 2003 levels, resulting in reduction of revenues in some of our businesses. in addition, rising mortgage delinquency and default rates have negatively impacted some of our mortgage lending customers, particularly within the subprime lending market. these trends appear likely to continue. our revenues in future periods will continue to be subject to these and other factors which are beyond our control and, as a result, are likely to fluctuate. we could have conflicts with fnf, and the executive chairman of our board of directors and other officers and directors could have conflicts of interest due to their relationships with fnf. conflicts may arise between fnf and us as a result of our ongoing agreements and the nature of our respective businesses. among other things, we and certain of our subsidiaries are parties to a variety of intercompany agreements with fnf. certain of our executive officers and directors will be subject to conflicts of interest with respect to such intercompany agreements and other matters due to their relationships with fnf. some of the fnf executive officers and directors who became executive officers and directors of our company in connection with the fnf merger, including william p. foley, ii, alan l. stinson and brent b. bickett, own substantial amounts of fnf stock and stock options because of their relationships with fnf and old fnf prior to the fnf merger. such ownership could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest when our directors and officers are faced with decisions that involve fnf or any of its respective subsidiaries. mr. foley, who became our executive chairman in connection with the fnf merger, is currently the chief executive officer and chairman of the board of directors of fnf. mr. stinson and mr. bickett also became officers of our company and fnf. as a result, each of these individuals has obligations to us as well as to fnf and will have conflicts of interest with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us and fnf. matters that could give rise to conflicts between us and fnf include, among other things. our past and ongoing relationships with fnf, including intercompany agreements and other arrangements with respect to the administration of tax matters, employee benefits, indemnification, and other matters; the quality and pricing of services that we have agreed to provide to fnf or that it has agreed to provide to us; and business opportunities arising for either us or fnf, that could be pursued by either us or by fnf. we will seek to manage these potential conflicts through dispute resolution and other provisions of our agreements with fnf and through oversight by independent members of our board of directors. however, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective or that we will be able to resolve all potential conflicts with fnf, or that the resolution of any such conflicts will be no less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated third party. we may lack adequate oversight since the chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of fnf is also our executive chairman. mr. foley is executive chairman of our board of directors. mr. foley is also the chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer of fnf. as a result of his roles, he has obligations to us as well as fnf and may have conflicts of time with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us. as executive chairman, it is expected that mr. foley will devote no more than one-half of his time to matters relating to us. if mr. foley duties as executive chairman of our board of directors require more time than he is able to allot, then his oversight of the activities of our company could be diminished and the effective management of our company could be adversely affected. 13 table of contents our revenues from the sale of services to visa and mastercard organizations are dependent upon our continued visa and mastercard certification and financial institution sponsorship, and the loss or suspension of this certification or sponsorship could adversely affect our business. in order to provide our card services, we must be designated a certified processor by, and be a member service provider of, mastercard and be designated as an independent sales organization of visa. these designations are dependent upon our continuing adherence to the standards of the visa and mastercard associations. the member financial institutions of visa and mastercard, some of which are our competitors, set the standards with which we must comply. if we fail to comply with these standards, our designation as a certified processor, as a member service provider, or as an independent sales organization could be suspended or terminated. the termination of our member service provider status or our status as a certified processor, or any changes in the visa and mastercard rules that prevent our registration or otherwise limit our ability to provide transaction processing and marketing services for the visa or mastercard organizations would result in the loss of business from visa or mastercard issuing customers, and lead to a reduction in our revenues, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. we have a long sales cycle for many of our applications and if we fail to close sales after expending significant time and resources to do so, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. the implementation of many of our applications often involves significant capital commitments by our customers, particularly those with smaller operational scale. potential customers generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available software and require us to expend substantial time, effort, and money educating them as to the value of our software and services. we incur substantial costs in order to obtain each new customer. we may expend significant funds and management resources during the sales cycle and ultimately fail to close the sale. our sales cycle may be extended due to our customers budgetary constraints or for other reasons. if we are unsuccessful in closing sales after expending significant funds and management resources or we experience delays, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. if old fnf 2006 spin-off of fnf does not constitute a tax free distribution under section 355(e) of the internal revenue code or if our merger with old fnf does not constitute a tax free reorganization under section 368(a), then we may suffer losses resulting from payment of taxes and tax-related losses. under a tax disaffiliation agreement, which we were required to enter into with old fnf and fnf as a condition to the closing under our merger agreement with old fnf, fnf is required to indemnify us for taxes and tax-related losses (including stockholder suits) if old fnf 2006 spin-off of fnf (the 2006 distribution ) were determined to be taxable either to old fnf (and us as its successor) or the fnf stockholders or both, unless such adverse determination were the result of a breach by us of our agreement not to take any action within our control that would cause the 2006 distribution to be taxable or the result of an acquisition of fis stock within the control of us or a subsidiary. in such an event, old fnf estimated that the amount of tax on the transfer of fnf stock in the distribution could be in the range of $150 million and possibly greater depending on, among other things, the value of fnf stock at the time of the 2006 distribution. in addition, fnf is required under the tax disaffiliation agreement to indemnify old fnf (and us as its successor) for taxes and tax-related losses (including stockholder suits) in the event the old fnf-fis merger were determined to be taxable. old fnf estimated that the amount of tax on old fnf transfer and retirement of its fis stock in the merger could be in the range of $1 billion and possibly greater depending on, among other things, the value of our stock at the time of the merger. even if the 2006 distribution otherwise qualifies as a spin-off under section 355 of the code, the distribution of fnf common stock to the old fnf stockholders in connection with the 2006 distribution would not qualify as tax-free to old fnf (or us as its successor) under section 355(e) of the code if 50% or more of the stock of old fnf (including us as successor to old fnf) or fnf is acquired as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the 2006 distribution. as a result of our merger with old fnf, approximately 49% of our stock would be treated as having been acquired pursuant to a plan that includes the 2006 distribution for purposes of section 355(e) of the code. 14 table of contents there is no guaranty that fnf will have financial resources to satisfy any such indemnification obligation described above. if the tax-free status is lost because of any action taken by us or any of our subsidiaries after the time of the 2006 distribution (except for certain actions specifically identified in the tax disaffiliation agreement), we would be required to pay the taxes described above ourself and would be required to indemnify fnf for all tax-related losses. we may be affected by significant restrictions following the fnf merger with respect to certain actions that could jeopardize the tax-free status of the spin-off by old fnf of fidelity national title group or the fnf merger. in order to preserve the tax-free treatment of the spin-off by old fnf of fidelity national title group, a tax disaffiliation agreement entered into by fnf and us prior to the closing under the fnf merger agreement restricts us, for two years after the spin-off, from taking certain actions within our control that could cause the spin-off to be taxable without first obtaining a consent of certain officers of fnf or obtaining an opinion from a nationally recognized law firm or accounting firm that such action will not cause the spin-off to be taxable to fnf under section 355(e) of the code. in general, such actions would include engaging in certain transactions involving (i) the acquisition of our stock or (ii) the issuance of shares of our stock. because of these restrictions, we may be limited in the amount of stock that we can issue to make acquisitions or raise additional capital in the two years subsequent to the spin-off and the fnf merger and in our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock. we may experience software defects, development delays, and installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. many of our services are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new applications and services. further, the software underlying our services has occasionally contained and may in the future contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on platforms used by our customers. defects in our software, errors, or delays in the processing of electronic transactions, or other difficulties could result in: interruption of business operations; delay in market acceptance; additional development and remediation costs; diversion of technical and other resources; loss of customers; negative publicity; or exposure to liability claims. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through disclaimers and limitation-of-liability provisions in our license and customer agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will be successful in limiting our liability. security breaches or computer viruses could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation. as part of our business, we electronically receive, process, store, and transmit sensitive business information of our customers. in addition, we collect personal consumer data, such as names and addresses, social security numbers, driver license numbers, checking and savings account numbers, and payment history records. unauthorized access to our computer systems or databases could result in the theft or publication of confidential information or the deletion or modification of records or could otherwise cause interruptions in our operations. these concerns about security are increased when we transmit information over the internet. computer viruses have 15 table of contents also been distributed and have rapidly spread over the internet. computer viruses could infiltrate our systems, disrupting our delivery of services and making our applications unavailable. any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and terminate their agreements with us, and could inhibit our ability to attract new customers. many of our customers are subject to a regulatory environment and to industry standards that may change in a manner that reduces the number of transactions in which our customers engage and therefore reduces our revenues. our customers are subject to a number of government regulations and industry standards with which our products and services must comply. for example, our products are affected by visa and mastercard electronic payment standards that are generally updated twice annually. in addition, action by regulatory authorities relating to credit availability, data usage, privacy, or other related regulatory developments could have an adverse effect on our customers and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. if we fail to comply with privacy regulations imposed on providers of services to financial institutions, our business could be harmed. as a provider of services to financial institutions, we are bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information we receive from our customers as apply to the financial institutions themselves. if we fail to comply with these regulations, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract or to governmental proceedings, our customer relationships and reputation could be harmed, and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new customers. in addition, if more restrictive privacy laws or rules are adopted in the future on the federal or state level, or, with respect to our international operations, by authorities in foreign jurisdictions on the national, provincial, state, or other level, that could have an adverse impact on us. if we experience system failures, the products and services we provide to our customers could be delayed or interrupted, which could harm our business and reputation and result in the loss of customers. our ability to provide reliable service in a number of our businesses depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operations of our computer network systems and data centers. our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry, and computer viruses. although we have taken steps to prevent system failures, we cannot be certain that our measures will be successful. further, our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. any significant interruptions could: increase our operating expenses to correct problems caused by the interruption; harm our business and reputation; result in a loss of customers; or expose us to liability. any one or more of the foregoing occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations we face liability to our merchant customers if checks that we have guaranteed are dishonored by the check writer bank. if a check that we have guaranteed is dishonored by the check writer bank, we must reimburse our merchant customer for the check face value and pursue collection of the amount from the delinquent check writer. in some cases, we recognize a liability to our merchant customers for estimated check returns and a receivable for amounts we estimate we will recover from the check writers, based on historical experience and other relevant factors. the estimated check returns and recovery amounts are subject to the risk that actual amounts returned may exceed our estimates and actual amounts recovered may be less than our estimates. 16 table of contents our outsourcing of key development functions overseas may lead to quality control issues that affect our business operations. by outsourcing development functions overseas, we may experience quality control issues in our applications offered to our markets. overseas outsourcing operations are subject to risk of quality control deficiencies due to the physical distance from our headquarters, the increased potential for instructions and guidance to be misunderstood, a lack of direct institutional control and the time and expense it will take to provide on site training. any one of these factors make it more difficult for us to maintain quality control, and the potential for quality control issues may impact our ability to maintain and or increase our customer base. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult. we cannot make any assurances that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of technology or that the agreements entered into for that purpose will be enforceable. effective trademark, service mark, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available online. misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if our applications or services are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we may be required to change our business practices and may also become subject to significant costs and monetary penalties. as our information technology applications and services develop, we may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. any claims, whether with or without merit, could: be expensive and time-consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing or using applications that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign our applications, if feasible; divert management attention and resources; and require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies. we may not succeed with our current and future expansion of our international operations and such failure may adversely affect our growth and results of operations. in 2006, sales outside of the u.s. represented approximately 10.9% of our revenues. we believe there are additional opportunities to expand our international operations, and we expect to commit significant resources to expand our international sales and marketing activities. however, overall we are less well-known internationally than in the united states and have less experience with local business conditions. in addition, we will face challenges in successfully managing small operations located far from our headquarters, because of the greater difficulty in overseeing and guiding operations from a distance, and we will be increasingly subject to a number of other risks and potential costs, including: political and economic instability; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and policy, the adoption of laws detrimental to our operations such as legislation relating to the collection of personal data over the internet or the adoption of laws, regulations, or treaties governing the export of encryption related software; the burdens of complying with a wide variety of other laws and regulations; 17 table of contents failure to adequately manage currency exchange rate fluctuations; potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; potential difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables in some foreign legal systems; and general economic conditions in international markets. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future international competitors. sales of our shares by large shareholders could adversely affect the trading price of our shares. in connection with the 2005 minority interest sale in former fis, we entered into a registration rights agreement with certain of our stockholders requiring us to register the shares of our common stock that are beneficially owned by them. consequently, we have to date registered for resale from time to time shares which collectively account for approximately 12.8% of our shares outstanding. sales of these shares, or the possibility that sales of these shares may occur in unlimited amounts and without prior notice, could adversely affect the trading price of our shares. statement regarding forward-looking information the statements contained in this form 10-k or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other statements made by our management that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, including statements regarding our expectations, hopes, intentions, or strategies regarding the future. these statements relate to, among other things, our future financial and operating results. in many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, or continue, or the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these statements as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to: general political, economic, and business conditions, including the possibility of intensified international hostilities, acts of terrorism, and general volatility in the capital markets; failures to adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace; consolidation in the mortgage lending or banking industry; security breaches of our systems and computer viruses affecting our software; a decrease in the volume of real estate transactions such as real estate sales and mortgage refinancings, which can be caused by high or increasing interest rates, a shortage of mortgage funding, or a weak united states economy; the impact of competitive products and pricing; the ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates and the ability to finance such acquisitions, which depends upon the availability of adequate cash reserves from operations or of acceptable financing terms and the variability of our stock price; our ability to integrate any acquired business operations, products, clients, and personnel; the effect of our substantial leverage, which may limit the funds available to make acquisitions and invest in our business; changes in, or the failure to comply with, government regulations, including privacy regulations; and other risks detailed elsewhere in this risk factors section and in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission. 18 table of contents we are not under any obligation (and expressly disclaim any such obligation) to update or alter our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you should carefully consider the possibility that actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks fis is highly leveraged. as of december 31, 2006, it was paying interest on the term loan facilities and revolver at a rate of libor plus 1.25 to 1.75%, or (6.60-7.10%). as of january 18, 2007, fis was paying interest on the new credit agreement at libor plus 1.00%. a one percent increase in the libor rate would increase its annual debt service on the credit agreement by $22.6 million (based on amounts outstanding at december 31, 2006). the credit rating assigned to fis by standard poor is currently bb+ with a positive outlook. on april 11, 2005, fis entered into interest rate swap agreements which have effectively fixed the interest rate at approximately 5.4% through april 2008 on $350 million of the term loan facilities and at approximately 5.2% through april 2007 on an additional $350 million of the term loan facilities. the estimated fair value of the cash flow hedges results in an asset of fis of $4.9 million as of december 31, 2006, which is included in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets in other noncurrent assets and as a component of accumulated other comprehensive earnings, net of deferred taxes. 42 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors. in addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the risks described herein could result in a significant adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. if we fail to adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose customers and have difficulty attracting new customers for our services. the markets for our services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new services and evolving industry standards. our future success will be significantly affected by our ability to enhance our current services, and develop and introduce new services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers and their clients. these initiatives carry the risks associated with any new service development effort, including cost overruns, delays in delivery, and performance issues. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing, marketing and selling new services that meet these changing demands, that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, and marketing of these services, or that our new services and their enhancements will adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. we operate in a competitive business environment, and if we are unable to compete effectively our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. the market for our services is intensely competitive. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. some of our competitors have substantial resources. we face direct competition from third parties, and since many of our larger potential customers have historically developed their key applications in-house and therefore view their system requirements from a make-versus-buy perspective, we often compete against our potential customers in-house capacities. in addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 11 table of contents our substantial leverage and debt service requirements may adversely affect our financial and operational flexibility. as of december 31, 2007, we had total debt of approximately $4.3 billion. this high level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: the debt level makes us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business, may cause us to have difficulty borrowing money in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes and limits our ability to pursue other business opportunities and implement certain business strategies; we need to use a large portion of the money we earn to pay principal and interest on our senior credit facilities, which reduces the amount of money available to finance operations, acquisitions and other business activities, repay other indebtedness and pay shareholder dividends; some of the debt has a variable rate of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates; and we have a higher level of debt than certain of our competitors, which may cause a competitive disadvantage and may reduce flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including increased competition. in addition, the terms of our senior credit facilities may restrict us from taking actions, such as making significant acquisitions or dispositions or entering into certain agreements, which we might believe to be advantageous to us. if we are unable to successfully consummate and integrate acquisitions, our results of operations may be adversely affected. as part of our growth strategy, we have made numerous acquisitions in recent years. we anticipate that we will continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses and services. this strategy will depend on the ability to find suitable acquisitions and finance them on acceptable terms. we may require additional debt or equity financing for future acquisitions, and doing so will be made more difficult by our substantial debt. if we are unable to acquire suitable acquisition candidates, we may experience slower growth. further, even if we successfully complete acquisitions, we will face challenges in integrating any acquired business. these challenges include eliminating redundant operations, facilities and systems, coordinating management and personnel, retaining key employees, managing different corporate cultures, and achieving cost reductions and cross-selling opportunities. there can be no assurance that we will be able to fully integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully or fully realize the potential benefits of bringing them together, and the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert our resources. consolidation in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our revenues by eliminating some of our existing and potential customers and could make us more dependent on a more limited number of customers. there has been and continues to be substantial merger, acquisition and consolidation activity in the banking and financial services industry. mergers or consolidations of banks and financial institutions in the future could reduce the number of our customers and potential customers, which could adversely affect our revenues even if these events do not reduce the aggregate number of customers or the banking and other activities of the consolidated entities. if our customers merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our customers, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. in addition, it is possible that the larger banks or financial institutions resulting from mergers or consolidations could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 12 table of contents demand for many of our services is sensitive to the level of consumer transactions generated by our customers, and accordingly, our revenues could be impacted negatively by a general economic slowdown or any other event causing a material slowing of consumer spending. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from transaction processing fees. any changes in economic factors that adversely affect consumer spending and related consumer debt, or a reduction in check writing or credit and debit card usage, could reduce the volume of transactions that we process, and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. potential customers may be reluctant to switch to a new vendor, which may adversely affect our growth, both in the u.s. and internationally. for banks and other potential customers of our financial information software and services, switching from one vendor of bank core processing or related software and services (or from an internally-developed system) to a new vendor is a significant undertaking. many potential customers worry about potential disadvantages such as loss of accustomed functionality, increased costs and business disruption. as a result, potential customers, both in the u.s. and internationally, often resist change. we seek to overcome this resistance through strategies such as making investments to enhance the functionality of our software. however, there can be no assurance that our strategies for overcoming potential customers reluctance to change vendors will be successful, and this resistance may adversely affect our growth, both in the u.s. and internationally. decreased lending and real estate activity may reduce demand for certain of our services and adversely affect our results of operations. real estate sales are affected by a number of factors, including mortgage interest rates, the availability of funds to finance purchases, the level of home prices and general economic conditions. the volume of refinancing transactions in particular and mortgage originations in general declined in 2005, 2006 and 2007 from 2004 levels, resulting in reduction of revenues in some of our businesses. the current mba forecast is for $2.0 trillion of mortgage originations in 2008 compared to $2.3 trillion in 2007. our revenues in future periods will continue to be subject to these and other factors which are beyond our control and, as a result, are likely to fluctuate. further, in the event that levels of home ownership were to decline or other factors were to reduce the aggregate number of u.s. mortgage loans, our revenues from mortgage processing and related services could be adversely affected. we could have conflicts with fnf, and the executive chairman of our board of directors and other officers and directors could have conflicts of interest due to their relationships with fnf. conflicts may arise between fnf and us as a result of our ongoing agreements and the nature of our respective businesses. among other things, we and certain of our subsidiaries are parties to a variety of related party agreements with fnf. certain of our executive officers and directors will be subject to conflicts of interest with respect to such related party agreements and other matters due to their relationships with fnf. some of the fnf executive officers and directors who became executive officers and directors of our company in connection with the fnf merger, including william p. foley, ii and brent b. bickett, own substantial amounts of fnf stock and stock options because of their relationships with fnf and old fnf prior to the fnf merger. such ownership could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest when our directors and officers are faced with decisions that involve fnf or any of its respective subsidiaries. mr. foley, who became our executive chairman in connection with the fnf merger, is currently the chairman of the board of directors of fnf. mr. bickett also became an officer of our company and fnf. as a result, each of these individuals has obligations to us as well as to fnf and will have conflicts of interest with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us and fnf. 13 table of contents matters that could give rise to conflicts between us and fnf include, among other things. our past and ongoing relationships with fnf, including related party agreements and other arrangements with respect to the administration of tax matters, employee benefits, indemnification, and other matters; the quality and pricing of services that we have agreed to provide to fnf or that it has agreed to provide to us; and business opportunities arising for either us or fnf, that could be pursued by either us or by fnf. we will seek to manage these potential conflicts through dispute resolution and other provisions of our agreements with fnf and through oversight by independent members of our board of directors. however, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective or that we will be able to resolve all potential conflicts with fnf, or that the resolution of any such conflicts will be no less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated third party. we may lack adequate oversight since the chairman of the board of directors of fnf is also our executive chairman. mr. foley is executive chairman of our board of directors. mr. foley is also the chairman of the board of directors of fnf. as a result of his roles, he has obligations to us as well as fnf and may have conflicts of time with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us. as executive chairman, it is expected that mr. foley will devote no more than one-half of his time to matters relating to us. if mr. foley duties as executive chairman of our board of directors require more time than he is able to allot, then his oversight of the activities of our company could be diminished and the effective management of our company could be adversely affected. our revenues from the sale of services to the visa and mastercard organizations are dependent upon our continued visa and mastercard certification and financial institution sponsorship, and the loss or suspension of this certification or sponsorship could adversely affect our business. in order to provide our card services, we must be designated a certified processor by, and be a member service provider of, mastercard and be designated as an independent sales organization of visa. these designations are dependent upon our continuing adherence to the standards of the visa and mastercard associations. the member financial institutions of visa and mastercard, some of which are our competitors, set the standards with which we must comply. if we fail to comply with these standards, our designation as a certified processor, as a member service provider, or as an independent sales organization could be suspended or terminated. the termination of our member service provider status or our status as a certified processor, or any changes in the visa and mastercard rules that prevent our registration or otherwise limit our ability to provide transaction processing and marketing services for the visa or mastercard organizations, would result in the loss of business from visa or mastercard issuing customers, and lead to a reduction in our revenues, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. we have a long sales cycle for many of our applications and if we fail to close sales after expending significant time and resources to do so, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. the implementation of many of our applications often involves significant capital commitments by our customers, particularly those with smaller operational scale. potential customers generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available software and require us to expend substantial time, effort, and money educating them as to the value of our software and services. we incur substantial costs in order to obtain each new customer. we may expend significant funds and management resources during the sales cycle and ultimately fail to close the sale. our sales cycle may be extended due to our customers budgetary constraints or for other reasons. if we are unsuccessful in closing sales after expending significant funds and management resources or we experience delays, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 14 table of contents in the wake of the current mortgage crisis, there could be adverse regulatory consequences or litigation that could affect us. various aspects of our businesses are subject to federal, state and foreign regulation. the sharp rise in home foreclosures that started in the united states during the fall of 2006 and has accelerated in 2007 and 2008 has begun to result in investigations and lawsuits against various parties commenced by various governmental authorities and third parties. it has also resulted in governmental review of aspects of the mortgage lending business, which may lead to greater regulation in areas such as appraisals, default management, loan closings and regulatory reporting. such actions and proceedings could have consequences that could adversely affect our business. completion of the spin-off is subject to various risks. on october 25, 2007, we announced our intention to pursue the spin-off of the businesses that primarily comprise our lps operations. there is no guarantee the proposed spin-off will be finalized. completion of the spin-off is subject to a number of specific factors and conditions, as well as to the discretion of our board of directors which may be influenced by market conditions or other factors. for example, it is a condition to completing the spin-off that we receive a private letter ruling from the irs and an opinion of our special tax adviser, together to the effect that, for united states federal income tax purposes, the following transactions will qualify as tax-free transactions to us, the spun-off entity, and our stockholders: (i) the contribution of all of our interest in the assets, liabilities, businesses and employees related to our lps operations in exchange for the receipt by us of lps, inc. common stock and lps, inc. debt obligations (the contribution ); (ii) the expected exchange by us of the lps, inc. debt obligations for certain of our outstanding debt (the debt exchange ); and (iii) the distribution of lps, inc. common stock to our stockholders, except that any gain that our stockholders realize on cash received in lieu of any fractional shares of lps, inc. common stock to which such stockholders may be entitled in the distribution generally will be taxable to the stockholders. the proposed spin-off is also subject to the sec having declared effective the registration statement for the new shares and the listing of lps, inc. common stock on the nyse having been approved, among other conditions. if the spin-off is not completed, we will have incurred costs without any corresponding benefit. further, our management will have spent time executing the plan which may be a distraction from its day to day activities. we and/or lps may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect will be achieved from the spin-off. we and lps, inc. may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits we expect will result from the spin-off or such benefits may be delayed or not occur at all. these outcomes may occur due to, among other things, the leverage to be incurred by lps, inc. in connection with the spin-off, the loss of synergies, excess costs the two companies will incur as stand-alone entities, or the obligations imposed on lps, inc. and us to avoid certain transactions in respect of our capital stock in order to preserve the planned tax-free nature of the transactions. finally, notwithstanding our receipt of the irs private letter ruling and opinion of our special tax adviser, the irs could determine that the contribution, debt exchange and/or spin-off should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that there was a misstatement or omission of any of the facts, representations, or undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter ruling, or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion that are not covered by the irs ruling. in such case, we and our shareholders could be subject to significant tax liabilities. if old fnf 2006 spin-off of fnf does not constitute a tax free distribution under section 355(e) of the internal revenue code or if our merger with old fnf does not constitute a tax free reorganization under section 368(a), then we may suffer losses resulting from payment of taxes and tax-related losses. under a tax disaffiliation agreement, which we were required to enter into with old fnf and fnf as a condition to the closing under our merger agreement with old fnf, fnf is required to indemnify us for taxes and tax-related losses (including stockholder suits) if old fnf 2006 spin-off of fnf (the 2006 distribution ) were determined to be taxable either to old fnf (and us as its successor) or the fnf stockholders or both, unless such adverse determination were the result of a breach by us of our agreement not to take any action within our control that would cause the 2006 distribution to be taxable or the result of an acquisition of fis stock within the control of 15 table of contents us or a subsidiary. in such an event, old fnf estimated that the amount of tax on the transfer of fnf stock in the distribution could be in the range of $150 million and possibly greater depending on, among other things, the value of fnf stock at the time of the 2006 distribution. in addition, fnf is required under the tax disaffiliation agreement to indemnify old fnf (and us as its successor) for taxes and tax-related losses (including stockholder suits) in the event the old fnf-fis merger were determined to be taxable. old fnf estimated that the amount of tax on old fnf transfer and retirement of its fis stock in the merger could be in the range of $1 billion and possibly greater depending on, among other things, the value of our stock at the time of the merger. even if the 2006 distribution otherwise qualifies as a spin-off under section 355 of the code, the distribution of fnf common stock to the old fnf stockholders in connection with the 2006 distribution would not qualify as tax-free to old fnf (or us as its successor) under section 355(e) of the code if 50% or more of the stock of old fnf (including us as successor to old fnf) or fnf is acquired as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the 2006 distribution. as a result of our merger with old fnf, approximately 49% of our stock would be treated as having been acquired pursuant to a plan that includes the 2006 distribution for purposes of section 355(e) of the code. there is no guaranty that fnf will have financial resources to satisfy any such indemnification obligation described above. if the tax-free status is lost because of any action taken by us or any of our subsidiaries after the time of the 2006 distribution (except for certain actions specifically identified in the tax disaffiliation agreement), we would be required to pay the taxes described above ourself and would be required to indemnify fnf for all tax-related losses. we may be affected by significant restrictions following the fnf merger with respect to certain actions that could jeopardize the tax-free status of the spin-off by old fnf of fidelity national title group or the fnf merger. in order to preserve the tax-free treatment of the spin-off by old fnf of fidelity national title group, a tax disaffiliation agreement entered into by fnf and us prior to the closing under the fnf merger agreement restricts us, for two years after the spin-off, from taking certain actions within our control that could cause the spin-off to be taxable without first obtaining a consent of certain officers of fnf or obtaining an opinion from a nationally recognized law firm or accounting firm that such action will not cause the spin-off to be taxable to fnf under section 355(e) of the code. in general, such actions would include engaging in certain transactions involving (i) the acquisition of our stock or (ii) the issuance of shares of our stock. because of these restrictions, we may be limited in the amount of stock that we can issue to make acquisitions or raise additional capital in the two years subsequent to the spin-off and the fnf merger and in our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock. we may experience software defects, development delays, and installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. many of our services are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new applications and services. further, the software underlying our services has occasionally contained and may in the future contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on platforms used by our customers. defects in our software, errors, or delays in the processing of electronic transactions, or other difficulties could result in: interruption of business operations; late delivery to the market; delay in market acceptance; additional development and remediation costs; diversion of technical and other resources; 16 table of contents loss of customers; impact on growth expectations; negative publicity; or exposure to liability claims. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through disclaimers and limitation-of-liability provisions in our license and customer agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will be successful in limiting our liability. security breaches or computer viruses could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation. as part of our business, we electronically receive, process, store, and transmit sensitive business information of our customers. in addition, we collect personal consumer data, such as names and addresses, social security numbers, driver license numbers, checking and savings account numbers, and payment history records. unauthorized access to our computer systems or databases could result in the theft or publication of confidential information or the deletion or modification of records or could otherwise cause interruptions in our operations. these concerns about security are increased when we transmit information over the internet. computer viruses have also been distributed and have rapidly spread over the internet. computer viruses could infiltrate our systems, disrupting our delivery of services and making our applications unavailable. any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and terminate their agreements with us, and could inhibit our ability to attract new customers. many of our customers are subject to a regulatory environment and to industry standards that may change in a manner that reduces the number of transactions in which our customers engage and therefore reduces our revenues. our customers are subject to a number of government regulations and industry standards with which our services must comply. for example, our services are affected by visa and mastercard electronic payment standards that are generally updated twice annually. in addition, action by regulatory authorities relating to credit availability, data usage, privacy, or other related regulatory developments could have an adverse effect on our customers and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. if we fail to comply with privacy regulations imposed on providers of services to financial institutions, our business could be harmed. as a provider of services to financial institutions, we are bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information we receive from our customers as apply to the financial institutions themselves. if we fail to comply with these regulations, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract or to governmental proceedings, our customer relationships and reputation could be harmed, and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new customers. in addition, if more restrictive privacy laws or rules are adopted in the future on the federal or state level, or, with respect to our international operations, by authorities in foreign jurisdictions on the national, provincial, state, or other level, that could have an adverse impact on us. if we experience system failures, the services we provide to our customers could be delayed or interrupted, which could harm our business and reputation and result in the loss of customers. our ability to provide reliable service in a number of our businesses depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operations of our computer network systems and data centers. our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry, and computer viruses. although we have taken steps to prevent system failures, we cannot be certain that our measures 17 table of contents will be successful. further, our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. any significant interruptions could: increase our operating expenses to correct problems caused by the interruption; harm our business and reputation; result in a loss of customers; or expose us to liability. any one or more of the foregoing occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we face liability to our merchant customers if checks that we have guaranteed are dishonored by the check writer bank. if a check that we have guaranteed is dishonored by the check writer bank, we must reimburse our merchant customer for the check face value and pursue collection of the amount from the delinquent check writer. in some cases, we recognize a liability to our merchant customers for estimated check returns and a receivable for amounts we estimate we will recover from the check writers, based on historical experience and other relevant factors. the estimated check returns and recovery amounts are subject to the risk that actual amounts returned may exceed our estimates and actual amounts recovered may be less than our estimates. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult. we cannot make any assurances that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of technology or that the agreements entered into for that purpose will be enforceable. effective trademark, service mark, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available online. misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if our applications or services are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we may be required to change our business practices and may also become subject to significant costs and monetary penalties. as our information technology applications and services develop, we may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. any claims, whether with or without merit, could: be expensive and time-consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing or using applications that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign our applications, if feasible; divert management attention and resources; and require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies. we may not succeed with our current and future expansion of our international operations and such failure may adversely affect our growth and results of operations. in 2007, sales outside of the u.s. represented approximately 11.2% of our revenues. we believe there are additional opportunities to expand our international operations, and we expect to commit significant resources to 18 table of contents expand our international sales and marketing activities. however, overall we are less well-known internationally than in the united states and have less experience with local business conditions. in addition, we will face challenges in successfully managing small operations located far from our headquarters, because of the greater difficulty in overseeing and guiding operations from a distance, and we will be increasingly subject to a number of other risks and potential costs, including: political and economic instability; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and policy, the adoption of laws detrimental to our operations such as legislation relating to the collection of personal data over the internet or the adoption of laws, regulations, or treaties governing the export of encryption related software; the burdens of complying with a wide variety of other laws and regulations; failure to adequately manage currency exchange rate fluctuations; potential difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables in some foreign legal systems; and general economic conditions in international markets. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future international competitors. misappropriation of consumer data by a former employee could materially adversely affect our relationship with governing organizations, customers or regulators. on july 3, 2007, we announced that a database administrator had misappropriated consumer information. to date, we have seen no evidence of the stolen information being used for anything other than marketing purposes. nevertheless, multiple putative class action lawsuits were filed against us seeking monetary damages. those class actions were settled in january of 2008, and the settlement received preliminary approval from the court in february of 2008. although we do not believe that we face any material liability, there can be no assurance that this matter will not result in fines or other charges or adversely impact our relationships with the visa and mastercard issuing organizations, customers or regulators. statement regarding forward-looking information the statements contained in this form 10-k or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other statements made by our management that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, including statements regarding our expectations, hopes, intentions, or strategies regarding the future. these statements relate to, among other things, our future financial and operating results. in many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, or continue, or the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these statements as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to: general political, economic, and business conditions, including the possibility of intensified international hostilities, acts of terrorism, and general volatility in the capital markets; failures to adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace; consolidation in the mortgage lending or banking industry; security breaches of our systems and computer viruses affecting our software; a decrease in the volume of real estate transactions such as real estate sales and mortgage refinancings, which can be caused by high or increasing interest rates, a shortage of mortgage funding, or a weak united states economy; the impact of competitive services and pricing; 19 table of contents the ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates and the ability to finance such acquisitions, which depends upon the availability of adequate cash reserves from operations or of acceptable financing terms and the variability of our stock price; our ability to integrate any acquired business operations, services, clients, and personnel; the effect of our substantial leverage, which may limit the funds available to make acquisitions and invest in our business; changes in, or the failure to comply with, government regulations, including privacy regulations; and other risks detailed elsewhere in this risk factors section and in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission. we are not under any obligation (and expressly disclaim any such obligation) to update or alter our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you should carefully consider the possibility that actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks as of december 31, 2007, we are paying interest on the credit agreement at libor plus 1.25% and libor plus 1.75% on our term loan a and term loan b, respectively. a one percent increase in the libor rate would increase our annual debt service on the credit agreement by $10.2 million (based on principal amounts outstanding at december 31, 2007, net of interest rate swaps). the credit rating assigned to fis by standard poor was bb at december 31, 2007. we have entered into the following interest rate swap transactions converting a portion of the interest rate exposure on our term loans from variable to fixed (in millions): bank pays fis pays effective date termination date notional amount variable rate of(1) fixed rate of(2) april 11, 2005 april 11, 2008 $ 150.0 1 month libor 4.39 % april 11, 2005 april 11, 2008 145.0 1 month libor 4.37 % april 11, 2005 april 11, 2008 55.0 1 month libor 4.37 % april 11, 2007 april 11, 2010 850.0 1 month libor 4.92 % october 11, 2007 october 11, 2009 1,000.0 1 month libor 4.73 % december 11, 2007 december 11, 2009 250.0 1 month libor 3.80 % december 11, 2007 december 11, 2010 750.0 1 month libor 3.85 % $ 3,200.0 (1) 4.60% as of december 31, 2007. (2) in addition to the fixed rates paid under the swaps, we pay an applicable margin to our bank lenders on the revolving loan and the term loan a of 1.25% and the term loan b of 1.75%. we have designated these interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges in accordance with sfas no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities . the estimated fair value of these cash flow hedges results in a liability of $41.2 million and an asset of $4.9 million, as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, which is included in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets in other noncurrent assets or liabilities and as a component of accumulated other comprehensive earnings, net of deferred taxes. a portion of the amount included in accumulated other comprehensive earnings is reclassified into interest expense as a yield adjustment as interest payments are made on the term loans. our existing cash flow hedges are highly effective and there is no current impact on earnings due to hedge ineffectiveness. it is our policy to execute such instruments with credit-worthy banks and not to enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. 40 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors. in addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the risks described herein could result in a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. risks related to our markets and industry consolidations and failures in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our business by eliminating some of our existing and potential customers and making us more dependent on a more limited number of customers. there has been and continues to be substantial consolidation activity in the banking and financial services industry. in addition, many financial institutions that experienced negative operating results, including some of our customers, have failed. the consolidations and failures reduce the number of our customers and potential customers, which could adversely affect our revenues even if the events do not reduce the aggregate activities of the consolidated entities. further, if our customers fail and/or merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our customers, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce use of our services. it is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidations would have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 11 table of contents if we fail to adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose customers and have difficulty attracting new customers for our services. the markets for our services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new services and evolving industry standards. our future success will be significantly affected by our ability to enhance our current services, and develop and introduce new services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers and their clients. these initiatives carry the risks associated with any new service development effort, including cost overruns, delays in delivery, and performance issues. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing, marketing and selling new services that meet these changing demands, that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, and marketing of these services, or that our new services and their enhancements will adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. any of these developments could have an adverse impact on our future revenues and/or business prospects. we operate in a competitive business environment, and if we are unable to compete effectively our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. the market for our services is intensely competitive. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. some of our competitors have substantial resources. we face direct competition from third parties, and since many of our larger potential customers have historically developed their key applications in-house and therefore view their system requirements from a make-versus-buy perspective, we often compete against our potential customers in-house capacities. in addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. potential customers may be reluctant to switch to a new vendor, which may adversely affect our growth, both in the u.s. and internationally. for banks and other potential customers of our financial information software and services, switching from one vendor of bank core processing or related software and services (or from an internally-developed system) to a new vendor is a significant undertaking. many potential customers perceive potential disadvantages such as loss of accustomed functionality, increased costs (including conversion costs) and business disruption. as a result, potential customers, both in the u.s. and internationally, may resist change. we seek to overcome this resistance through value enhancing strategies such as a defined conversion process, system integration and making ongoing investments to enhance the functionality of our software. however, there can be no assurance that our strategies for overcoming potential customers reluctance to change vendors will be successful, and this resistance may adversely affect our growth, both in the u.s. and internationally. demand for many of our services is sensitive to the level of consumer transactions generated by our customers, and accordingly, our revenues could be impacted negatively by business cycles, consumer confidence or any other event causing a material slowing of consumer spending. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from transaction processing fees. any changes in economic factors or consumer confidence, such as the current recession, that adversely affect consumer spending and related consumer debt, or a reduction in check writing or credit and debit card usage, could reduce the volume of transactions that we process, and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 table of contents we have a long sales cycle for many of our applications and if we fail to close sales after expending significant time and resources to do so, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. the implementation of many of our applications often involves significant capital commitments by our customers, particularly those with smaller operational scale. potential customers generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available software and require us to expend substantial time, effort, and money educating them as to the value of our software and services. our sales cycle may be extended due to our customers budgetary constraints or for other reasons. we may expend significant funds and management resources during the sales cycle and ultimately fail to close the sale. if we are unsuccessful in closing sales after expending significant funds and management resources or we experience delays, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. risks related to our business and operations losses, consolidations and failures in the financial services industry may impact our ability to borrow funds or the ability of our lenders to fulfill their obligations under our interest rate swap agreements. many financial institutions are currently experiencing negative operating results. in some cases, these negative operating results have led to financial institution failures and/or consolidations, including, in one instance, a lender that is party to our credit agreement and interest rate swap agreements. as a result, lenders may become insolvent or further tighten lending standards, which could in turn make it more difficult or impossible for lenders to perform their obligations under our interest rate swap agreements or for us to borrow under our credit agreement, obtain financing on favorable terms, or obtain financing or interest rate swap agreements at all. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if a financial institution fails to fulfill its obligations under our interest rate swap agreements or we are unable to draw funds under our credit agreement or obtain other cost-effective financing. our existing levels of leverage and debt service requirements may adversely affect our financial and operational flexibility. as of december 31, 2009, we had total debt of approximately $3.3 billion. this level of debt could have adverse consequences for our business, financial condition, operating results and operational flexibility, including the following: (i) the debt level may cause us to have difficulty borrowing money in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; (ii) limiting operational flexibility and our ability to pursue other business opportunities and implement certain business strategies; (iii) we use a large portion of our operating cash flow to pay principal and interest on our senior credit facilities, which reduces the amount of money available to finance operations, acquisitions and other business activities, repay other indebtedness, purchase our outstanding stock and pay shareholder dividends; (iv) some of our debt has a variable rate of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates; and (v) we have a higher level of debt than some of our competitors or potential competitors, which may cause a competitive disadvantage and may reduce flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including increased competition. in addition, the terms of our senior credit facilities may restrict us from taking actions, such as making significant acquisitions or dispositions or entering into certain agreements, which we might believe to be advantageous to us. we may experience defects, development delays, installation difficulties, system failure, or other service disruptions with respect to our technology solutions, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. many of our services are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new technology solutions and services. further, the technology solutions underlying our services have occasionally contained and may in the future contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on platforms used by our customers. finally, our systems and operations could be exposed to 13 table of contents damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. defects in our technology solutions, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions, or other difficulties could result in: (i) interruption of business operations; (ii) delay in market acceptance; (iii) additional development and remediation costs; (iv) diversion of technical and other resources; (v) loss of customers; (vi) negative publicity; or (vii) exposure to liability claims. any one or more of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through disclaimers and limitation-of-liability provisions in our license and customer agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will always be successful in limiting our liability. our revenues from the sale of services to members of visa, mastercard, american express, discover and other similar organizations are dependent upon our continued certification and sponsorship, and the loss or suspension of certification or sponsorship could adversely affect our business. in order to provide our card processing services, we must be certified (including applicable sponsorship) by visa, mastercard, american express, discover and other similar organizations. these certifications are dependent upon our continued adherence to the standards of the issuing bodies and sponsoring member banks. the member financial institutions, some of which are our competitors, set the standards with which we must comply. if we fail to comply with these standards we could be fined, our certifications could be suspended, or our registration could be terminated. the suspension or termination of our certifications, or any changes in the rules and regulations governing visa, mastercard, american express, discover, or other similar organizations could prevent our registration or otherwise limit our ability to provide services, which could result in a reduction in revenue or increased costs of operation, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. many of our customers are subject to a regulatory environment and to industry standards that may change in a manner that reduces the number of transactions in which our customers engage and therefore reduces our revenues. our customers are subject to a number of government regulations and industry standards with which our services must comply. our customers must ensure that our services and related products work within the extensive and evolving regulatory and industry requirements applicable to them. federal, state, foreign or industry authorities could adopt laws, rules or regulations affecting our customers businesses which could lead to increased operating costs and could reduce the convenience and functionality of our products and services possibly resulting in reduced market acceptance. in addition, action by regulatory authorities relating to credit availability, data usage, privacy, or other related regulatory developments could have an adverse effect on our customers and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. security breaches or our own failure to comply with privacy regulations and industry security requirements imposed on providers of services to financial institutions and card processing services could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation. as part of our business, we electronically receive, process, store and transmit sensitive business information of our customers. in addition, we collect personal consumer data, such as names and addresses, social security numbers, driver license numbers, cardholder data and payment history records. unauthorized access to our computer systems or databases could result in the theft or publication of confidential information, the deletion or modification of records or could otherwise cause interruptions in our operations. these risks are increased when we transmit information over the internet. additionally, as a provider of services to financial institutions and card processing services, we are bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information we receive from our customers as apply to the customers themselves. if we fail to comply with these regulations and industry security requirements, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract, governmental proceedings, or prohibitions on card processing services. in addition, if more restrictive privacy laws, rules or industry security requirements are adopted in the future on the federal or state level or by a specific industry body, that could have an adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions 14 table of contents on business processes. any inability to prevent security or privacy breaches could cause our existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and terminate their agreements with us, and could inhibit our ability to attract new customers and/or adversely impact our relationship with administrative agencies. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult. we cannot make any assurances that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of technology or that the agreements entered into for that purpose will be enforceable. effective trademark, service mark, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available online. misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if our applications or services are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we may be required to change our business practices and may also become subject to significant costs and monetary penalties. as our information technology applications and services develop, we are increasingly subject to infringement claims. any claims, whether with or without merit, could: (i) be expensive and time-consuming to defend; (ii) cause us to cease making, licensing or using applications that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; (iii) require us to redesign our applications, if feasible; (iv) divert management attention and resources; and (v) require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies. we face liability to our merchant customers if checks that we have guaranteed are dishonored by the check writer bank. if a check that we have guaranteed is dishonored by the check writer bank, we must reimburse our merchant customer for the check face value and pursue collection of the amount from the check writer. in some cases, we recognize a liability to our merchant customers for estimated check returns and a receivable for amounts we estimate we will recover from the check writers, based on historical experience and other relevant factors. the estimated check returns and recovery amounts are subject to the risk that actual amounts returned may exceed our estimates and actual amounts recovered may be less than our estimates. lack of system integrity, fraudulent payments or credit quality related to funds settlement could result in a financial loss. we settle funds on behalf of financial institutions, other businesses and consumers and receive funds from clients, card issuers, payment networks and consumers on a daily basis for a variety of transaction types. transactions facilitated by us include debit card, credit card, electronic bill payment transactions, ach payments and check clearing that supports consumers, financial institutions and other businesses. these payment activities rely upon the technology infrastructure that facilitates the verification of activity with counterparties, the facilitation of the payment as well as the detection or prevention of fraudulent payments. if the continuity of operations, integrity of processing, or ability to detect or prevent fraudulent payments were compromised this could result in a financial loss to us. in addition, we may issue credit to consumers, financial institutions or other businesses as part of the funds settlement. a default on this credit by a counterparty could result in a financial loss to us. our business is subject to the risks of international operations, including movements in foreign currency exchange rates. our international operations represent 21% of total 2009 revenues, with approximately 16% or our total revenues conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. as a result, our financial condition and operating results could be significantly affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including u.s. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), and changes in the value of 15 table of contents the u.s. dollar versus local currencies. in addition, we are less well-known internationally than in the united states, have less experience with local business conditions and will face challenges in successfully managing small operations located far from our headquarters, because of the greater difficulty in overseeing and guiding operations from a distance. as we expand our international operations, more of our customers may pay us in foreign currencies. conducting business in currencies other than u.s. dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. our primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relate to foreign currencies in brazil, europe, australia and parts of asia. the u.s. dollar value of our net investments in foreign operations, the periodic conversion of foreign-denominated earnings to the u.s. dollar (our reporting currency), our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, could be adversely affected in a material manner by movements in foreign currency exchange rates. during the twelve months ended december 31, 2009, approximately 16% of our revenues were denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the brazilian real, british pound and euro. these risks could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. if we are unable to successfully consummate and integrate acquisitions, our results of operations may be adversely affected. we have made numerous acquisitions in recent years as a part of our growth strategy. we anticipate that we will continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses and services. this strategy will depend on the ability to find suitable acquisitions and finance them on acceptable terms. we may require additional debt or equity financing for future acquisitions, and doing so may be made more difficult by our existing debt. if we are unable to acquire suitable acquisition candidates, we may experience slower growth. further, after successfully completing acquisitions, we face challenges in integrating acquired businesses. these challenges include eliminating redundant operations, facilities and systems, coordinating management and personnel, retaining key employees, managing different corporate cultures, and achieving cost reductions and cross-selling opportunities. there can be no assurance that we will be able to fully integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully or fully realize the potential benefits of bringing them together, and the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert our resources. failure to attract and retain skilled technical employees or senior management personnel could harm our ability to grow. our future success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled technical personnel. because the development of our products and services requires knowledge of computer hardware, operating system software, system management software and application software, our technical personnel must be proficient in a number of disciplines. competition for such technical personnel is intense, and our failure to hire and retain talented personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. our future growth will also require sales and marketing, financial and administrative personnel to develop and support new products and services, to enhance and support current products and services and to expand operational and financial systems. there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our growth strategies and we may experience constraints that could adversely affect our ability to satisfy client demand in a timely fashion. our senior management team has significant experience in the financial services industry, either at fis or with clients or competitors, and the loss of this leadership could have an adverse effect on our business operating results and financial condition. risks related to business combinations we may fail to realize the anticipated cost savings and other financial benefits of the metavante merger on the anticipated schedule, if at all. to achieve planned financial benefits of the metavante merger, fis will need to successfully integrate metavante operations into its own in a timely and efficient manner and will need to execute transitional matters 16 table of contents successfully, including integrating new members of management and the retention of key personnel. there can be no assurance that fis will be able to accomplish this integration process smoothly or successfully. in addition, the integration of certain operations following the merger will require the dedication of significant management resources, which will compete for management attention with its efforts to manage the day-to-day business of the combined company. any inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated cost savings and financial benefits of the merger, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect on the business and results of operations of the combined company. if any part of the lps spin-off is determined to be a taxable transaction, then additional taxes could be imposed on us and our shareholders. on june 20, 2008, we received a favorable private letter ruling from the internal revenue service ( irs ) regarding a series of transactions including the distribution of lps common stock to our shareholders which we refer to as the spin-off. notwithstanding the favorable irs ruling that the spin-off qualified for tax-free treatment, it would become taxable to us, pursuant to section 355(e) of the code, if 50% or more of the shares of either our common stock or lps common stock were acquired, directly or indirectly, as part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the spin-off. if the irs were to determine that acquisitions of our common stock or of lps common stock, either before or after the spin-off, were part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the spin-off, this determination could result in the recognition of substantial gain by us under section 355(e). although the taxes resulting from the spin-off not qualifying for tax-free treatment pursuant to section 355(e) for united states federal income tax purposes would be imposed on us, under the tax disaffiliation agreement entered into by us and lps in connection with the spin-off, lps would be required to indemnify us and our affiliates against all tax related liabilities caused by the failure of the spin-off to qualify for tax-free treatment for united states federal income tax purposes as a result of section 355(e) of the code to the extent these liabilities arise as a result of any action taken by lps or any of lps affiliates following the spin-off or otherwise result from any breach of any representation, covenant or obligation of lps or any of lps affiliates under the tax disaffiliation agreement. there is no guaranty that lps will have financial resources to satisfy any such indemnification obligation described above. the executive chairman of our board of directors and other officers and directors have interests and positions that could present potential conflicts. we and certain of our subsidiaries are parties to a variety of related party agreements and relationships with fnf and lps. william p. foley, ii, who is our executive chairman, is currently the executive chairman of the board of directors of fnf. lee a. kennedy, who served as president and chief executive officer of our company through september 30, 2009 and who currently serves as executive vice chairman, is also the executive chairman of the board of directors of lps. in addition, he serves as the chief executive officer of ceridian corporation, a company in which fnf holds an approximate 33% equity interest. brent b. bickett and michael l. gravelle, who are executive officers of fis, are also executive officers of fnf. william p. foley, ii, brent b. bickett and michael l. gravelle also own or hold substantial amounts of fnf stock and stock options. thomas m. hagerty and richard n. massey, who are both directors of fis, are also directors of fnf. david k. hunt, a director of fis, is also a director of lps. as a result of the foregoing, there may be circumstances where certain of our executive officers and directors may be subject to conflicts of interest with respect to, among other things: (i) our ongoing relationships with fnf and lps, including related party agreements and other arrangements with respect to the administration of tax matters, employee benefits and indemnification; (ii) the quality, pricing and other terms associated with services that we provide to fnf and lps, or that they provide to us, under related party agreements; (iii) business opportunities arising for either us, fnf or lps, that could be pursued by either us, or by fnf or lps; and (iv) conflicts of time with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting fis. we seek to manage these potential conflicts through abstention, oversight by independent members of our board of directors and provisions in our agreements with fnf and lps. however, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective or that we will be able to resolve all potential conflicts with fnf and lps, or that the 17 table of contents resolution of any such conflicts will be no less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated third party. we have substantial investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of prior acquisitions, and a severe or extended economic downturn could cause these investments to become impaired, requiring write-downs that would reduce our operating income. as of december 31, 2009, goodwill aggregated to $8,232.9 million, 58.8% of total assets, and other indefinite lived intangible assets aggregated to $49.1 million, 0.4% of total assets. current accounting rules require goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets to be assessed for impairment at least annually or whenever changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment. factors that may be considered a change in circumstance include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. the results of our fiscal year 2009 annual assessment of the recoverability of goodwill indicated that the fair values of the company reporting units were in excess of the carrying values of those reporting units, and thus no goodwill impairment existed as of december 31, 2009. additionally, other than impairment charges of $124.0 million relating to trademarks associated primarily with the rebranding of fis, the fair value of indefinite lived intangible assets was in excess of the carrying value of those assets. however, if worldwide or united states economic conditions decline significantly with negative impacts to bank spending and consumer behavior, the carrying amount of our goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, and we may be required to record an impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. we will continue to monitor the fair value of our other indefinite lived intangible assets as well as our market capitalization and the impact of any economic downturn on our business to determine if there is an impairment in future periods. statement regarding forward-looking information the statements contained in this form 10-k or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other statements made by our management that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, including statements regarding our expectations, hopes, intentions, or strategies regarding the future. these statements relate to, among other things, our future financial and operating results. in many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, or continue, or the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these statements as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to: general political, economic, and business conditions, including the possibility of intensified international hostilities, acts of terrorism, and general volatility in the capital markets; failures to adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace; consolidation or failures in the banking industry; consolidation or failures in the retail industry; security breaches of our systems and computer viruses affecting our software; the impact of competitive services and pricing; the failure to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect from the acquisition of metavante, including the possibility that our acquisition of metavante may not be accretive to our earnings due to undisclosed liabilities, management or integration issues, loss of customers, the inability to achieve targeted cost savings, or other factors; the ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates and the ability to finance such acquisitions, which depends upon the availability of adequate cash reserves from operations or of acceptable financing terms and the variability of our stock price; 18 table of contents our ability to integrate any acquired business operations, services, clients, and personnel; the effect of our substantial leverage, which may limit the funds available to make acquisitions and invest in our business; changes in, or the failure to comply with, government regulations, including privacy regulations; and other risks detailed elsewhere in this risk factors section and in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission. we are not under any obligation (and expressly disclaim any such obligation) to update or alter our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you should carefully consider the possibility that actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks market risk we are exposed to market risks primarily from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we use certain derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps, to manage interest rate risk. we do not use derivatives for trading purposes, to generate income or to engage in speculative activity. 36 table of contents interest rate risk at the present time, our only material market risk-sensitive instruments are our debt and related interest rate swaps. we have issued debt that bears interest at floating rates. we use interest rate swaps for the purpose of managing our interest expense on the mix of fixed and floating rate debt. we manage interest rate sensitivity by measuring potential increases in interest expense that would result from a probable change in interest rates. when the potential increase in interest expense exceeds an acceptable amount, we reduce risk through the purchase of derivatives. as of december 31, 2009, we are paying interest on our term loan a at libor plus 0.88%, on our metavante term loan at libor plus 3.25%, on our term loan c at libor plus 4.25%, and on our revolving loan at libor plus 0.70%. an increase of 100 basis points in the libor rate would increase our annual debt service under the fis credit agreement, after we calculate the impact of our interest rate swaps, by $7.0 million (based on principal amounts outstanding at december 31, 2009). we performed the foregoing sensitivity analysis based on the principal amount of our floating rate debt as of december 31, 2009, less the principal amount of such debt that was then subject to an interest rate swap converting such debt into fixed rate debt. this sensitivity analysis is based solely on the principal amount of such debt as of december 31, 2009 and does not take into account any changes that occurred in the prior 12 months or that may take place in the next 12 months in the amount of our outstanding debt or in the notional amount of outstanding interest rate swaps in respect of our debt. further, in this sensitivity analysis, the change in interest rates is assumed to be applicable for an entire year. for comparison purposes, based on principal amounts on the revolving loan and term loan a outstanding as of december 31, 2008, and calculated in the same manner as set forth above, an increase of 100 basis points in the libor rate would have increased our annual interest expense, after we calculate the impact of our interest rate swaps, by $3.9 million. as of december 31, 2009, we have entered into the following interest rate swap transactions converting a portion of the interest rate exposure on our term and revolving loans from variable to fixed (in millions): bank pays fis pays effective date termination date notional amount variable rate of fixed rate of april 11, 2007 april 11, 2010 $ 850.0 1 month libor(4) 4.92%(5) april 11, 2010 april 11, 2011 200.0 1 month libor(4) 0.76%(5) october 20, 2009 april 20, 2011 400.0 1 month libor(4) 0.99%(5) october 20, 2009 april 20, 2011 300.0 1 month libor(4) 0.99%(5) february 1, 2010 may 1, 2011 250.0 1 month libor(4) 0.75%(5) february 1, 2010 may 1, 2011 150.0 1 month libor(4) 0.74%(5) december 11, 2009 june 13, 2011 200.0 1 month libor(4) 0.91%(5) february 1, 2008 february 1, 2012 600.0 (1) 3 month libor(2) 3.87%(3) february 1, 2008 february 1, 2012 200.0 3 month libor(2) 3.44%(3) $ 3,150.0 (1) notional value amortizes to $400.0 million on february 1, 2010 and $200.0 million on february 1, 2011. (2) 0.25% in effect at december 31, 2009. (3) in addition to the fixed rates paid under the swaps, we currently pay an applicable margin of 3.25%. these swaps were acquired in the metavante merger. while the payments are fixed, interest expense associated with these swaps is recorded based on the floating rate curve established as of the acquisition date. (4) 0.23% in effect at december 31, 2009. (5) in addition to the fixed rates paid under the swaps, we currently pay an applicable margin to our bank lenders on the term loan a of 0.88%, term loan c of 4.25% and the revolving loan of 0.70% (plus a facility fee of 0.18%) as of december 31, 2009. we have designated these interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges. a portion of the amount included in accumulated other comprehensive earnings is reclassified into interest expense as a yield adjustment as interest payments are made on the term and revolving loans. in accordance with the authoritative guidance for fair value 37 table of contents measurements, the inputs used to determine the estimated fair value of our interest rate swaps are level 2-type measurements. we considered our own credit risk and the credit risk of the counterparties when determining the fair value of our interest rate swaps. foreign currency risk our exposure to foreign currency exchange risks arises from our non-u.s. operations generally, to the extent they are conducted in local currency. changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect translations of revenues denominated in currencies other than u.s. dollars. our international operations generated approximately $782.7 million in revenues during the year ended december 31, 2009, of which approximately $605.1 million was denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the major currencies that we are exposed to are the brazilian real, the euro and the british pound sterling. a 10% move in average exchange rates for these currencies (assuming a simultaneous and immediate 10% change in all of such rates for the relevant period) would have had the following effects on our reported revenues for the years ended december 31, 2009 and 2008 (in millions): currency 2009 2008 real $ 28.2 $ 26.0 euro 19.1 19.6 pound sterling 6.4 8.4 total impact $ 53.7 $ 54.0 the impact on earnings of the foregoing assumed 10% change in each of the periods presented would not have been significant. our foreign exchange risk management policy permits the use of derivative instruments, such as forward contracts and options, to reduce volatility in our results of operations and/or cash flows resulting from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. our international operations revenues and expenses are generally denominated in local currency which limits the economic exposure to foreign exchange risk in those jurisdictions. we do not enter into foreign currency derivative instruments for trading purposes. 38risk factors 10 risk factors. in addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the risks described herein could result in a 10 table of contents significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. risks related to our markets and industry consolidations and business failures in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our business by elimi nating some of our existing and potential customers and making us more dependent on a more limited number of customers. there has been and continues to be substantial consolidation activity in the banking and financial services industry. in addition, many financial institutions that experienced negative operating results, including some of our customers, have failed. the consolidations and failures reduce the number of our potential customers and may reduce the number of our customers, which could adversely affect our revenues even if the events do not reduce the aggregate activities of the consolidated entities. further, if our customers fail and/or merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our customers, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce use of our services. it is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidations would have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose customers and have difficulty attracting new customers for our services. the markets for our services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new services and evolving industry standards. our future success will be significantly affected by our ability to enhance our current services, and develop and introduce new services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers and their clients. these initiatives carry the risks associated with any new service development effort, including cost overruns, delays in delivery, and performance issues. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing, marketing and selling new services that meet these changing demands, that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, and marketing of these services, or that our new services and their enhancements will adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. any of these developments could have an adverse impact on our future revenues and/or business prospects. we operate in a competitive business environment, and if we are unable to compete effectively our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. the market for our services is intensely competitive. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. some of our competitors have substantial resources. we face direct competition from third parties, and since many of our larger potential customers have historically developed their key applications in-house and therefore view their system requirements from a make-versus-buy perspective, we often compete against our potential customers&rsquo; in-house capacities. in addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. see "item i. business. competition." global economic, political and other conditions including business cycles and consumer confidence may adversely affect our customers or trends in consumer spending, which may adversely impact the demand for our services and our revenue and profitability. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from transaction processing fees. the global transaction processing industries depend heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. any change in economic factors including a sustained deterioration in general economic conditions or consumer confidence, particularly in the united states, or inc reases in interest rates in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer spending including related consumer debt, reduce check writing, change credit and debit card usage, and may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions which we service. potential customers may be reluctant to switch to a new vendor, which may adversely affect our growth. for banks and other potential customers of our financial information software and services, switching from one vendor of bank core processing or related software and services (or from an inte rnally-developed system) to a new vendor is a significant 11 table of contents undertaking. many potential customers perceive potential disadvantages such as loss of accustomed functionality, increased costs (including conversion costs) and business disruption. as a result, potential customers may resist change. we seek to overcome this resistance through value enhancing strategies such as a defined conversion process, system integration and making ongoing invest ments to enhance the functionality of our software. however, there can be no assurance that our strategies for overcoming potential customers&rsquo; reluctance to change vendors will be successful, and this resistance may adversely affect our growth. the sales and implementation cycles for many of our software and services can be lengthy and require significant investment from both our customers and fis. if we fail to close sales or if a customer chooses not to complete an installation after expending significant time and resources to do so, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. the sales and associated deployment of many of our software or services often involve significant capital commitments by our customers and/or fis. potential customers generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available software and services and require us to expend substantial time, effort, and money educating them as to the value. further, as part of the sale or deployment of our software and services, customers may also require fis to perform significant related services to complete a proof of concept or custom development to meet their needs. all of the aforementioned activities may expend significant funds and management resources and ultimately the customer may determine not to close the sale or complete the implementation. if we are unsuccessful in closing sales or if the customer decides not to complete an implementation after expending significant funds and management resources or we experience d elays, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. failure to obtain new clients or renew client contracts on favorable terms could result in a lower number or loss of clients and adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. we may face pricing pressure in obtaining and retaining our larger clients. larger clients may be able to seek price reductions from us when they renew a contract, when a contract is extended, or when the client's business has significant volume changes. on some occasions, this pricing pressure results in lower revenue from a client than we had anticipated based on o ur previous agreement with that client. this reduction in revenue could result in an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. further, failure to renew client contracts on favorable terms could have an adverse effect on our business. our contracts with customers generally run for several years and provide for early termination fees. terms are generally renegotiated prior to the end of a contract's term. if we are not successful in achieving a high rate of contract renewals on favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. risks related to our business and operations losses, consolidations and failures in the financial services industry may impact our ability to borrow funds or the ability of our lenders to fulfill their obligations under our interest rate swap agreements. many financial institutions are currently experiencing negative operating results. in some cases, these negative operating results have led to financial institution failures and/or consolidations, including, in one instance, a lender that is party to our credit agreement and interest rate swap agreements. as a result, lenders may become insolvent or further tighten lending standards, which could in turn make it more difficult or impossible for lenders to perform their obligations under our interest rate swap agreements or for us to borrow under our credit agreement, obtain financing on favorable terms, or obtain financing or interest rate swap agreements at all. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if a financial institution fails to fulfill its obligations under our interest rate swap agreements or we are unable to draw funds under our credit agreement or obtain other cost-effective financing. our existing levels of leverage and debt service requirements may adversely affect our financial and operational flexibility. as of december 31, 2010 , we had total debt of approximately $5.2 billion. this level of debt could have adverse consequences for our business, financial condition, operating results and operational flexibility, including the following: (i) the debt level may cause us to have difficulty borrowing money in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; (ii) our debt level may limit operational flexibility and our ability to p ursue business opportunities and implement certain business strategies; (iii) we use a large portion of our operating cash flow to pay principal and interest on our senior credit facilities, which reduces the amount of money available to finance operations, acquisitions and other business 12 table of contents activities, repay other indebtedness, purchase our outstanding stock and pay shareholder dividends; (iv) some of our debt has a variable rate of i nterest, which exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates; and (v) we have a higher level of debt than some of our competitors or potential competitors, which may cause a competitive disadvantage and may reduce flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including increased competition. we may experience defects, development delays, installation difficulties, system failure, or other service disruptions with respect to our technology solutions, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. many of our services are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new technology solutions and services. further, the technology solutions underlying our services have occasionally contained and may in the future contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on platforms used by our customers or our customers may cancel a project after we have expended significant effort and resources to complete an installation. finally, our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. defects in our technology solutions, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions, or other difficulties could result in: (i) int erruption of business operations; (ii) delay in market acceptance; (iii) additional development and remediation costs; (iv) diversion of technical and other resources; (v) loss of customers; (vi) negative publicity; or (vii) exposure to liability claims. any one or more of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through disclaimers and limitation-of-liability provisions in our license and customer agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will always be successful in limiting our liability. the dodd-frank act may result in business changes fo r our customers that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, or prospects for future growth and overall business . our customers, and as a result our associated software and services, are required to comply with numerous regulations. the dodd-frank act and associated durbin amendment were passed and signed into law in 2010. the dodd-frank act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the united states, establishes the new federal bureau of consumer financial protection and will require this and other federal agencies to implement many new regulations. the durbin amendment could alter the fees charged by card associations and debit networks. several new regulations and rules will be written and implemented as directed by the aforementioned legislation throughout 2011 and beyond and these new rules and regulations will require our customers or potential customers to comply with new requirements. see "item i. business. government regulation" for more information regarding certain of these new requirements. these new requirements could result in the need for fis to make capital investments to modify our products and services to facilitate our customers and potential customers' compliance. further, requirements of the new regulations could result in changes in our customers' business practices that may alter their delivery of services to consumers which could impact the demand for our software and services as well as alter the type or volume of transactions that we process on behalf of our customers. as a result the new legislation co uld have an adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. many of our customers are subject to a regulatory environment and to industry standards that may change in a manner that reduces the number of transactions in which our customers engage and therefore reduces our revenues. our customers are subject to a number of government regulations and industry standards with which our services must comply. our customers must ensure that our services and related products work within the extensive and evolving regulatory and industry requirements applicable to them. federal, state, fore ign or industry authorities could adopt laws, rules or regulations affecting our customers' businesses that could lead to increased operating costs and could reduce the convenience and functionality of our products and services possibly resulting in reduced market acceptance. in addition, action by regulatory authorities relating to credit availability, data usage, privacy, or other related regulatory developments could have an adverse effect on our customers and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. the dodd-frank act and associated durbin amendment passed in 2010 may compound this risk and have an adverse effect on our customers and/or impact the type and volume of transactions we process on their behalf and therefore could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our revenues from the sale of services to members of visa, mastercard, american express, discover and other similar organizations are dependent upon our continued certification and sponsorship, and the loss or suspension of certification or sponsorship could adversely affect our business. 13 table of contents in order to provide our card processing services, we must be certified (including applicable sponsorship) by visa, mastercard, american express, discover and other similar organizations. these certifications are dependent upon our continued adherence to the standards of the issuing bodies and sponsoring member banks. the member financial institutions, some of which are our competitors, set the standards with which we must comply. if we fail to comply with these standards we could be fined, our certifications could be suspended, or our registration could be terminated. the suspension or termination of our certifications, or any changes in the rules and regulations governing visa, mastercard, american express, discover, or other similar organizations could prevent our registration or otherwise limit our ability to provide services, which c ould result in a reduction in revenue or increased costs of operation, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. changes in card association and debit network fees or products could increase costs or otherwise limit our operations. from time to time, card associations and debit networks increase the interchange fees that they charge. it is possible that competitive pressures will result in our absorption of a portion of such increases in the future, which would increase our operating costs, reduce our profit margin and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operation. furthermore, the rules and regulations of th e various card associations and networks prescribe certain capital requirements. any increase in the capital level required would further limit our use of capital for other purposes. interchange fees and related practices have been receiving significant legal and regulatory scrutiny worldwide. the resulting regulatory changes that could occur from proposed regulations such as the durbin amendment could alter the fees charged by card associations and debit networks. the impact from the proposed regulations will not be known until the rules are finalized, however resulting changes in fees could impact the card issuance or services offered by our customers which could have an adverse impact to our business or financial condition due to reductions or changes in types of transactions processed on behalf of our customers. see "item i. business. government r egulation" for more information. if we fail to comply with applicable regulations or to meet regulatory expectations, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely impacted. the majority of our data processing services for financial institutions are not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. however, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, our data processing operations are examine d on a regular basis by various federal and state regulatory authorities. if we fail to comply with any applicable regulations or guidelines for operations of a data services provider, we could be subject to regulatory actions, may not meet contractual obligations, or suffer harm to our client relationships or reputation. failure to meet the aforementioned requirements or to adapt to new requirements at the federal, state or international level could inhibit our ability to retain existing customers or obtain new customers which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition to our data processing services described above, we also have business operations that st ore, process or transmit consumer information or have direct relationships with consumers that are obligated to comply with regulations including, but not limited to, the fair credit reporting act, the debt collection practices act and applicable privacy requirements. further, our international businesses must comply with applicable u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act. failure to maintain compliance with or adapt to changes in any of the aforementioned requirements could result in fines, penalties or regulatory actions that could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. security breaches or our own failure to comply with privacy regulations and industry security requirements imposed on providers of services to financial institutions and card processing ser vices could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation. as part of our business, we electronically receive, process, store and transmit sensitive business information of our customers. in addition, we collect personal consumer data, such as names and addresses, social security numbers, driver's license numbers, cardholder data and payment history records to support our customers transaction processing as well as part of our check authorization and collection businesses . the uninterrupted operation of our information systems and the confidentiality of the customer/consumer information that resides on such systems are critical to our successful operation. unauthorized access to our compute r systems or databases could result in the theft or publication of confidential information, the deletion or modification of records or could otherwise cause interruptions in our operations. these risks are increased when we transmit information over the internet. as a provider of services to financial institutions and card processing services, we are bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information we receive from our customers as apply to the customers themselves. if we fail to comply with these regulations and industry security requirements, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract, governmental 14 table of contents proceedings or the imposition of fines, or prohibitions on card processing services. in addition, if more restrictive privacy laws, rules or industry security requirements are adopted in the future on the federal or state level or by a specific industry body, they could have an adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on business processes. any inability to prevent security or privacy breaches could cause our existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and terminate their agreements with us, and could inhibit our ability to attract new customers and/or adversely impact our relationship with administr ative agencies. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult. we cannot make any assurances that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of technology or that the agreements entered into for that purpose will be enforceable. effective trademark, service mark, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available online. misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if our applications or services are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we may be required to change our business practices and may also become subject to significant costs and monetary penalties. as our information technology applications and services develop, we are increasingly subject to infringement claims. any claims, whether with or without merit, could: (i) be expensive and time-consuming to defend; (ii) cause us to cease making, licensing or using applications that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; (iii) require us to redesign our applications, if feasible; (iv) divert management&rsquo;s attention and resources; and (v) require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies. we face liability to our merchant customers if checks that we have guaranteed are dishonored by the check writer&rsquo;s bank. if a check that we have guaranteed is dishonored by the check writer&rsquo;s bank, we must reimburse our merchant customer for the check&rsquo;s face value and pursue collection of the amount from the check writer. in some cases, we recognize a liability to our merchant customers for estimated check returns and a receivable for amounts we estimate we will recover from the check writers, based on historical experience and other relevant factors. the estimated check returns and recovery amounts are subject to the risk that actual amounts returned may exceed our estimates and actual amounts recovered may be less tha n our estimates. lack of system integrity, fraudulent payments, credit quality related to funds settlement or the availability of clearing services could result in a financial loss. we settle funds on behalf of financial institutions, other businesses and consumers and receive funds from clients, card issuers, payment networks and consumers on a daily basis for a variety of transaction types. transactions facilitated by us include debit card, credit card, electronic bill payment transactions, automated clearing house (&ldquo;ach&rdquo;) payments and check clearing that supports consumers, financial institutions and other businesses. these payment activ ities rely upon the technology infrastructure that facilitates the verification of activity with counterparties, the facilitation of the payment as well as the detection or prevention of fraudulent payments. if the continuity of operations, integrity of processing, or ability to detect or prevent fraudulent payments were compromised this could result in a financial loss to us. in addition, we rely on various financial institutions to provide ach services in support of funds settlement for certain of our products. if we are unable to obtain such ach services in the future, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. in addition, we may issue credit to consumers, financial institutions or other businesses as part of the funds settlement. a default on this credit by a counterparty could result in a financial loss to us. our business is subject to the risks of international operations, including movements in foreign currency exchange rates. our international operations represent 17% of total 2010 revenues, with approximately 16% or our total revenues conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the brazilian real, british pound and euro. as a result, our financial condition and operating results could be significantly affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including u.s. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), differences in business practices and changes in the value of the u.s. dollar versus local currencies. in addition, we are less well-known internationally than in the united states, have less experience with local business conditions and may face challenges in successfully managing small operations located far from our headquarters, because of the greater difficulty in overseeing and guiding operations from a distance. 15 table of contents as we expand our international operations, more of our customers may pay us in foreign currencies. conducting business in currencies other than u.s. dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. our primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relate to foreign currencies in brazil, europe, australia and parts of asia. the u.s. dollar value of our net investments in foreign operations, the periodic conversion of foreign-denominated earnings to the u.s. dollar (our reporting currency), our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, could be adversely affected in a material manner by movements in foreign currency exchange rates. these risks could cause an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. failure to attract and retain skilled technical employees or senior management personnel could harm our ability to grow. our future success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled technical personnel. because the development of our products and services requires knowledge of computer hardware, operating system software, system management software and application software, our technical personnel must be proficient in a number of disciplines. competition for such technical personnel is intense, and our failure to hire and retain talented personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. our future growth will also require sales and marketing, financial and administrative personnel to develop and support new products and services, to enhance and support current products and services and to expand operational and financial systems. there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our growth strategies and we may experience constraints that could adversely affect our ability to satisfy client demand in a timely fashion. our senior management team has significant experience in the financial services industry, either at fis or with clients or competitors, and the loss of this leadership could have an adverse effect on our business operating results and financial condition. we are the subject of various legal proceedings that could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. we are routinely involved in various litigation matters, including in some cases class-action litigation, and also are involved in or the subject of governmental or regulatory agency inquiries or investigations from time to time. if we are unsuccessful in our defense in the litigation matters, or any other legal proceeding, we may be forced to pay damages or fines and/or change our business practices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax ex pense. our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. an unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, and could negatively impact our effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the current and/or future periods. the chairman of our board of directors and other officers and directors have interests and positions that could present potential conflicts. we and certain of our subsidiaries are parties to a variety of related party agreements and relationships with fnf and lps. william p. foley, ii, who is our chairman, is currently the chairman of the board of directors of fnf. brent b. bickett and michael l. gravelle, who are executive officers of fis, are also executive officers of fnf. william p. foley, ii, brent b. bickett and michael l. gravelle also own or hold substantial amounts of fnf stock and stock options. thomas m. hagerty and richard n. massey, who are both directors of fis, are also directors of fnf. david k. hunt, a director of fis, is also a director of lps. as a result of the foregoing, there may be circumstances where certain of our executive officers and directors may be subject to conflicts of interest with respect to, among other things: (i) our ongoing relationships with fnf and lps, including related party agreements and other arrangements with respect to the administrati on of tax matters, employee benefits and indemnification; (ii) the quality, pricing and other terms associated with services that we provide to fnf and lps, or that they provide to us, under related party agreements; (iii) business opportunities arising for either us, fnf or lps, that could be pursued by either us, or by fnf or lps; and (iv) conflicts of time with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting fis. we seek to manage these potential conflicts through abstention, oversight by independent members of our board of directors and provisions in our agreements with fnf and lps. however, there can be no assurance that such measures will be 16 table of contents effective or that we will be able to resolve all potential conflicts with fnf and lps, or that the resolution of any such conflicts will be no less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated third party. our agreements with related parties may be more or less favorable than agreements negotiated at arm's-length with indepen dent parties. we have entered into various agreements with certain related parties, including, without limitation, fnf and ceridian corporation, pursuant to which we will provide services to each such related party as a client. we believe the amounts earned from or charged by us under each such arrangement is fair and reasonable, and that our service arrangements are priced within the range of prices we offer to third parties; however, the amounts we earned or that were charged under these arrangements were not negotiated at arm's-length, and may not represent the terms that we might have obtained from an unrelated third party for similar services. any inferior terms that such agreements may contain as compared to agreements negotiated with unrelated third parties may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. risks related to business combinations if we are unable to successfully consummate and integrate acquisitions, our results of operations may be adversely affected. we have made numerous acquisitions in recent years as a part of our growth strategy. we anticipate that w e will continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses and services. this strategy will depend on the ability to find suitable acquisitions and finance them on acceptable terms. we may require additional debt or equity financing for future acquisitions, and doing so may be made more difficult by our existing debt. if we are unable to acquire suitable acquisition candidates, we may experience slower growth. further, after successfully completing acquisitions, we face challenges in integrating acquired businesses. these challenges include eliminating redundant operations, facilities and systems, coordinating management and personnel, retaining key employees, managing different corporate cultures, and achieving cost reductions and cross-selling opportunities. there can be no assurance that we will be able to fully integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully or fully realize the potential benefits of bringing them together, and the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our busi ness and divert our resources. we have substantial investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of prior acquisitions, and a severe or extended economic downturn could cause these investments to become impaired, requiring write-downs that would reduce our operating income. as of december 31, 2010 , goodwill aggregated to $8,550.0 million, or 60.4% of total assets, and other indefinite lived intangible assets aggregated to $90.5 million, or 0.6% of total assets. current accounting rules require goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets to be assessed for impairment at least annually or whenever changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment. factors that may be considered a change in circumstance include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. the results of our fiscal year 2010 annual assessment of the recoverability of goodwill indicated that the fair values of the company&rsquo;s reporting units were in excess of the carrying values of those reporting units, and thus no goodwill impairment existed as of december 31, 2010 . additionally, the fair value of indefinite lived intangible assets was in excess of the carrying value of those assets. however, if worldwide or united states economic conditions decline significantly with negative impacts to bank spending and consumer behavior , or if other business or market changes impact our outlook , the carrying amount of our goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets may no longer be recoverable and we may be required to record an impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. we will continue to monitor the fair value of our other indefinite lived intangible assets as well as our market capitalization and the impact of any economic downturn on our business to determine if there is an impairment in future periods. statement regarding forward-looking information the statements contained in this form 10-k or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other statements made by our management that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, including statements regarding our expectations, hopes, intentions, or strategies regarding the future. these statements relate to, among other things, our future financial and operating results. in many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as &ldquo;may,&rdquo; &ldquo;will,&rdquo; &ldquo;should,&rdquo; &ldquo;expect,&rdquo; &ldquo;plan,&rdquo; &ldquo;anticipate,&rdquo; &ldquo;believe,&rdquo; &ldquo;estimate,&rdquo; &ldquo;predict,&rdquo; &ldquo;potential,&rdquo; or &ldquo;continue,&rdquo; or the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these sta tements 17 table of contents as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to: &bull; general political, economic, and business conditions, including the possibility of intensified international hostilities, acts of terrorism, and general volatility in the capital markets; &bull; failures to adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace; &bull; consolidation or failures in the banking industry; &bull; consolidation or failures in the retail industry; &bull; security breaches of our systems and computer viruses affecting our software; &bull; the impact of competitive services and pricing; &bull; the failure to achieve some of the benefits that we expect from the acquisition of metavante, including the possibility that our acquisition of metavante may not be accretive to our earnings due to undisclosed liabilities, management or integration issues, loss of customers, the inability to achieve targeted cost savings, or other factors; &bull; & nbsp; the ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates and the ability to finance such acquisitions, which depends upon the availability of adequate cash reserves from operations or of acceptable financing terms and the variability of our stock price; &bull; our ability to integrate any acquired business&rsquo; operations, services, clients, and personnel; &bull; the effect of our substantial leverage, which may limit the funds available to make acquisitions and invest in our business; &bull; changes in, or the failure to comply with, government regulations, including pri vacy regulations; and &bull; other risks detailed elsewhere in this risk factors section and in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission. we are not under any obligation (and expressly disclaim any such obligation) to update or alter our forward-looking statements, whe ther as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you should carefully consider the possibility that actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks market risk we are exposed to market risks primarily from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we use certain derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward exchange contracts, to manage interest rate and foreign currency risk. we do not use derivatives for trading purposes, to generate income or to engage in speculative activity. interest rate risk in addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by operating activities, we use fixed rate and variable rate debt to finance our operations. we are exposed to interest rate risk on these debt obligations and related interest rate swaps. the notes represent substantially all of our fixed-rate long-term debt obligations. the carrying value of the notes was $1,100.0 million at december 31, 2010. the fair value of the notes was approximately $1,172.3 million at december 31, 2010. the potential reduction in fair value of the notes from a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates would not be material to the overall fair value of the debt. we currently have no plans to repurchase the notes before their maturity and, therefore, fluctuations in market interest rates would not have an effect on our results of operations or financial condition. our floating rate long-term debt obligations principally relate to borrowings under the fis credit agreement. as of december 31, 2010 , we are paying interest on our term loan a-1 of libor plus 1.00%, on our term loan a-2 of libor plus an applicable margin of up to 2.50% based upon the company's leverage ratio as defined in the fis credit agreement, and on our term loan b at generally libor plus 3.75% (with libor subject to a 1.50% floor). prior to the june 29, 2010 amendment and extension, interest on the revolving loan was payable at libor plus up to 1.00% (eurocurrency borrowings), fed-funds plus up to 1.00% (swingline bor rowings) or prime plus 0.00% (base rate borrowings) plus a facility fee of up to 0.25%. the pre-amendment pricing continues to apply for the portion of the revolving loan that matures in january 2012, consisting of approximately $112.3 million of commitments. interest on the portion of the revolving loan that matures in july 2014 is generally payable at libor plus an applicable margin of up to 2.50%, based upon the company's leverage ratio, and is subject to an unused commitment fee of 0.50%. an increase of 100 basis points in the libor rate would increase our annual debt service under these credit agreements, after we include the impact of our interest rate swaps, by $3.4 million (based on principal amounts outstanding at december 31, 2010 ). we performed the foregoing sensitivity analysis based on the principal amount of our float ing rate debt as of december 31, 2010 , less the principal amount of such debt that was then subject to an interest rate swap converting such debt into fixed rate debt. this sensitivity analysis is based solely on the principal amount of such debt as of december 31, 2010 , and does not take into account any changes that occurred in the prior 12 months or that may take place in the next 12 months in the amount of our outstanding debt or in the notional amount of outstanding interest rate swaps in respect of our debt. further, in this sensitivity analysis, the change in interest rates is assumed to be applicable for an entire year. for comparison purposes, based on principal amounts on the revolving loan and term loan a outstanding as of december 31, 2009 , and calculated in the same manner as set forth above, an increase of 100 basis points in the libor rate would have increased our annual interest expense, after we calculate the impact of our interest rate swaps, by $7.0 million. we use interest rate swaps for the purpose of managing our interest expense through the mix of fixed rate and floating rate debt. as of december 31, 2010 , we have entered into the following interest rate swap transactions converting a portion of the interest rate exposure on our term and revolving loans from variable to fixed (in millions): 36 table of contents effective date termination date notional amount bank pays variable rate of fis pays fixed rate of april 12, 2010 april 11, 2011 $ 200.0 1 month libor (2) 0.76% (4) october 20, 2009 april 20, 2011 700.0 1 month libor (2) 0.99% (4) february 1, 2010 may 1, 2011 250.0 1 month libor (2) 0.75% (4) february 1, 2010 may 1, 2011 150.0 1 month libor (2) 0.74% (4) december 11, 2009 june 13, 2011 200.0 1 month libor (2) 0.91% (4) february 1, 2008 february 1, 2012 400.0 (1 ) 3 month libor (3) 3.87% (4) february 1, 2008 february 1, 2012 200.0 3 month libor (3) 3.44% (4) november 1, 2010 november 1, 2012 150.0 1 month libor (2) 0.50% (4) february 1, 2011 february 1, 2013 200.0 1 month libor (2) 0.62% (4) may 3, 2011 may 1, 2013 400.0 1 month libor (2) 0.73% (4) $ 2,850.0 _________________________ (1) notional value amortizes from $400.0 million to $200.0 million on february 1, 2011. (2) 0.26% in effect at december 31, 2010 . (3) 0.30% in effect at december 31, 2010 . (4) does not include the applicable margin and facility fees paid to bank lenders on term loan a and revolving loan as described above. we have designated these interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. a portion of the amount included in accumulated other comprehensive earnings is reclassified into interest expense as a yield adjustment as interest payments are made on the term and revolving loans. in accordance with the authoritative guidance for fair value measurements, the inputs used to determine the estimated fair value of our interest rate swaps are level 2-type measurements. we considered our own credit risk and the credit risk of the counterparties when determining the fair value of our interest rate swaps. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. these risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, transaction gains and losses associated with intercompany loans wi th foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in currencies other than a location's functional currency. our objective is to minimize our exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. contracts are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. our exposure to foreign currency exchange risks generally arises from our non-u.s. operations, to the extent they are conducted in local currency. changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect translations of revenues denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. our international operations generated approximately $833.7 million in reven ues, excluding the termination fee of $83.3 million paid by banco santander to exit the brazilian venture, during the year ended december 31, 2010 , of which approximately $709.2 million were denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the major currencies to which we are exposed are the brazilian real, the euro and the british pound sterling. a 10% move in average exchange rates for these currencies (assuming a simultaneous and immediate 10% change in all of such rates for the relevant period) would have resulted in the following increase or decrease in our reported revenues for the years ended december 31, 2010 and 2009 (in millions): currency 2010 2009 real $ 32.5 $ 28.2 euro 18.6 19.1 pound sterling 9.0 6.4 total impact $ 60.1 $ 53.7 the impact on earnings of the foregoing assumed 10% change in each of the periods presented would not have been significant. our foreign exchange risk management policy permits the use of derivative instruments, such as forward contracts and 37 table of contents options, to reduce volatility in our results of operations and/or cash flows resulting from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. our international operations' revenues and expenses are generally denominated in local currency which limits the economic exposure to foreign exchange risk in those jurisdictions. we do not enter into foreign currency derivative instruments for trading purposes. during 2010, we entered into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency exposure to intercompany loans. at december 31, 2010, the notional amount of these derivatives was approximately $56.5 million and the fair value was nominal. th ese derivatives are intended to hedge the foreign exchange risks related to intercompany loans but have not been designated as hedges for accounting purposes. 38 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors. in addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the risks described herein could result in a significant adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. risks resulting from our recently completed business combination we will be controlled by fidelity national financial, inc., or fnf, as long as it owns a majority of our common stock, and our other shareholders generally will be unable to affect the outcome of shareholder voting during this time. as a result of our recently completed business combination, fnf owns approximately 50.7% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. subject to limitations under a shareholders agreement that we entered into with fnf, as long as fnf continues to hold a majority of our outstanding common stock, fnf will be able to elect all of our directors and determine the outcome of all corporate actions requiring shareholder approval. further, under the shareholders agreement, until fnf no longer owns at least 30% of the total voting power of our outstanding stock, fnf will have the right to approve the hiring and firing of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer and our annual operating and capital expenditure budgets. fnf voting control will enable it to control decisions with respect to: our business direction and policies; mergers or other business combinations involving us or our subsidiaries, except as described below; the acquisition or disposition of assets by us or our subsidiaries; our financing; and amendments to our articles of incorporation and bylaws. although it will control whether we can merge or combine with a third party, fnf has agreed, under the shareholders agreement, to certain limitations on its ability to cause us to engage in transactions which are commonly referred to as going-private transactions. in addition to these effects, fnf control could make it more difficult for us to raise capital by selling stock or for us to use our stock as currency in acquisitions. this concentrated ownership also might delay or prevent a change in control and may impede or prevent transactions in which our other shareholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. 15 we could have conflicts with fnf, and the chairman of our board of directors and other officers and directors will be subject to conflicts of interest due to their relationships with fnf and its other subsidiaries. conflicts may arise between fnf, fnf majority owned subsidiary fidelity national title group, inc., or fnt, or their respective subsidiaries, on the one hand, and us, on the other, as a result of the parties ongoing agreements and the nature of their respective businesses. among other things, we and our subsidiaries are parties to a variety of service agreements with fnf, fnt or fnt subsidiaries. certain of our executive officers and directors will be subject to conflicts of interest with respect to these service agreements and other matters due to their relationships with fnf, fnt or their respective subsidiaries. some of our executive officers and directors own substantial amounts of fnf and fnt stock and stock options because of their relationships with fnf and fnt. such ownership could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest when our directors and officers are faced with decisions that involve fnf, fnt, or any of their respective subsidiaries. each of william p. foley, ii, daniel d. (ron) lane and cary h. thompson, who are members of our board of directors, beneficially owns shares of fnf common stock. other of our senior officers hold interests in fnf that were obtained through various employee benefit and compensation plans while at fnf and former fis. in addition, officers of fnf will provide services from time to time to us, fnt, and fnf. these persons also hold equity interests in fnf. mr. foley, the chairman of our board of directors, is also the chief executive officer and chairman of the board of directors of fnf and chairman of the board of directors of fnt. as an officer and director of these companies, he has obligations to us as well as to fnf and fnt and will have conflicts of interest with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us and fnf or any of its subsidiaries, including fnt. matters that could give rise to conflicts between us and fnf or its other subsidiaries include, among other things: past and ongoing contractual relationships involving us or our subsidiaries, on the one hand, and fnf and its subsidiaries, on the other hand, including service agreements and other arrangements with respect to the administration of tax matters, employee benefits, indemnification, and other matters; the quality and pricing of services that we have agreed to provide to fnf subsidiaries or that those entities have agreed to provide to us; sales or distributions by fnf of all or part of its ownership interest in our common stock; and business opportunities arising for either us or fnf, fnt, or their respective subsidiaries that could be pursued by either us or by fnf, fnt, or one or more of their respective subsidiaries. we seek to manage these potential conflicts through dispute resolution and other provisions of our agreements with fnf, fnt, and their respective subsidiaries and through oversight by independent members of our board of directors. however, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective or that we will be able to resolve all potential conflicts with fnf, or that the resolution of any such conflicts will be no less favorable to us than if it were dealing with an unaffiliated third party. we may lack adequate oversight because the chairman of our board of directors is also both the chief executive officer and chairman of the board of directors of fnf and the chairman of the board of directors of fnt. mr. foley, the chairman of our board of directors, is also the chairman of fnt board of directors and the chief executive officer and chairman of the board of directors of fnf. as an officer and director of multiple companies, he has obligations to us as well as fnf and fnt and may have conflicts of time with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us. as a non-executive chairman, it is expected that mr. foley will devote a minority of his time to us. if his duties as our chairman require more time than mr. foley is able to allot, then his oversight of our activities could be diminished. 16 our substantial leverage and debt service requirements may adversely affect our financial and operational flexibility. following completion of the business combination, we had total debt of approximately $3.1 billion. this high level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: the debt level makes us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse developments in our business, may cause us to have difficulty borrowing money in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or other purposes and will limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities and implement certain business strategies; we will need to use a large portion of the money we earn to pay principal and interest on our senior credit facilities, which will reduce the amount of money available to finance operations, acquisitions and other business activities, repay other indebtedness and pay shareholder dividends; some of the debt has a variable rate of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates; and we will have a higher level of debt than certain of our competitors, which may cause a competitive disadvantage and may reduce flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including increased competition. in addition, the terms of our senior credit facilities may restrict us from taking actions, such as making acquisitions or dispositions or entering into certain agreements that we might believe to be advantageous to us. the historical financial information of former fis for periods prior to march 9, 2005 may not be representative of its results as a consolidated, stand-alone company. the historical financial statements of former fis do not reflect operations as a separate stand-alone entity for the historical periods presented prior to march 9, 2005, the date on which former fis engaged in a private placement of a minority interest in its common stock and was no longer a wholly owned subsidiary of fnf. because prior to that date former fis businesses were either wholly owned subsidiaries of fnf, or were operated as divisions of wholly owned subsidiaries of fnf, former fis historical financial statements prior to that date were carved out from the consolidated financial statements of fnf using assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses directly attributable to its operations and allocations to former fis of certain corporate expenses of fnf. further, former fis historical financial statements prior to that date do not reflect the debt or interest expense former fis might have incurred if it had been a stand-alone entity. as a result of these and other factors, former fis historical financial statements for periods prior to march 9, 2005 do not necessarily reflect what its financial position and results of operations would have been if it had been operated as a stand-alone public entity during the periods covered, and may not be indicative of future results of operations or financial position as part of our combined company. 17 we may not be able to successfully integrate the businesses of certegy and former fis. the success of our recently completed business combination will depend in large part upon our ability to integrate the organizations, operations, systems and personnel of former fis and certegy. the integration of two previously independent companies is a challenging, time-consuming, and costly process. it is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with suppliers, customers, and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the business combination. in addition, successful integration of the companies will require the dedication of significant management resources, which will temporarily detract attention from our day-to-day businesses. if management is not able to integrate the organizations, operations, systems, and personnel of former fis and certegy in a timely and efficient manner, the anticipated benefits of the business combination may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. failure to achieve expected synergies could result in the benefits of the business combination not being attained. we expect that our recently completed business combination will result in beneficial synergies for us and our subsidiaries. achieving these anticipated synergies, however, will depend on a number of factors, some of which include: retention of key management, marketing, and technical personnel; correctly identifying areas where personnel and facilities can be consolidated without adverse effects on results of operations; customers not deferring purchasing decisions as a result of the business combination; our ability to increase sales of our products; and competitive conditions in the industries in which we operate. the failure to achieve anticipated synergies could result in a failure to attain expected benefits to our combined business, financial condition and operating results. our failure to successfully cross-sell products and services to our existing customer bases could result in the full potential benefits of the business combination not being achieved. while we intend to take advantage of the business combination to seek cross-selling opportunities, such cross-selling efforts may face potential challenges for various reasons, such as difficulties in coordinating and incentivizing employees within one combined company and maintaining optimal quality control, managing existing customers potential resistance to outsourcing functions to a new vendor, and other matters. if the cross-selling synergies for increased revenue do not occur, the benefits of the business combination may not be achieved. if fnf engages in the same types of businesses we conduct, our ability to successfully operate and expand our business may be limited. under the shareholders agreement entered into in connection with our business combination, fnf agreed, and agreed to cause fnt and certain of its other affiliates to agree, not to compete with us in certain significant lines of business. however, these restrictions do not cover certain other lines of business in which we will operate, such as title agency services. our mortgage origination services business provides centralized title agency services to large national lenders, and the revenues of former fis for 2005 from this business were $80.9 million. through its fnt operations, fnf provides similar national title agency services. further, although we have agreed to place all title insurance business our title agency services generate with fnt title insurers, the latter are free to deal with other third party title agents. 18 as previously noted, certain of our officers and directors are subject to conflicts of interest with respect to our business activities which compete with fnf, fnt or any of their respective subsidiaries. in addition, due to the significant resources of fnf, including financial resources, fnf could have a significant competitive advantage over us if and when we compete with them, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. sales of our shares by large, registered shareholders could adversely affect the trading price of our shares. in connection with the business combination, we entered into a registration rights agreement with the former stockholders of former fis requiring us to register the shares of our common stock that are now beneficially owned by them. consequently, we have to date registered for resale from time to time shares which collectively account for approximately 16.7% of our shares outstanding after the merger. sales of these shares, or the possibility that sales of these shares or of other shares issued in the business combination may occur in unlimited amounts and without prior notice, could adversely affect the trading price of our shares. risks related to our business if we fail to adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose customers and have difficulty attracting new customers for our products and services. the markets for our services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new services and evolving industry standards. our future success will be significantly affected by our ability to enhance our current products and services, and develop and introduce new products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers and their clients. these initiatives carry the risks associated with any new product or service development effort, including cost overruns, delays in delivery, and performance issues. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing, marketing and selling new products and services that meet these changing demands, that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, and marketing of these products and services, or that our new products and services and their enhancements will adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. for example, the specific products and services that we deliver to the electronic payments market are designed to process transactions and deliver reports and other information on those transactions at very high volumes and processing speeds. any performance issue that arises with a new product or service could result in significant processing or reporting errors. as a result of these factors, our research and development efforts could result in increased costs that could reduce our revenues and operating income if new products are not delivered timely to our customers, or a loss of revenue, or possible claims for damages if new products and services do not perform as anticipated. additionally, we currently are engaged in significant efforts to upgrade two of our most important applications: our core bank processing software and our mortgage processing software. these applications were acquired upon our acquisition of fidelity information services, inc., or fi, from alltel information services, inc. in 2003. we spent the period immediately following the acquisition discussing with key customers the changes that they would like to see made in those products. in 2004, we began the development work to implement changes required to keep pace with the marketplace and the requirements of our customers. in addition to amounts already spent, we expect to spend approximately $40.0 million on the development of our mortgage servicing platform. with respect to the core banking software, during 2005 we spent approximately $56.0 million on enhancement and integration projects, and during 2006 we expect to spend approximately $55.0 million on such projects. if we are unsuccessful in completing or gaining market acceptance of these and other upgrade efforts, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain existing customers or attract new ones. 19 we operate in a competitive business environment, and if we are unable to compete effectively our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. the market for our services is intensely competitive. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. some of our competitors have substantial resources. we face direct competition from third parties, and since many of our larger potential customers have historically developed their key applications in-house and therefore view their system requirements from a make-versus-buy perspective, we often compete against our potential customers in-house capacities. in addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. if we are unable to successfully consummate and integrate acquisitions, our results of operations may be adversely affected. as part of our growth strategy, we have made numerous acquisitions in recent years. we anticipate that we will continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses, products and services. this strategy will depend on the ability to find suitable acquisitions and finance them on acceptable terms. we may require additional debt or equity financing for future acquisitions, and doing so will be made more difficult by our substantial debt. if we are unable to acquire suitable acquisition candidates, we may experience slower growth. further, even if we successfully complete acquisitions, we will face challenges in integrating any acquired business. these challenges include eliminating redundant operations, facilities and systems, coordinating management and personnel, retaining key employees, managing different corporate cultures, and achieving cost reductions and cross-selling opportunities. there can be no assurance that we will be able to fully integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully or fully realize the potential benefits of bringing them together, and the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert our resources. decreased lending and real estate activity may reduce demand for certain of our services and adversely affect our results of operations. revenues from information services and lender services operations are closely related to the general level of real estate transactions, such as real estate sales and mortgage refinancings. real estate sales are affected by a number of factors, including mortgage interest rates, the availability of funds to finance purchases and general economic conditions. prevailing mortgage interest declined to record lows in recent years, and the volume of real estate transactions experienced record highs. however, these trends did not continue, and the volume of refinancing transactions in particular and mortgage originations in general declined in 2004 and again in 2005 from 2003 levels, resulting in reduction of revenues in some of our businesses. some of our services and related applications, including our automated title agent process that accounted for substantial revenues from our lender services operations in 2003, are currently used exclusively for refinancing transactions. our revenues in future periods will continue to be subject to these and other factors which are beyond our control and, as a result, are likely to fluctuate. our revenues from the sale of services to visa and mastercard organizations are dependent upon our continued visa and mastercard certification and financial institution sponsorship, and the loss or suspension of this certification or sponsorship could adversely affect our business. in order to provide our card services, we must be designated a certified processor by, and be a member service provider of, mastercard and be designated as an independent sales organization of visa. these designations are dependent upon our continuing adherence to the standards of the visa and mastercard associations. the member financial institutions of visa and mastercard, some of which are our competitors, set the standards with which we must comply. if we fail to comply with these standards, our designation as a certified processor, as a member service provider, or as an independent sales organization could be suspended or terminated. the termination of our member service provider status or our status as a certified processor, or 20 any changes in the visa and mastercard rules that prevent our registration or otherwise limit our ability to provide transaction processing and marketing services for the visa or mastercard organizations would result in the loss of business from visa or mastercard issuing customers, and lead to a reduction in our revenues, which would have a material adverse effect on our business . consolidation in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our revenues by eliminating some of our existing and potential customers and could make us more dependent on a more limited number of customers. there has been and continues to be substantial merger, acquisition and consolidation activity in the banking and financial services industry. mergers or consolidations of banks and financial institutions in the future could reduce the number of our customers and potential customers, which could adversely affect our revenues even if these events do not reduce the aggregate number of customers or the banking and other activities of the consolidated entities. if our customers merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our customers, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. in addition, it is possible that the larger banks or financial institutions resulting from mergers or consolidations could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. many of our customers are subject to a regulatory environment and to industry standards that may change in a manner that reduces the number of transactions in which our customers engage and therefore reduces our revenues. our customers are subject to a number of government regulations and industry standards with which our products and services must comply. for example, our products are affected by visa and mastercard electronic payment standards that are generally updated twice annually. in addition, action by regulatory authorities relating to credit availability, data usage, privacy, or other related regulatory developments could have an adverse effect on our customers and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. demand for many of our products and services is sensitive to the level of consumer transactions generated by our customers, and accordingly, our revenues could be impacted negatively by a general economic slowdown or any other event causing a material slowing of consumer spending. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from transaction processing fees. any changes in economic factors that adversely affect consumer spending and related consumer debt, or a reduction in check writing or credit and debit card usage, could reduce the volume of transactions that we process, and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. potential customers of our financial information software and services business may be reluctant to switch to a new vendor, which may adversely affect our growth, both in the u.s. and internationally. for banks and other potential customers of our financial information software and services segment, switching from one vendor of bank core processing or related software and services (or from an internally-developed system) to a new vendor is a significant undertaking. many potential customers worry about potential disadvantages such as loss of accustomed functionality, increased costs and business disruption. as a result, potential customers, both in the u.s. and internationally, often resist change. we seek to overcome this resistance through strategies such as making investments to enhance the functionality of our software. however, there can be no assurance that our strategies for overcoming potential customers reluctance to change vendors will be successful, and this resistance may adversely affect our growth, both in the u.s. and internationally. 21 we have a long sales cycle for many of our applications and if we fail to close sales after expending significant time and resources to do so, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. the implementation of many of our applications often involves significant capital commitments by our customers, particularly those with smaller operational scale. potential customers generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available software and require us to expend substantial time, effort, and money educating them as to the value of our software and services. we incur substantial costs in order to obtain each new customer. we may expend significant funds and management resources during the sales cycle and ultimately fail to close the sale. our sales cycle may be extended due to our customers budgetary constraints or for other reasons. if we are unsuccessful in closing sales after expending significant funds and management resources or we experience delays, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. to continue to grow our card issuer business profitably, we must expand our share of the credit and debit card transaction processing market and enter new markets, and the failure to do this could adversely affect our business. our domestic card issuer business is concentrated in the independent community bank and credit union segments of the market, and we have achieved a significant degree of penetration of these market segments. while we intend to continue our vigorous pursuit of expansion within these segments, future growth and profitability of this business will significantly depend upon our ability to penetrate other markets, including emerging markets for electronic transaction processing, such as international transaction processing and internet payment systems. as part of our strategy to achieve this expansion, we will continue to seek acquisition opportunities, investments, and alliance relationships that will facilitate our expansion; however, we may not be able to complete suitable acquisitions, investments or alliances, and if we do, they may not provide us with the benefits we anticipated. also, we may not have adequate financial and technological resources to develop products and distribution channels that will satisfy the demands of new markets. we may experience software defects, development delays, and installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. many of our services are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new applications and services. further, the software underlying our services has occasionally contained and may in the future contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on platforms used by our customers. defects in our software, errors, or delays in the processing of electronic transactions, or other difficulties could result in: interruption of business operations; delay in market acceptance; additional development and remediation costs; diversion of technical and other resources; loss of customers; negative publicity; or exposure to liability claims. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through disclaimers and limitation-of-liability provisions in our license and customer agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will be successful in limiting our liability. 22 security breaches or computer viruses could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation. as part of our business, we electronically receive, process, store, and transmit sensitive business information of our customers. in addition, we collect personal consumer data, such as names and addresses, social security numbers, driver license numbers, checking and savings account numbers, and payment history records. unauthorized access to our computer systems or databases could result in the theft or publication of confidential information or the deletion or modification of records or could otherwise cause interruptions in our operations. these concerns about security are increased when we transmit information over the internet. computer viruses have also been distributed and have rapidly spread over the internet. computer viruses could infiltrate our systems, disrupting our delivery of services and making our applications unavailable. any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and terminate their agreements with us, and could inhibit our ability to attract new customers. if we fail to comply with privacy regulations imposed on providers of services to financial institutions, our business could be harmed. as a provider of services to financial institutions, we are bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information we receive from our customers as apply to the financial institutions themselves. if we fail to comply with these regulations, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract or to governmental proceedings, our customer relationships and reputation could be harmed, and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new customers. in addition, if more restrictive privacy laws or rules are adopted in the future on the federal or state level, or, with respect to our international operations, by authorities in foreign jurisdictions on the national, provincial, state, or other level, that could have an adverse impact on us. if we experience system failures, the products and services we provide to our customers could be delayed or interrupted, which could harm our business and reputation and result in the loss of customers. our ability to provide reliable service in a number of our businesses depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operations of our computer network systems and data centers. our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry, and computer viruses. although we have taken steps to prevent system failures, we cannot be certain that our measures will be successful. further, our property and business interruption insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses or failures that may occur. any significant interruptions could: increase our operating expenses to correct problems caused by the interruption; harm our business and reputation; result in a loss of customers; or expose us to liability. any one or more of the foregoing occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we face liability to our merchant customers if checks that we have guaranteed are dishonored by the check writer bank. if a check that we have guaranteed is dishonored by the check writer bank, we must reimburse our merchant customer for the check face value and pursue collection of the amount from the delinquent check writer. in some cases, we recognize a liability to our merchant customers for estimated check returns and a receivable for amounts we estimate we will recover from the check writers, based on historical experience and other relevant factors. the estimated check returns and recovery amounts are subject to the risk that actual amounts returned may exceed our estimates and actual amounts recovered may be less than our estimates. 23 our outsourcing of key development functions overseas may lead to quality control issues that affect our business operations. by outsourcing development functions overseas, we may experience quality control issues in our applications offered to our markets. overseas outsourcing operations are subject to risk of quality control deficiencies due to the physical distance from our headquarters, the increased potential for instructions and guidance to be misunderstood, a lack of direct institutional control and the time and expense it will take to provide on site training. any one of these factors make it more difficult for us to maintain quality control, and the potential for quality control issues may impact our ability to maintain and or increase our customer base. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult. we cannot make any assurances that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of technology or that the agreements entered into for that purpose will be enforceable. effective trademark, service mark, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available online. misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if our applications or services are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we may be required to change our business practices and may also become subject to significant costs and monetary penalties. as our information technology applications and services develop, we may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. any claims, whether with or without merit, could: be expensive and time-consuming to defend; cause us to cease making, licensing or using applications that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; require us to redesign our applications, if feasible; divert management attention and resources; and require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies. there can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future with respect to our current or future applications and services. we may not succeed with our current and future expansion of our international operations and such failure may adversely affect our growth and results of operations. in 2005, sales outside of the u.s. represented approximately 6.7% of the revenues of former fis. additionally, approximately 16.4% of the consolidated revenues of certegy for the year ended december 31, 2005 and 38.1% of certegy consolidated assets at december 31, 2005 are associated with operations outside of the u.s. we believe there are additional opportunities to expand our international operations, and we expect to commit significant resources to expand our international sales and marketing activities. however, overall we are less well-known internationally than in the united states and have less experience with local business conditions. in addition, we will face challenges in successfully managing small operations located far from our 24 headquarters, because of the greater difficulty in overseeing and guiding operations from a distance, and we will be increasingly subject to a number of other risks and potential costs, including: political and economic instability; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and policy, the adoption of laws detrimental to our operations such as legislation relating to the collection of personal data over the internet or the adoption of laws, regulations, or treaties governing the export of encryption related software; the burdens of complying with a wide variety of other laws and regulations; failure to adequately manage currency exchange rate fluctuations; potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; potential difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables in some foreign legal systems; and general economic conditions in international markets. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future international competitors or that our relative inexperience with international operations will not limit or hinder our success. statement regarding forward-looking information the information contained in this form 10-k contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements are based on management beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. because such statements are based on expectations as to future economic performance and are not statements of fact, actual results may differ materially from those projected. we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. important factors that may affect these projections or expectations include, but are not limited to: general political, economic, and business conditions, including the possibility of intensified international hostilities, acts of terrorism, and general volatility in the capital markets; a decrease in the volume of real estate transactions such as real estate sales and mortgage refinancings, which can be caused by high or increasing interest rates, a shortage of mortgage funding, or a weak united states economy; consolidation in the mortgage lending or banking industry; security breaches of our systems and computer viruses affecting our software; the impact of competitive products and pricing; the ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates and the ability to finance such acquisitions, which depends upon the availability of adequate cash reserves from operations or of acceptable financing terms and the variability of our stock price; our ability to integrate any acquired business operations, products, clients, and personnel; changes in, or the failure to comply with, government regulations, including privacy regulations; and other risks detailed elsewhere in this risk factors section and in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission. all of these factors are difficult to predict and many are beyond our control. accordingly, while we believe these forward-looking statements to be reasonable, there can be no assurance that they will approximate actual experience or that expectations derived from them will be realized. when used in our 25 documents or oral presentations, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, objective, projection, forecast, goal, or similar words are intended to identify forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rates. certegy has a synthetic lease obligation that has a variable interest rate and, through the consummation of the merger, an unsecured revolving credit facility that had a variable interest rate; therefore, we have exposure to the impact of interest rate fluctuations. the risk was somewhat mitigated by our ability to fix the base libor rate for periods of up to six months on our revolving credit facility and by using interest 52 rate swap arrangements in relation to our synthetic lease obligation. there were no amounts outstanding under certegy revolving credit facility at december 31, 2005, while the balance on our synthetic lease obligation at december 31, 2005 was $22.4 million. we have performed an interest rate sensitivity analysis assuming a 100 basis point increase in libor for our outstanding synthetic lease obligation and the increase in interest expense would not be material. former fis is highly leveraged. as of december 31, 2005, it is paying interest on the term loan facilities at a rate of one month libor plus 1.50% to 1.75% (5.86 6.11%). at that rate, the annual interest on the remaining $1,854.0 million of debt not swapped into a fixed rate obligation, as described in item 7: management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, would be $112.8 million. a one percent increase in the libor rate would increase its annual debt service on this portion of the term loan facilities by $18.8 million. foreign currency exchange rates. approximately 16.4 percent of certegy consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2005 and 38.1 percent of its consolidated assets at december 31, 2005 are associated with operations outside of the u.s. the u.s. dollar balance sheets and statements of income for these businesses are subject to currency fluctuations. we are most vulnerable to fluctuations in the brazilian real and the british pound against the u.s. dollar. historically, we have not entered into derivative financial instruments to mitigate this risk, as it has not been cost-effective. the impact of currency fluctuations on profitability has not been significant since both revenues and operating costs of these businesses are denominated in local currency. if the u.s. dollar had a 10 percent higher appreciation against certegy non-u.s. dollar denominated businesses, consolidated revenues and operating income would have been reduced by $16.6 million and $1.2 million, respectively, in 2005, and $14.9 million and $1.3 million, respectively, in 2004. the cumulative translation adjustment, largely related to certegy investment in its brazilian card processing operation, was a $54.5 million and $58.6 million reduction of shareholders equity at december 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 53risk factors 8 risk factors. in addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the risks described herein could result in a significant adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. if we fail to adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose customers and have difficulty attracting new customers for our services. the markets for our services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new services and evolving industry standards. our future success will be significantly affected by our ability to enhance our current services, and develop and introduce new services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers and their clients. these 8 table of contents initiatives carry the risks associated with any new service development effort, including cost overruns, delays in delivery, and performance issues. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing, marketing and selling new services that meet these changing demands, that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, and marketing of these services, or that our new services and their enhancements will adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. we may experience defects, development delays, installation difficulties and system failures with respect to our technology solutions, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. many of our services are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new technology solutions and services. further, the technology solutions underlying our services have occasionally contained and may in the future contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on platforms used by our customers. finally, our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. defects in our technology solutions, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions, or other difficulties could result in: (i) interruption of business operations; (ii) delay in market acceptance; (iii) additional development and remediation costs; (iv) diversion of technical and other resources; (v) loss of customers; and (vi) negative publicity; or exposure to liability claims. any one or more of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through disclaimers and limitation-of-liability provisions in our license and customer agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will always be successful in limiting our liability. we operate in a competitive business environment, and if we are unable to compete effectively our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. the market for our services is intensely competitive. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. some of our competitors have substantial resources. we face direct competition from third parties, and since many of our larger potential customers have historically developed their key applications in-house and therefore view their system requirements from a make-versus-buy perspective, we often compete against our potential customers in-house capacities. in addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our revenues from the sale of services to members of visa, mastercard, american express and other similar organizations are dependent upon our continued certification and sponsorship, and the loss or suspension of certification or sponsorship could adversely affect our business. in order to provide our card processing services, we must be certified by visa, mastercard, american express and other similar organizations. these certifications are dependent upon our continued adherence to the standards of the issuing bodies. the member financial institutions, some of which are our competitors, set the standards with which we must comply. if we fail to comply with these standards, our certifications could be suspended or terminated. the termination of our certifications, or any changes in the rules and regulations governing visa, mastercard, american express or other similar organizations could prevent our registration or otherwise limit our ability to provide services, which could result in a reduction in revenue or increased costs of operation, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. potential customers may be reluctant to switch to a new vendor, which may adversely affect our growth, both in the u.s. and internationally. for banks and other potential customers of our financial information software and services, switching from one vendor of bank core processing or related software and services (or from an internally-developed system) to a new vendor is a significant undertaking. many potential customers worry about potential disadvantages such as loss of accustomed functionality, increased costs and business disruption. as a result, potential customers, both in the u.s. and internationally, often resist change. we seek to overcome this resistance through strategies such as making investments to enhance the functionality of our software. however, there can be no assurance that our strategies for overcoming potential customers reluctance to change vendors will be successful, and this resistance may adversely affect our growth, both in the u.s. and internationally. 9 table of contents demand for many of our services is sensitive to the level of consumer transactions generated by our customers, and accordingly, our revenues could be impacted negatively by the current recession or any other event causing a material slowing of consumer spending. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from transaction processing fees. any changes in economic factors, such as the current recession, that adversely affect consumer spending and related consumer debt, or lead to a reduction in check writing or credit and debit card usage, could reduce the volume of transactions that we process, and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have a long sales cycle for many of our applications and if we fail to close sales after expending significant time and resources to do so, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. the implementation of many of our applications often involves significant capital commitments by our customers, particularly those with smaller operational scale. potential customers generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available software and require us to expend substantial time, effort, and money educating them as to the value of our software and services. we incur substantial costs in order to obtain each new customer. we may expend significant funds and management resources during the sales cycle and ultimately fail to close the sale. our sales cycle may be extended due to our customers budgetary constraints or for other reasons. if we are unsuccessful in closing sales after expending significant funds and management resources or we experience delays, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. many of our customers are subject to a regulatory environment and to industry standards that may change in a manner that reduces the number of transactions in which our customers engage and therefore reduces our revenues. our customers are subject to a number of government regulations and industry standards with which our services must comply. for example, our services are affected by visa, mastercard, american express and electronic payment standards that are generally updated twice annually. in addition, action by regulatory authorities relating to credit availability, data usage, privacy, or other related regulatory developments could have an adverse effect on our customers and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. security breaches or our own failure to comply with privacy regulations imposed on providers of services to financial institutions could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation. as part of our business, we electronically receive, process, store and transmit sensitive business information of our customers. in addition, we collect personal consumer data, such as names and addresses, social security numbers, driver license numbers and payment history records. unauthorized access to our computer systems or databases could result in the theft or publication of confidential information or the deletion or modification of records or could otherwise cause interruptions in our operations. these concerns about security are increased when we transmit information over the internet. additionally, as a provider of services to financial institutions, we are bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information we receive from our customers as apply to the financial institutions themselves. if we fail to comply with these regulations, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract or to governmental proceedings. in addition, if more restrictive privacy laws or rules are adopted in the future on the federal or state level, that could have an adverse impact on us. any inability to prevent security or privacy breaches could cause our existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and terminate their agreements with us, and could inhibit our ability to attract new customers and/or adversely impact our relationship with administrative agencies. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult. we cannot make any assurances that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of technology or that the agreements entered into for that purpose will be enforceable. effective trademark, service mark, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available online. misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 10 table of contents we face liability to our merchant customers if checks that we have guaranteed are dishonored by the check writer bank. if a check that we have guaranteed is dishonored by the check writer bank, we must reimburse our merchant customer for the check face value and pursue collection of the amount from the check writer. in some cases, we recognize a liability to our merchant customers for estimated check returns and a receivable for amounts we estimate we will recover from the check writers, based on historical experience and other relevant factors. the estimated check returns and recovery amounts are subject to the risk that actual amounts returned may exceed our estimates and actual amounts recovered may be less than our estimates. if our applications or services are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we may be required to change our business practices and may also become subject to significant costs and monetary penalties. as our information technology applications and services develop, we may become increasingly subject to infringement claims. any claims, whether with or without merit, could: (i) be expensive and time-consuming to defend; (ii) cause us to cease making, licensing or using applications that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; (iii) require us to redesign our applications, if feasible; (iv) divert management attention and resources; and (v) require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies. our business is subject to the risks of international operations, including movements in foreign currency exchange rates. we derive a significant portion of our revenue and earnings from international operations. as a result, our financial condition and operating results could be significantly affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including u.s. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), and changes in the value of the u.s. dollar versus local currencies. in addition, we are less well-known internationally than in the united states, have less experience with local business conditions and will face challenges in successfully managing small operations located far from our headquarters, because of the greater difficulty in overseeing and guiding operations from a distance. as we expand our international operations, more of our customers may pay us in foreign currencies. conducting business in currencies other than u.s. dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. our primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relate to foreign currencies in brazil, europe, australia and parts of asia. the u.s. dollar value of our net investments in foreign operations, the periodic conversion of foreign-denominated earnings to the u.s. dollar (our reporting currency), our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, could be adversely affected in a material manner by movements in foreign currency exchange rates. during the twelve months ended december 31, 2008, approximately 17% of our revenues were denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the brazilian real, british pound and euro. these risks could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations and could cause the market value of our common stock to decline. our existing levels of leverage and debt service requirements may adversely affect our financial and operational flexibility. as of december 31, 2008, we had total debt of approximately $2.5 billion. this level of debt could have important consequences to us, including the following: (i) the debt level may cause us to have difficulty borrowing money in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes and limits our ability to pursue other business opportunities and implement certain business strategies; (ii) we use a large portion of the money we earn to pay principal and interest on our senior credit facilities, which reduces the amount of money available to finance operations, acquisitions and other business activities, repay other indebtedness and pay shareholder dividends; (iii) some of our debt has a variable rate of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates; and (iv) we have a higher level of debt than some of our competitors, which may cause a competitive disadvantage and may reduce flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including increased competition. in addition, the terms of our senior credit facilities may restrict us from taking actions, such as making significant acquisitions or dispositions or entering into certain agreements, which we might believe to be advantageous to us. if we are unable to successfully consummate and integrate acquisitions, our results of operations may be adversely affected. we have made numerous acquisitions in recent years as a part of our growth strategy. we anticipate that we will continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses and services. this strategy will depend on the ability to find suitable acquisitions and finance them 11 table of contents on acceptable terms. we may require additional debt or equity financing for future acquisitions, and doing so will be made more difficult by our existing debt. if we are unable to acquire suitable acquisition candidates, we may experience slower growth. further, after successfully completing acquisitions, we face challenges in integrating acquired businesses. these challenges include eliminating redundant operations, facilities and systems, coordinating management and personnel, retaining key employees, managing different corporate cultures, and achieving cost reductions and cross-selling opportunities. there can be no assurance that we will be able to fully integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully or fully realize the potential benefits of bringing them together, and the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert our resources. we may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect from the lps spin-off. we may not be able to achieve the strategic and financial benefits we expected to result from the lps spin-off or such benefits may be delayed. these outcomes may occur due to, among other things, the loss of synergies, excess costs the two companies will incur as stand-alone entities, or the obligations imposed on us to avoid certain transactions in respect of our capital stock in order to preserve the planned tax-free nature of the transactions. if any part of the lps spin-off is determined to be a taxable transaction, then additional taxes could be imposed on us and our shareholders. on june 20, 2008, we received a favorable private letter ruling from the internal revenue service ( irs ) regarding the contribution of our interest in the assets, liabilities, businesses and employees related to our lender processing services operations in exchange for the receipt by us of lps common stock and lps debt obligations, which we refer to as the contribution, the exchange by us of lps debt obligations for certain outstanding fis debt, which we refer to as the debt exchange, and the distribution of lps common stock to our shareholders, which we refer to as the spin-off. the irs ruling was to the effect that: (i) the contribution taking into account the spin-off will qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of section 368(a) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to as the code, in which neither we nor lps will recognize any gain or loss; (ii) no gain or loss will be recognized by us in the debt exchange, pursuant to section 361 of the code; and (iii) no gain or loss will be recognized by us or our shareholders on the spin-off, pursuant to section 355 and related provisions of the code (including section 361(c) of the code), except that any gain that our shareholders realize on cash received in lieu of any fractional shares of our common stock to which such shareholders may be entitled in the spin-off generally will be taxable to our shareholders. notwithstanding our receipt of the irs private letter ruling, the irs could determine that the contribution, debt exchange and/or spin-off constitute taxable transactions if it determines that there was a misstatement or omission of any of the facts, representations, or undertakings that were included in the request for the private letter ruling, or if it disagrees with our conclusions reached regarding certain factual requirements that, consistent with the irs standard ruling policy, were not covered by the irs ruling. if one or more of the contribution, debt exchange or spin-off transactions ultimately were determined to be subject to tax, we would recognize gain and the amount of that gain would be up to the excess of the fair market value of the lps stock and debt obligations we received in the contribution over our basis in the assets we contributed to lps in the contribution. the amount of such gain could be substantial. further, if the spin-off transaction were subject to tax, in addition to tax imposed on us, our shareholders generally would be treated as if they received a taxable distribution equal to the full fair market value of lps stock on the distribution date. in addition, we could be subject to tax on certain of the preliminary asset transfers that were made in connection with the contribution transaction. notwithstanding the favorable irs ruling that the spin-off qualified for tax-free treatment, it would become taxable to us, pursuant to section 355(e) of the code, if 50% or more of the shares of either our common stock or lps common stock were acquired, directly or indirectly, as part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the spin-off. if the irs were to determine that acquisitions of our common stock or of lps common stock, either before or after the spin-off, were part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the spin-off, this determination could result in the recognition of substantial gain by us under section 355(e). although the taxes resulting from the contribution, debt exchange or spin-off not qualifying for tax-free treatment for united states federal income tax purposes generally would be imposed on us and our shareholders, under the tax disaffiliation agreement entered into by us and lps in connection with the distribution, lps would be required to indemnify us and our affiliates against all tax related liabilities caused by the failure of any of those transactions to qualify for tax-free treatment for united states federal income tax purposes (including as a result of section 355(e) of the code) to the extent these liabilities arise as a result of any action taken by lps or any of lps affiliates following the spin-off or otherwise result from any breach of any representation, covenant or obligation of lps or any of lps affiliates under the tax disaffiliation agreement. 12 table of contents there is no guaranty that lps will have financial resources to satisfy any such indemnification obligation described above. the executive chairman of our board of directors and other officers and directors have interests and positions that could present potential conflicts. we and certain of our subsidiaries are parties to a variety of related party agreements with fnf and lps. william p. foley, ii, who is our executive chairman, is currently the chairman of the board of directors of both fnf and lps. lee a. kennedy, who serves as president and chief executive officer of our company, is also a director of lps. brent b. bickett, who is an officer of fis, is also an officer of fnf and lps. william p. foley, ii and brent b. bickett also own or hold substantial amounts of lps and fnf stock and stock options. thomas m. hagerty and richard n. massey, who are both directors of fis, are also directors of fnf. as a result of the foregoing, there may be circumstances where certain of our executive officers and directors may be subject to conflicts of interest with respect to, among other things: (i) our past and ongoing relationships with fnf and lps, including related party agreements and other arrangements with respect to the administration of tax matters, employee benefits and indemnification; (ii) the quality, pricing and other terms associated with services that we provide to fnf and lps, or that they provide to us, under related party agreements; (iii) business opportunities arising for either us, fnf or lps, that could be pursued by either us, or by fnf or lps; and (iv) conflicts of time with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting fis. we seek to manage these potential conflicts through, abstention, oversight by independent members of our board of directors and provisions in our agreements with fnf and lps. however, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective or that we will be able to resolve all potential conflicts with fnf and lps, or that the resolution of any such conflicts will be no less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated third party. we have substantial investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of prior acquisitions, and a further more severe or continued economic downturn could cause these investments to become impaired, requiring write-downs that would reduce our operating income. as of december 31, 2008, goodwill aggregated to approximately $4,194.0 million, 55.8% of total assets, and other indefinite lived intangible assets aggregated to approximately $152.0 million, 2.0% of total assets. current accounting rules require goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets to be assessed for impairment at least annually or whenever changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment. factors that may be considered a change in circumstance include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. the results of our fiscal year 2008 annual assessment of the recoverability of goodwill indicated that the fair value of the company reporting units were in excess of the carrying value of those reporting units, and thus no goodwill impairment existed as of december 31, 2008. additionally, other than with respect to our certegy check business, where we recorded an impairment charge of $52.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2008, the fair value of indefinite lived intangible assets was in excess of the carry value of those assets. however, if the current worldwide economic downturn continues, the carrying amount of our goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, and we may be required to record an impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. we will continue to monitor the fair value of our other indefinite lived intangible assets as well as our market capitalization and the impact of the current economic downturn on our business to determine if there is an impairment in future periods. consolidations and failures in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our business by eliminating some of our existing and potential customers and making us more dependent on a more limited number of customers. there has been and continues to be substantial consolidation activity in the banking and financial services industry. in addition, many financial institutions that experienced negative operating results, including some of our customers, have failed. the failures and consolidations reduce the number of our customers and potential customers, which could adversely affect our revenues even if the events do not reduce the aggregate activities of the consolidated entities. further, if our customers fail and/or merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our customers, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce use of our services. it is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidations would have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 13 table of contents losses, consolidations and failures in the financial services industry may impact our ability to borrow funds or the ability of our lenders to fulfill their obligations under our interest rate swap agreements. many financial institutions are currently experiencing negative operating results. in some cases, these negative operating results have led to financial institution failures and/or consolidations, including, in some cases, lenders that are parties to our credit agreement and interest rate swap agreements. as a result, lenders may become insolvent or tighten lending standards, which could in turn make it more difficult or impossible for lenders to perform their obligations under our interest rate swap agreements or for us to borrow under our credit agreement, obtain financing on favorable terms, or obtain financing or interest rate swap agreements at all. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if a financial institution fails to fulfill its obligations under our interest rate swap agreements or we are unable to draw funds under our credit agreement or obtain other cost-effective financing. statement regarding forward-looking information the statements contained in this form 10-k or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other statements made by our management that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, including statements regarding our expectations, hopes, intentions, or strategies regarding the future. these statements relate to, among other things, our future financial and operating results. in many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, or continue, or the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these statements as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to: general political, economic, and business conditions, including the possibility of intensified international hostilities, acts of terrorism, and general volatility in the capital markets; failures to adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace; consolidation or failures in the banking industry; consolidation or failures in the retail industry; security breaches of our systems and computer viruses affecting our software; the impact of competitive services and pricing; the ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates and the ability to finance such acquisitions, which depends upon the availability of adequate cash reserves from operations or of acceptable financing terms and the variability of our stock price; our ability to integrate any acquired business operations, services, clients, and personnel; the effect of our substantial leverage, which may limit the funds available to make acquisitions and invest in our business; changes in, or the failure to comply with, government regulations, including privacy regulations; and other risks detailed elsewhere in this risk factors section and in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission. we are not under any obligation (and expressly disclaim any such obligation) to update or alter our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you should carefully consider the possibility that actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks 29 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks market risk we are exposed to market risks primarily from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. in managing exposure to these fluctuations, we may engage in various hedging transactions that have been authorized according to documented policies and procedures. on a limited basis, we use certain derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps, to manage these risks. we do not use derivatives for trading purposes, to generate income or to engage in speculative activity. our capital costs are directly linked to financial and business risks. we seek to manage the potential negative effects from market volatility and market risk. it is our policy to manage our debt structure in order to manage capital costs, control financial risks and maintain financial flexibility over the long term. interest rate risk we have issued debt in floating rate instruments. interest rate swaps are used for the purpose of controlling interest expense by managing the mix of fixed and floating rate debt. we do not seek to make a profit from changes in interest rates. we manage interest rate sensitivity by measuring potential increases in interest expense that would result from a probable change in interest rates. when the potential increase in interest expense exceeds an acceptable amount, we reduce risk through the purchase of derivatives. as of december 31, 2008, we are paying interest on the revolving loan at libor plus 0.70% and at libor plus 0.88% on our term loan a. a one percent increase in the libor rate would increase our annual debt service on the credit agreement by $3.9 million (based on principal amounts outstanding at december 31, 2008, net of interest rate swaps). the credit rating assigned to fis by standard poor was bb at december 31, 2008. we have entered into the following interest rate swap transactions converting a portion of the interest rate exposure on our term and revolving loans from variable to fixed (in millions): bank pays fis pays effective date termination date notional amount variable rate of(1) fixed rate of(2) october 11, 2007 october 11, 2009 $ 1,000.0 1 month libor 4.73 % december 11, 2007 december 11, 2009 250.0 1 month libor 3.80 % april 11, 2007 april 11, 2010 850.0 1 month libor 4.92 % $ 2,100.0 (1) 1.64% in effect at december 31, 2008 under the agreements. (2) in addition to the fixed rates paid under the swaps, we pay an applicable margin to our bank lenders on the term loan a of 0.88% and the revolving loan of 0.70% (plus a facility fee of 0.18%) as of december 31, 2008. 29 table of contents we are subject to foreign exchange risk for foreign currency-denominated transactions, such as debt issued, recognized payables and receivables and forecasted transactions. changes in foreign currency exchange rates also affect translations of revenues denominated in currencies other than u.s. dollars. our international operations generated approximately $760.0 million in revenues in 2008, of which approximately $614.0 million was denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the major currencies that we are exposed to are the brazilian real, the euro and the british pound sterling. a 5% move in average exchange rates for these currencies would have had the following effect on 2008 reported revenues: impact on revenues in u.s. currency dollars (millions) real $ 13.0 euro 10.0 pound sterling 4.0 total impact $ 27.0 in the future, we may enter into agreements to hedge our risks against foreign currency movements, but historically we have not entered into any such agreements. however, any hedging strategies may not be successful, and any future un-hedged foreign exchange payments could be subject to market fluctuations. 30 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors. in addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the risks described herein could result in a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. risks related to our markets and industry consolidations and business failures in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our business by eliminating some of our existing and potential customers and making us more dependent on a more limited number of customers. there has been and continues to be substantial consolidation activity in the banking and financial services industry. in addition, many financial institutions that experienced negative operating results, including some of our customers, have failed. the consolidations and failures reduce the number of our potential customers and may reduce the number of our customers, which could adversely affect our revenues, even if the events do not reduce the aggregate activities of the consolidated entities. further, if our customers fail and/or merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our customers, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce use of our services. it is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidations would have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose customers and have difficulty attracting new customers for our services. the markets for our services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new services and evolving industry standards. our future success will be significantly affected by our ability to enhance our current services, and develop and introduce new services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers and their clients. these initiatives carry the risks associated with any new service development effort, including cost overruns, delays in delivery, and performance issues. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing, marketing and selling new services that meet these changing demands, that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, and marketing of these services, or that our new services and their enhancements will adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. any of these developments could have an adverse impact on our future revenues and/or business prospects. we operate in a competitive business environment, and if we are unable to compete effectively our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. the market for our services is intensely competitive. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. some of our competitors have substantial resources. we face direct competition from third parties, and since many of our larger potential customers have historically developed their key applications in-house and therefore view their system requirements from a make-versus-buy perspective, we often compete against our potential customers' in-house capacities. in addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. see "item i. business. competition." global economic, political and other conditions including business cycles and consumer confidence may adversely affect our customers or trends in consumer spending, which may adversely impact the demand for our services and our revenue and profitability. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from transaction processing fees. the global transaction processing industries depend heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. any change in economic factors including a sustained deterioration in general economic conditions or consumer confidence, particularly in the united 11 table of contents states, or increases in interest rates in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer spending including related consumer debt, reduce check writing, change credit and debit card usage, and may adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions that we service. constraints within global financial markets or international regulatory requirements could constrain our financial institution customers working or available capital, reducing their ability to purchase our services and impacting our future growth and profitability. a significant number of our customers or potential customers may hold sovereign debt or be subject to emerging international requirements such as basel iii, which could require changes in their capitalization and hence free working capital to purchase our services. these organizations could have their capital constrained if the value of sovereign debt of nations such as greece, spain, italy, ireland or portugal continues to decline, if additional countries default on their debt, or if emerging regulatory requirements such as basel iii require institutions to alter their capital structures. these potential constraints could alter the ability of customers or potential customers to purchase our services and thus could have a significant impact on our future growth and profitability. potential customers may be reluctant to switch to a new vendor, which may adversely affect our growth. for banks and other potential customers of our financial information software and services, switching from one vendor of bank core processing or related software and services (or from an internally-developed system) to a new vendor is a significant undertaking. many potential customers perceive potential disadvantages such as loss of accustomed functionality, increased costs (including conversion costs) and business disruption. as a result, potential customers may resist change. we seek to overcome this resistance through value enhancing strategies such as a defined conversion process, system integration including bundling additional services and making ongoing investments to enhance the functionality of our software. however, there can be no assurance that our strategies for overcoming potential customers' reluctance to change vendors will be successful, and this resistance may adversely affect our growth. the sales and implementation cycles for many of our software and services can be lengthy and require significant investment from both our customers and fis. if we fail to close sales or if a customer chooses not to complete an installation after expending significant time and resources to do so, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. the sales and associated deployment of many of our software or services often involve significant capital commitments by our customers and/or fis. potential customers generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available software and services and require us to expend substantial time, effort, and money educating them as to the value. further, as part of the sale or deployment of our software and services, customers may also require fis to perform significant related services to complete a proof of concept or custom development to meet their needs. all of the aforementioned activities may expend significant funds and management resources and ultimately the customer may determine not to close the sale or complete the implementation. if we are unsuccessful in closing sales or if the customer decides not to complete an implementation after expending significant funds and management resources or we experience delays, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. failure to obtain new clients or renew client contracts on favorable terms could result in a lower number or loss of clients and adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. we may face pricing pressure in obtaining and retaining our larger clients. larger clients may be able to seek price reductions from us when they renew a contract, when a contract is extended, or when the client's business has significant volume changes. further, our smaller and mid-size clients may exert pricing pressure due to pricing competition or other economic needs or pressures being experienced by the customer. on some occasions, this pricing pressure results in lower revenue from a client than we had anticipated based on our previous agreement with that client. this reduction in revenue could result in an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. further, failure to renew client contracts on favorable terms could have an adverse effect on our business. our contracts with customers generally run for several years and provide for early termination fees. terms are generally renegotiated prior to the end of a contract's term. if we are not successful in achieving a high rate of contract renewals on favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. risks related to our business and operations we may experience defects, development delays, installation difficulties, system failure, or other service disruptions with 12 table of contents respect to our technology solutions, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. many of our services are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new technology solutions and services. further, the technology solutions underlying our services have occasionally contained and may in the future contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on platforms used by our customers or our customers may cancel a project after we have expended significant effort and resources to complete an installation. finally, our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. defects in our technology solutions, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions, or other difficulties could result in: (i) interruption of business operations; (ii) delay in market acceptance; (iii) additional development and remediation costs; (iv) diversion of technical and other resources; (v) loss of customers; (vi) negative publicity; or (vii) exposure to liability claims. any one or more of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through controls including system redundancies, security controls, application development and testing controls and disclaimers and limitation-of-liability provisions in our license and customer agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will always be successful in preventing disruption or limiting our liability. the dodd-frank act may result in business changes for our customers that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, or prospects for future growth and overall business . our customers, and as a result our associated software and services, are required to comply with numerous regulations. the dodd-frank act and associated durbin amendment were passed and signed into law in 2010. the dodd-frank act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the financial services industry within the united states, establishes the new consumer financial protection bureau and will require this and other federal agencies to implement many new regulations, including the potential to increase the amount and types of regulation on areas of our business that were not previously regulated. the durbin amendment established interchange fee ceilings and allows merchants to direct routing of transactions, both effective october 1, 2011, and establishes provisions which require all issuers to utilize at least two unaffiliated networks for processing, which will be effective april, 1, 2012. these changes may alter the nature or type of card programs offered by our customers, which could have an ongoing impact to our future growth or revenue for debit cards or other card programs. further, these changes could impact the volume or dollar amount of transactions that are routed through our network, which could alter the number of transactions that we process and could have an impact on our future processing fee revenue. several new regulations and rules will be written and implemented as directed by the aforementioned legislation throughout 2012 and beyond and these new rules and regulations will require our customers or potential customers to comply with new requirements and could require fis to directly comply with new regulations. see "item i. business. government regulation" for more information regarding certain of these new requirements. these new requirements could result in the need for fis to make capital investments to modify our products and services to facilitate our customers and potential customers' compliance, as well as to deploy additional processes or reporting to comply with new regulations. further, requirements of the new regulations could result in changes in our customers' business practices and those of other marketplace participants that may alter the delivery of services to consumers which could impact the demand for our software and services as well as alter the type or volume of transactions that we process on behalf of our customers. as a result, the new legislation could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. many of our customers are subject to a regulatory environment and to industry standards that may change in a manner that reduces the number of transactions in which our customers engage and therefore reduces our revenues. our customers are subject to a number of government regulations and industry standards with which our services must comply. our customers must ensure that our services and related products work within the extensive and evolving regulatory and industry requirements applicable to them. federal, state, foreign or industry authorities could adopt laws, rules or regulations affecting our customers' businesses that could lead to increased operating costs and could reduce the convenience and functionality of our products and services, possibly resulting in reduced market acceptance. in addition, action by regulatory authorities relating to credit availability, data usage, privacy, or other related regulatory developments could have an adverse effect on our customers and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. regulations enacted by the consumer financial protection bureau may require fis to enact new business practices which may require capital investment which could impact our future operating results. the consumer financial protection bureau will regulate non-financial institutions and providers to those organizations. 13 table of contents the consumer financial protection bureau is establishing its regulatory agenda and will likely pass additional rules for regulating non-financial institution providers to ensure adequate protection of consumer privacy and to ensure consumers are not impacted by deceptive business practices. the impact of these rules may require fis or its subsidiaries to be subject to additional regulation and adopt additional business practices which could require additional capital expenditures or impact our operating results. our revenues from the sale of services to members of visa, mastercard, american express, discover and other similar organizations are dependent upon our continued certification and sponsorship, and the loss or suspension of certification or sponsorship could adversely affect our business. in order to provide our card processing services, we must be certified (including applicable sponsorship) by visa, mastercard, american express, discover and other similar organizations. these certifications are dependent upon our continued adherence to the standards of the issuing bodies and sponsoring member banks. the member financial institutions, some of which are our competitors, set the standards with which we must comply. if we fail to comply with these standards we could be fined, our certifications could be suspended, or our registration could be terminated. the suspension or termination of our certifications, or any changes in the rules and regulations governing visa, mastercard, american express, discover, or other similar organizations could prevent our registration or otherwise limit our ability to provide services, which could result in a reduction in revenue or increased costs of operation, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. changes in card association and debit network fees or products could increase costs or otherwise limit our operations. from time to time, card associations and debit networks increase the interchange fees that they charge. it is possible that competitive pressures will result in our absorption of a portion of such increases in the future, which would increase our operating costs, reduce our profit margin and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operation. furthermore, the rules and regulations of the various card associations and networks prescribe certain capital requirements. any increase in the capital level required would further limit our use of capital for other purposes. interchange fees and related practices have been receiving significant legal and regulatory scrutiny worldwide. the resulting regulatory changes that could occur from proposed regulations could alter the fees charged by card associations and debit networks worldwide. the impact from the regulations could change from time to time and the resulting changes in fees could impact the card issuance or services offered by our customers, which could have an adverse impact to our business or financial condition due to reductions or changes in types of transactions processed on behalf of our customers. see "item i. business. government regulation" for more information. if we fail to comply with applicable regulations or to meet regulatory expectations, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely impacted. the majority of our data processing services for financial institutions are not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. however, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, our data processing operations are examined on a regular basis by various federal and state regulatory authorities. if we fail to comply with any applicable regulations or guidelines for operations of a data services provider, we could be subject to regulatory actions or rating changes, may not meet contractual obligations, or suffer harm to our client relationships or reputation. failure to meet the aforementioned requirements or to adapt to new requirements at the federal, state or international level could inhibit our ability to retain existing customers or obtain new customers, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition to our data processing services described above, we also have business operations that store, process or transmit consumer information or have direct relationships with consumers that are obligated to comply with regulations including, but not limited to, the fair credit reporting act, the debt collection practices act and applicable privacy requirements. further, our international businesses must comply with applicable u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act. failure to maintain compliance with or adapt to changes in any of the aforementioned requirements could result in fines, penalties or regulatory actions that could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. security breaches or our own failure to comply with laws and regulations and industry security requirements imposed on providers of services to financial institutions and card processing services could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation. as part of our business, we electronically receive, process, store and transmit sensitive business information of our customers. in addition, we collect personal consumer data, such as names and addresses, social security numbers, driver's 14 table of contents license numbers, cardholder data and payment history records to support our customers transaction processing, as well as part of our check authorization and collection businesses . the uninterrupted operation of our information systems and the confidentiality of the customer/consumer information that resides on such systems are critical to our successful operation. if we fail to maintain an adequate security infrastructure, adapt to emerging security threats, or implement sufficient security standards and technology to protect against security breaches the confidentiality of the information we secure could be compromised. unauthorized access to our computer systems or databases could result in the theft or publication of confidential information, the deletion or modification of records or could otherwise cause interruptions in our operations. these risks are increased when we transmit information over the internet and due to increasing security risks posed by organized crime and politically motivated hackers. the company experienced a security breach in 2011 (see note 19 to the consolidated financial statements). any additional breach could result in significant remediation costs, increased cybersecurity protection costs, lost revenues, litigation and reputational damage. unauthorized access can also result in financial losses; for example, we reported a loss of approximately $13.0 million during the first quarter of 2011 related to unauthorized activities involving one client and twenty-two prepaid card accounts on our sunrise platform. at that time, we identified approximately 7,200 prepaid accounts that may have been at risk and that three individual cardholders' non-public information may have been disclosed as a result of the unauthorized activities. fis worked with the clients to take appropriate action including blocking and reissuing potentially impacted cards for the affected accounts. we have continued to monitor these accounts. no financial institutions or financial institution customers suffered any financial loss as a result of the attack. see business - government regulation for specific steps we intend to take. however, there can be no assurance that these steps will eliminate the possibility that unauthorized access could occur. further, as a provider of services to financial institutions and card processing services, we are bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information we receive from our customers as apply to the customers themselves. if we fail to comply with these regulations and industry security requirements, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract, governmental proceedings or the imposition of fines, or prohibitions on card processing services. in addition, if more restrictive privacy laws, rules or industry security requirements are adopted in the future on the federal or state level or by a specific industry body, they could have an adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on business processes. any inability to prevent security or privacy breaches, or the perception that such breaches may occur, could cause our existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and terminate their agreements with us, inhibit our ability to attract new customers and/or result in increasing regulation or other adverse consequences from the government agencies that regulate our business. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult. we cannot make any assurances that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of technology or that the agreements entered into for that purpose will be enforceable. effective trademark, service mark, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available online. misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if our applications or services are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we may be required to change our business practices and may also become subject to significant costs and monetary penalties. as our information technology applications and services develop, we are increasingly subject to infringement claims. any claims, whether with or without merit, could: (i) be expensive and time-consuming to defend; (ii) result in an injunction or other equitable relief which could cause us to cease making, licensing or using applications that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; (iii) require us to redesign our applications, if feasible; (iv) divert management's attention and resources; and (v) require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies or pay damages resulting from any infringing use. we face liability to our merchant customers if checks that we have guaranteed are dishonored by the check writer's bank. if a check that we have guaranteed is dishonored by the check writer's bank, we must reimburse our merchant customer for the check's face value and pursue collection of the amount from the check writer. in some cases, we recognize a liability to our merchant customers for estimated check returns and a receivable for amounts we estimate we will recover from the check writers, based on historical experience and other relevant factors. the estimated check returns and recovery amounts are subject to the risk that actual amounts returned may exceed our estimates and actual amounts recovered may be less than our estimates. 15 table of contents lack of system integrity, fraudulent payments, credit quality related to funds settlement or the availability of clearing services could result in a financial loss. we settle funds on behalf of financial institutions, other businesses and consumers and receive funds from clients, card issuers, payment networks and consumers on a daily basis for a variety of transaction types. transactions facilitated by us include debit card, credit card, electronic bill payment transactions, automated clearing house ( ach ) payments and check clearing that supports consumers, financial institutions and other businesses. these payment activities rely upon the technology infrastructure that facilitates the verification of activity with counterparties, the facilitation of the payment as well as the detection or prevention of fraudulent payments. if the continuity of operations, integrity of processing, or ability to detect or prevent fraudulent payments were compromised this could result in a financial loss to us. in addition, we rely on various financial institutions to provide ach services in support of funds settlement for certain of our products. if we are unable to obtain such ach services in the future, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. in addition, we may issue credit to consumers, financial institutions or other businesses as part of the funds settlement. a default on this credit by a counterparty could result in a financial loss to us. furthermore, if one of our customers for which we facilitate settlement suffers a fraudulent event due to an error of their controls, we may suffer a financial loss if the customer does not have sufficient capital to cover the loss. our business is subject to the risks of international operations, including movements in foreign currency exchange rates. our international operations represent approximately 20% of total 2011 revenues, with approximately 18% of our total revenues conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the brazilian real, british pound and euro. as a result, our financial condition and operating results could be significantly affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including u.s. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), differences in business practices and changes in the value of the u.s. dollar versus local currencies. in addition, we are less well-known internationally than in the united states, have less experience with local business conditions and may face challenges in successfully managing small operations located far from our headquarters, because of the greater difficulty in overseeing and guiding operations from a distance. as we expand our international operations, more of our customers may pay us in foreign currencies. conducting business in currencies other than u.s. dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. our primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relates to foreign currencies in brazil, europe, australia and parts of asia. the u.s. dollar value of our net investments in foreign operations, the periodic conversion of foreign-denominated earnings to the u.s. dollar (our reporting currency), our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, could be adversely affected in a material manner by movements in foreign currency exchange rates. these risks could cause an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. failure to attract and retain skilled technical employees or senior management personnel could harm our ability to grow. our future success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled technical personnel. because the development of our products and services requires knowledge of computer hardware, operating system software, system management software and application software, our technical personnel must be proficient in a number of disciplines. competition for such technical personnel is intense, and our failure to hire and retain talented personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. our future growth will also require sales and marketing, financial and administrative personnel to develop and support new products and services, to enhance and support current products and services and to expand operational and financial systems. there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our growth strategies and we may experience constraints that could adversely affect our ability to satisfy client demand in a timely fashion. our ability to maintain compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations and to manage and monitor the risks facing our business relies upon the ability to maintain skilled compliance, security, risk and audit professionals. competition for such skillsets is intense, and our failure to hire and retain talented personnel could have an adverse effect on our internal control environment and impact our operating results. our senior management team has significant experience in the financial services industry, either at fis or with clients or competitors, and the loss of this leadership could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. further, the loss of this leadership may have an adverse impact on senior management's ability to provide effective oversight and strategic direction for all key functions within the company which could impact future business, operating results and financial condition. 16 table of contents we are the subject of various legal proceedings that could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. we are involved in various litigation matters, including in some cases class-action and patent infringement litigation, and also are involved in or the subject of governmental or regulatory agency inquiries or investigations from time to time. if we are unsuccessful in our defense in the litigation matters, or compliance with any governmental or regulatory rules, we may be forced to pay damages or fines and/or change our business practices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax expense. our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. an unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, and could negatively impact our effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the current and/or future periods. the chairman of our board of directors and other officers and directors have interests and positions that could present potential conflicts. we and certain of our subsidiaries are parties to a variety of related party agreements and relationships with fnf. william p. foley, ii, who is our chairman, is currently the chairman of the board of directors of fnf. brent b. bickett and michael l. gravelle, who are executive officers of fis, are also executive officers of fnf. william p. foley, ii, brent b. bickett and michael l. gravelle also own or hold substantial amounts of fnf stock and stock options. thomas m. hagerty and richard n. massey, who are both directors of fis, are also directors of fnf. as a result of the foregoing, there may be circumstances where certain of our executive officers and directors may be subject to conflicts of interest with respect to, among other things: (i) our ongoing relationship with fnf, including related party agreements and other arrangements with respect to the administration of tax matters, employee benefits and indemnification; (ii) the quality, pricing and other terms associated with services that we provide to fnf, or that fnf provides to us, under related party agreements; (iii) business opportunities arising for either us or fnf, that could be pursued by either us or by fnf; and (iv) conflicts of time with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting fis. we seek to manage these potential conflicts through abstention, oversight by independent members of our board of directors and provisions in our agreements with fnf. however, there can be no assurance that such measures will be effective or that we will be able to resolve all potential conflicts with fnf, or that the resolution of any such conflicts will be no less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated third party. our agreements with related parties may be more or less favorable than agreements negotiated at arm's-length with independent parties. we have entered into various agreements with certain related parties, including, without limitation, fnf and ceridian corporation, pursuant to which we will provide services to each such related party as a client. we believe the amount earned from or charged by us under each such arrangement is fair and reasonable, and that our service arrangements are priced within the range of prices we offer to third parties; however, the amounts we earned or that were charged under these arrangements were not negotiated at arm's-length, and may not represent the terms that we might have obtained from an unrelated third party for similar services. any inferior terms that such agreements may contain as compared to agreements negotiated with unrelated third parties may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. risks related to business combinations if we are unable to successfully consummate and integrate acquisitions, our results of operations may be adversely affected. we have made numerous acquisitions in recent years as a part of our growth strategy. we anticipate that we will continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses and services. this strategy will depend on the ability to find suitable acquisitions and finance them on acceptable terms. we may require additional debt or equity financing for future acquisitions, and doing so may be made more difficult by our existing debt. if we are unable to acquire suitable acquisition candidates, we may experience slower growth. further, after successfully completing acquisitions, we face challenges in integrating acquired businesses. these challenges include eliminating redundant operations, facilities and systems, coordinating management and personnel, retaining key employees, managing different corporate cultures, and achieving cost reductions and cross-selling opportunities. there can 17 table of contents be no assurance that we will be able to fully integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully or fully realize the potential benefits of bringing them together, and the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert our resources. we have a substantial investment in our brazilian venture and drive significant revenue through that venture that would be lost and result in significant termination costs if our venture partner were to terminate the agreement. revenue attributable to our brazilian venture partner, banco bradesco, accounted for $300.2 million in 2011. the brazilian venture processes over 50 million cards and is continuing to grow. the contract that we have with our brazilian venture partner allows for the termination of the contract at any point during the ten year term. this risk of contract termination is mitigated by guaranteed performance targets and minimum payments that would be triggered upon the event of a termination. these payments have been established based on fis' expected rate of return for the contract over a 10-year period. the required payments and buyouts decline each year and are further reduced by returns in excess of the expected returns for the contract and reduce the overall barrier to exiting the venture. if our partner were to exit the agreement, this could have a significant impact on our future revenue and growth. for further detail on our brazilian venture see note 6. additionally, we employ approximately 10,000 employees in brazil who would have the ability to file labor claims if their employment is terminated. if our brazilian venture partner were to terminate the agreement, we may be subject to labor claims filed by employees of the venture. these claims, if realized, could result in a significant cost and impact to our earnings. we have substantial investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of prior acquisitions, and a severe or extended economic downturn could cause these investments to become impaired, requiring write-downs that would reduce our operating income. as of december 31, 2011 , goodwill aggregated to $8,542.8 million , or 61.7% of total assets, and other indefinite lived intangible assets aggregated to $81.0 million , or 0.6% of total assets. current accounting rules require goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets to be assessed for impairment at least annually or whenever changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment. factors that may be considered a change in circumstance include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. the results of our fiscal year 2011 annual assessment of the recoverability of goodwill indicated that the fair values of the company's reporting units were in excess of the carrying values of those reporting units, and thus no goodwill impairment existed as of december 31, 2011 . with the exception of the capco trademark in north america (see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements), the fair value of indefinite lived intangible assets was in excess of the carrying value of those assets. however, if worldwide or united states economic conditions decline significantly with negative impacts to bank spending and consumer behavior , or if other business or market changes impact our outlook , the carrying amount of our goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets may no longer be recoverable and we may be required to record an impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. as of december 31, 2011 , intangible assets with definite useful lives aggregated to $1,822.3 million , or 13.2% of total assets. current accounting rules require intangible assets with definite useful lives to be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. factors that may be considered a change in circumstance include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. we will continue to monitor the fair value of our other intangible assets as well as our market capitalization and the impact of any economic downturn on our business to determine if there is an impairment in future periods. risks related to our indebtedness losses, consolidations and failures in the financial services industry may impact our ability to borrow funds or the ability of our lenders to fulfill their obligations under our interest rate swap agreements. many financial institutions are currently experiencing negative operating results. in some cases, these negative operating results have led to financial institution failures and/or consolidations. as a result, lenders may become insolvent or further tighten lending standards, which could in turn make it more difficult or impossible for lenders to perform their obligations under our interest rate swap agreements or for us to borrow under our credit agreement, obtain financing on favorable terms, or obtain financing or interest rate swap agreements at all. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely 18 table of contents affected if a financial institution fails to fulfill its obligations under our interest rate swap agreements or we are unable to draw funds under our credit agreement or obtain other cost-effective financing. our existing levels of debt and debt service requirements may adversely affect our financial condition or operational flexibility and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. as of december 31, 2011 , we had total debt of approximately $4,809.8 million . this level of debt could have adverse consequences for our business, financial condition, operating results and operational flexibility, including the following: (i) the debt level may cause us to have difficulty borrowing money in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; (ii) our debt level may limit operational flexibility and our ability to pursue business opportunities and implement certain business strategies; (iii) we use a large portion of our operating cash flow to pay principal and interest on our senior secured credit facilities and interest on our notes, which reduces the amount of money available to finance operations, acquisitions and other business activities, repay other indebtedness, purchase our outstanding stock and pay shareholder dividends; (iv) some of our debt has a variable rate of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates; (v) we have a higher level of debt than some of our competitors or potential competitors, which may cause a competitive disadvantage and may reduce flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including increased competition and vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions ; (vi) there are significant maturities on our debt that we may not be able to fulfill or that may be refinanced at higher rates; and (vii) if we fail to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding debt or fail to comply with the financial or other restrictive covenants contained in the indenture governing our notes, or our senior secured credit facility, an event of default could result that would cause all of our debt to become due and payable and could permit the lenders under our senior secured credit facility to foreclose on the assets securing such debt. the covenants relating to our notes and the fis credit agreement are limited and do not prohibit us from incurring additional debt or taking other actions that could exacerbate the risks described in the preceding risk factor or otherwise negatively impact holders of our notes. we may be able to incur substantially more debt in the future. although the indenture governing our notes and the agreements governing the fis credit agreement and other indebtedness each contain restrictions on our incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. as of december 31, 2011 , we had approximately $824.0 million of borrowing capacity available under our existing fis credit agreement. to the extent new debt is added to our current levels, the risks described above could substantially increase. statement regarding forward-looking information the statements contained in this form 10-k or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other statements made by our management that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, including statements regarding our expectations, hopes, intentions, or strategies regarding the future. these statements relate to, among other things, future events and our future results and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. any statements that refer to beliefs, expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances and other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. in many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, or continue, or the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements. the risks and uncertainties that forward-looking statements are subject to include without limitation: changes in or continued difficulties in general economic, business and political conditions, including the possibility of intensified international hostilities, acts of terrorism, and changes and conditions in either or both the united states and international lending, capital and financial markets; the effect of legislative initiatives or proposals, statutory changes, governmental or other applicable regulations and/or changes in industry requirements, including privacy regulations; the effects of our substantial leverage which may limit the funds available to make acquisitions and invest in our business; the risks of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in or new laws or regulations affecting the banking, retail and financial services industries or due to financial failures or 19 table of contents other setbacks suffered by firms in those industries; changes in the growth rates of the markets for core processing, card issuer, and transaction processing services; failures to adapt our services and products to changes in technology or in the marketplace; internal or external security breaches of our systems, including those relating to the theft of personal information and computer viruses affecting our software or platforms, and the reactions of customers, card associations and others to any such future events; the failure to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect from acquisitions; our potential inability to find suitable acquisition candidates or finance such acquisitions, which depends upon the availability of adequate cash reserves from operations or of acceptable financing terms and the variability of our stock price, or difficulties in integrating past and future acquired technology or business' operations, services, clients and personnel; competitive pressures on product pricing and services including the ability to attract new, or retain existing, customers; an operational or natural disaster at one of our major operations centers; and other risks detailed elsewhere in this risk factors section and in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission. other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. these forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. except as required by applicable law or regulation, we do not undertake (and expressly disclaim) any obligation and do not intend to publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you should carefully consider the possibility that actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks 38 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks market risk we are exposed to market risks primarily from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we use certain derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward exchange contracts, to manage interest rate and foreign currency risk. we do not use derivatives for trading purposes, to generate income or to engage in speculative activity. interest rate risk in addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by operating activities, we use fixed rate and variable rate debt to finance our operations. we are exposed to interest rate risk on these debt obligations and related interest rate swaps. 38 table of contents the notes represent substantially all of our fixed-rate long-term debt obligations. the carrying value of the notes was $1,250.0 million as of december 31, 2011 . the fair value of the notes was approximately $1,362.5 million as of december 31, 2011 . the potential reduction in fair value of the notes from a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates would not be material to the overall fair value of the debt. we currently have no plans to repurchase the notes before their maturity and, therefore, fluctuations in market interest rates would not have an effect on our results of operations or financial condition. our floating rate long-term debt obligations principally relate to borrowings under the fis credit agreement. as of december 31, 2011 , we are paying interest on our term loan a-2 of libor plus 2.25% , and on our term loan b at libor plus 3.25% (with libor subject to a 1.00% floor). interest on the revolving loan is generally payable at libor plus an applicable margin of up to 2.50% and is subject to an unused commitment fee of up to 0.50% , each based upon the company's leverage ratio. an increase of 100 basis points in the libor rate would increase our annual debt service under the fis credit agreement, after we include the impact of our interest rate swaps, by $12.9 million (based on principal amounts outstanding as of december 31, 2011 ). we performed the foregoing sensitivity analysis based on the principal amount of our floating rate debt as of december 31, 2011 , less the principal amount of such debt that was then subject to an interest rate swap converting such debt into fixed rate debt. this sensitivity analysis is based solely on the principal amount of such debt as of december 31, 2011 , and does not take into account any changes that occurred in the prior 12 months or that may take place in the next 12 months in the amount of our outstanding debt or in the notional amount of outstanding interest rate swaps in respect of our debt. further, in this sensitivity analysis, the change in interest rates is assumed to be applicable for an entire year. for comparison purposes, based on principal amounts on the revolving loan and term loans a-1 and a-2 and old term loan b outstanding as of december 31, 2010 , and calculated in the same manner as set forth above, an increase of 100 basis points in the libor rate would have increased our annual interest expense, after we calculate the impact of our interest rate swaps, by $3.4 million . we use interest rate swaps for the purpose of managing our interest expense through the mix of fixed rate and floating rate debt. during the year ended december 31, 2011 , the notional amount of our outstanding interest rate swaps decreased by $1,100.0 million . as of december 31, 2011 , we have entered into the following interest rate swap transactions converting a portion of the interest rate exposure on our term and revolving loan from variable to fixed (in millions): effective date termination date notional amount bank pays variable rate of fis pays fixed rate of february 1, 2008 february 1, 2012 200.0 three month libor (1) 3.87 % (3) february 1, 2008 february 1, 2012 200.0 three month libor (1) 3.44 % (3) november 1, 2010 november 1, 2012 150.0 one month libor (2) 0.50 % (3) february 1, 2011 february 1, 2013 200.0 one month libor (2) 0.62 % (3) may 3, 2011 may 1, 2013 400.0 one month libor (2) 0.73 % (3) september 1, 2011 september 1, 2014 150.0 one month libor (2) 0.74 % (3) september 1, 2011 september 1, 2014 150.0 one month libor (2) 0.74 % (3) september 1, 2011 september 1, 2014 300.0 one month libor (2) 0.72 % (3) $ 1,750.0 ________________________ (1) 0.58% in effect as of december 31, 2011 . (2) 0.30% in effect as of december 31, 2011 . (3) does not include the applicable margin and facility fees paid to bank lenders on term loan a-2 and revolving loan as described above. we have designated these interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. a portion of the amount included in accumulated other comprehensive earnings is reclassified into interest expense as a yield adjustment as interest payments are made on the term and revolving loans. in accordance with the authoritative guidance for fair value measurements, the inputs used to determine the estimated fair value of our interest rate swaps are level 2-type measurements. we considered our own credit risk and the credit risk of the counterparties when determining the fair value of our interest rate swaps. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. these risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, transaction gains and losses associated with intercompany loans with foreign 39 table of contents subsidiaries and transactions denominated in currencies other than a location's functional currency. our objective is to minimize our exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. contracts are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. our exposure to foreign currency exchange risks generally arises from our non-u.s. operations, to the extent they are conducted in local currency. changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect translations of revenues denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. our international operations generated approximately $1,177.6 million in revenues during the year ended december 31, 2011 of which approximately $1,005.8 million was denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the major currencies to which we are exposed are the brazilian real, the euro and the british pound sterling. a 10% move in average exchange rates for these currencies (assuming a simultaneous and immediate 10% change in all of such rates for the relevant period) would have resulted in the following increase or decrease in our reported revenues for the years ended december 31, 2011 , 2010 and 2009 (in millions): currency 2011 2010 2009 real $ 42.4 $ 32.5 $ 28.2 euro 26.4 18.6 19.1 pound sterling 17.6 9.0 6.4 total impact $ 86.4 $ 60.1 $ 53.7 the impact on earnings of the foregoing assumed 10% change in each of the periods presented would not have been significant. revenue included $47.4 million and operating income included $8.2 million of favorable foreign currency impact during the year ended december 31, 2011 resulting from a weaker u.s. dollar during the 2011 period compared to 2010 . our foreign exchange risk management policy permits the use of derivative instruments, such as forward contracts and options, to reduce volatility in our results of operations and/or cash flows resulting from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. our international operations' revenues and expenses are generally denominated in local currency, which limits the economic exposure to foreign exchange risk in those jurisdictions. we do not enter into foreign currency derivative instruments for trading purposes. we entered into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency exposure to intercompany loans. as of december 31, 2011 , the notional amount of these derivatives was approximately $59.4 million and the fair value was nominal. these derivatives are intended to hedge the foreign exchange risks related to intercompany loans but have not been designated as hedges for accounting purposes. 40 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors. in addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the risks described herein could result in a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. risks related to our business and operations consolidations and business failures in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our business by eliminating some of our existing and potential customers and making us more dependent on a more limited number of customers. there has been and continues to be substantial consolidation activity in the banking and financial services industry. in addition, many financial institutions that experienced negative operating results, including some of our customers, have failed. these consolidations and failures reduce our number of potential customers and may reduce our number of existing customers, which could adversely affect our revenues, even if the events do not reduce the aggregate activities of the consolidated entities. further, if our customers fail and/or merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our customers, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce use of our services. it is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidations would have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services that we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose customers and have difficulty attracting new customers for our services. the markets for our services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new services and evolving industry standards. our future success will be significantly affected by our ability to enhance our current services, and develop and introduce new services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers and their clients. these initiatives carry the risks associated with any new service development effort, including cost overruns, delays in delivery, and performance issues. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing, marketing and selling new services that meet these changing demands, that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, and marketing of these services, or that our new services and their enhancements will adequately 10 table of contents meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. any of these developments could have an adverse impact on our future revenues and/or business prospects. we operate in a competitive business environment, and if we are unable to compete effectively our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. the market for our services is intensely competitive. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. some of our competitors have substantial resources. we face direct competition from third parties, and since many of our larger potential customers have historically developed their key applications in-house and therefore view their system requirements from a make-versus-buy perspective, we often compete against our potential customers' in-house capacities. in addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. see "item i. business. competition." global economic, political and other conditions, including business cycles and consumer confidence, may adversely affect our customers or trends in consumer spending, which may adversely impact the demand for our services and our revenue and profitability. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from transaction processing fees. the global transaction processing industries depend heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. any change in economic factors, including a sustained deterioration in general economic conditions or consumer confidence, particularly in the united states, or increases in interest rates in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer spending, including related consumer debt, reduce check writing and change credit and debit card usage, and as a result, adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions that we service. constraints within global financial markets or international regulatory requirements could constrain our financial institution customers' ability to purchase our services, impacting our future growth and profitability. a significant number of our customers and potential customers may hold sovereign debt or be subject to emerging international requirements such as basel iii, which could require changes in their capitalization and hence the amount of their working capital available to purchase our services. these organizations could have their capital constrained if the value of sovereign debt of nations such as greece, spain, italy, ireland or portugal continues to decline, if additional countries default on their debt, or if emerging regulatory requirements such as basel iii require institutions to alter their capital structures. these potential constraints could alter the ability of customers or potential customers to purchase our services and thus could have a significant impact on our future growth and profitability. potential customers may be reluctant to switch to a new vendor, which may adversely affect our growth. for banks and other potential customers of our financial information software and services, switching from one vendor of bank core processing or related software and services (or from an internally-developed system) to a new vendor is a significant undertaking. many potential customers perceive potential disadvantages such as loss of accustomed functionality, increased costs (including conversion costs) and business disruption. as a result, potential customers may resist change. we seek to overcome this resistance through value enhancing strategies such as a defined conversion process, system integration including bundling additional services and making ongoing investments to enhance the functionality of our software. however, there can be no assurance that our strategies for overcoming potential customers' reluctance to change vendors will be successful, and this resistance may adversely affect our growth. the sales and implementation cycles for many of our software and service offerings can be lengthy and require significant investment from both our customers and fis. if we fail to close sales or if a customer chooses not to complete an installation after expending significant time and resources to do so, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. the sales and associated deployment of many of our software or service offerings often involve significant capital commitments by our customers and/or fis. potential customers generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available software and services and require us to expend substantial time, effort, and money educating them prior to sales. further, as part of the sale or deployment of our software and services, customers may also require fis to perform significant related services to complete a proof of concept or custom development to meet their needs. all of the aforementioned activities may expend significant funds and management resources and, ultimately, the customer may determine not to close the sale or 11 table of contents complete the implementation. if we are unsuccessful in closing sales or if the customer decides not to complete an implementation after we expend significant funds and management resources or we experience delays, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. failure to obtain new clients or renew client contracts on favorable terms could result in a lower number of clients and adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. we may face pricing pressure in obtaining and retaining our larger clients. larger clients may be able to seek price reductions from us when they renew a contract, when a contract is extended, or when the client's business has significant volume changes. further, our smaller and mid-size clients may exert pricing pressure due to pricing competition or other economic needs or pressures being experienced by the customer. on some occasions, this pricing pressure results in lower revenue from a client than we had anticipated based on our previous agreement with that client. this reduction in revenue could result in an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. further, failure to renew client contracts on favorable terms could have an adverse effect on our business. our contracts with customers generally run for several years and provide for early termination fees. terms are generally renegotiated prior to the end of a contract's term. if we are not successful in achieving a high rate of contract renewals on favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may experience defects, development delays, installation difficulties, system failure, or other service disruptions with respect to our technology solutions, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. many of our services are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new technology solutions and services. further, the technology solutions underlying our services have occasionally contained and may in the future contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on platforms used by our customers or our customers may cancel a project after we have expended significant effort and resources to complete an installation. finally, our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. defects in our technology solutions, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions, or other difficulties could result in: (i) interruption of business operations; (ii) delay in market acceptance; (iii) additional development and remediation costs; (iv) diversion of technical and other resources; (v) loss of customers; (vi) negative publicity; or (vii) exposure to liability claims. any one or more of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through controls, including system redundancies, security controls, application development and testing controls and disclaimers and limitation-of-liability provisions in our license and customer agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will always be successful in preventing disruption or limiting our liability. the dodd-frank act may result in business changes for our customers that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, or prospects for future growth and overall business . our customers, and as a result our associated software and services, are required to comply with numerous regulations. the dodd-frank act and associated durbin amendment were passed and signed into law in 2010. the dodd-frank act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the regulations governing the financial services industry within the united states, established the consumer financial protection bureau and will require this and other federal agencies to implement many new regulations, which have the potential to increase the amount and types of regulation on areas of our business that were not previously regulated. the durbin amendment established interchange fee ceilings and allowed merchants to direct routing of transactions, both effective october 1, 2011, and established provisions that require all issuers to utilize at least two unaffiliated networks for processing, effective april 1, 2012. these changes may alter the nature or type of card programs offered by our customers, which could have an ongoing impact on our future growth or revenue for debit cards or other card programs. further, these changes could impact the volume or dollar amount of transactions that are routed through our network, which could alter the number of transactions that we process and impact our future processing fee revenue. several new regulations and rules will be written and implemented as directed by the aforementioned legislation and these new rules and regulations will require our customers or potential customers to comply with new requirements and could require fis to directly comply with new regulations. see "item i. business. government regulation" for more information regarding certain of these new requirements. these new requirements could result in the need for fis to make capital investments to modify our products and services to facilitate our customers and potential customers' compliance, as well as to deploy additional processes or reporting to comply with new regulations. further, requirements of the new regulations could result in changes in our customers' business practices and those of other marketplace participants that may alter the delivery of services to consumers, which could impact the demand for our software and services as well as alter the type or volume of transactions 12 table of contents that we process on behalf of our customers. as a result, the new legislation could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. many of our customers are subject to a regulatory environment and to industry standards that may change in a manner that reduces the number of transactions in which our customers engage and, therefore, reduces our revenues. our customers are subject to a number of government regulations and industry standards with which our services must comply. our customers must ensure that our services and related products work within the extensive and evolving regulatory and industry requirements applicable to them. federal, state, foreign or industry authorities could adopt laws, rules or regulations affecting our customers' businesses that could lead to increased operating costs and could reduce the convenience and functionality of our products and services, possibly resulting in reduced market acceptance. in addition, action by regulatory authorities relating to credit availability, data usage, privacy, or other related regulatory developments could have an adverse effect on our customers and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. regulations enacted by the consumer financial protection bureau may require fis to enact new business practices which may require capital investment which could impact our future operating results. the consumer financial protection bureau regulates financial and non-financial institutions and providers to those organizations. the bureau is establishing its regulatory agenda and will likely pass additional rules for regulating non-financial institution providers to ensure adequate protection of consumer privacy and to ensure consumers are not impacted by deceptive business practices. the impact of these rules may require fis or its subsidiaries to be subject to additional regulation and adopt additional business practices that could require additional capital expenditures or impact our operating results. our revenues from the sale of services to members of visa, mastercard, american express, discover and other similar organizations are dependent upon our continued certification and sponsorship, and the loss or suspension of certification or sponsorship could adversely affect our business. in order to provide our card processing services, we must be certified (including applicable sponsorship) by visa, mastercard, american express, discover and other similar organizations. these certifications are dependent upon our continued adherence to the standards of the issuing bodies and sponsoring member banks. the member financial institutions, some of which are our competitors, set the standards with which we must comply. if we fail to comply with these standards we could be fined, our certifications could be suspended, or our registration could be terminated. the suspension or termination of our certifications, or any changes in the rules and regulations governing visa, mastercard, american express, discover, or other similar organizations could prevent our registration or otherwise limit our ability to provide services, which could result in a reduction in revenue or increased costs of operation, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. changes in card association and debit network fees or products could increase costs or otherwise limit our operations. from time to time, card associations and debit networks increase the interchange fees that they charge. it is possible that competitive pressures will result in our absorption of a portion of such increases in the future, which would increase our operating costs, reduce our profit margin and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operation. furthermore, the rules and regulations of the various card associations and networks prescribe certain capital requirements. any increase in the capital level required would further limit our use of capital for other purposes. interchange fees and related practices have been receiving significant legal and regulatory scrutiny worldwide. the resulting regulatory changes that could occur from proposed regulations could alter the fees charged by card associations and debit networks worldwide. the impact from the regulations could change from time to time and the resulting changes in fees could impact the card issuance or services offered by our customers, which could have an adverse impact on our business or financial condition due to reductions or changes in types of transactions processed on behalf of our customers. see "item i. business. government regulation" for more information. if we fail to comply with applicable regulations or to meet regulatory expectations, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely impacted. the majority of our data processing services for financial institutions are not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. however, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, our data processing operations are examined on a regular basis by various federal and state regulatory authorities. if we fail to comply with any applicable regulations or guidelines for operations of a data services 13 table of contents provider, we could be subject to regulatory actions or regulatory rating changes, may not meet contractual obligations, or suffer harm to our client relationships or reputation. failure to meet the aforementioned requirements or to adapt to new requirements at the federal, state or international level could inhibit our ability to retain existing customers or obtain new customers, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition to our data processing services described above, we also have business operations that store, process or transmit consumer information or have direct relationships with consumers that are obligated to comply with regulations, including, but not limited to, the federal fair credit reporting act, the federal fair debt collection practices act and applicable privacy requirements. further, our international businesses must comply with applicable laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act. failure to maintain compliance with or adapt to changes in any of the aforementioned requirements could result in fines, penalties or regulatory actions that could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. security breaches, our own failure to comply with laws and regulations or industry security requirements imposed on providers of services to financial institutions and card processing services could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation and could result in a breach of one or more client contracts. as part of our business, we electronically receive, process, store and transmit sensitive business information of our customers. in addition, we collect personal consumer data, such as names and addresses, social security numbers, driver's license numbers, cardholder data and payment history records to support our customers' transaction processing, as well as part of our check authorization and collection businesses . the uninterrupted operation of our information systems and the confidentiality of the customer/consumer information that resides on such systems are critical to our successful operation. if we fail to maintain an adequate security infrastructure, adapt to emerging security threats, or implement sufficient security standards and technology to protect against security breaches, the confidentiality of the information we secure could be compromised. unauthorized access to our computer systems or databases could result in the theft or publication of confidential information, the deletion or modification of records or could otherwise cause interruptions in our operations. these risks are increased when we transmit information over the internet and due to increasing security risks posed by organized crime and politically motivated hackers. as previously disclosed, in the first quarter of 2011 we experienced a cyber-incident during which intruders gained unauthorized access to fis' network. during the incident, the intruders moved across a number of information technology environments, viewed and downloaded information, and ultimately executed approximately $13.0 million in unauthorized atm transactions through our sunrise prepaid card platform, resulting in a loss to fis. we are aware of no evidence that any of our clients or their customers suffered any direct financial loss as a result of the 2011 cyber-incident. during the 2011 cyber-incident, the attackers also engaged in tactics and techniques designed to obscure their movements and to prevent a full re-creation of their activities. nonetheless, it was the opinion of the cyber-security consultant we retained in march 2011 and representatives of law enforcement that the attackers were focused on the theft of money from the sunrise prepaid platform. if additional information regarding the incident is discovered, our current understanding of the attackers' activities during the incident could change, and the result could potentially have a material adverse effect on us. new cyber-incidents or additional cyber-incidents as a result of the previous unauthorized access incident could have a material adverse impact on us. in addition, while there is no pending litigation against us related to this cyber-incident, litigation may result. in late february 2012, the federal agencies that regulate financial institutions and provide regulatory oversight for fis issued a confidential exam report related to our information security, risk management and internal audit functions. we responded to this report and described the actions that we have taken and will take to improve these functions. the regulatory agencies distributed a letter to our clients in march 2012 describing the enhancements they had requested in our information security, risk management and internal audit functions. this letter acknowledged our commitment to address these requests expeditiously. in the fourth quarter of 2012, the regulatory agencies completed the fieldwork for their regularly scheduled examination of fis. a final report is pending at the time of this filing. after hiring our new chief information security officer, we commissioned an additional third-party factual investigation to analyze the 2011 cyber-incident comprehensively and objectively. this investigation is not yet complete; however, additional information has been provided to us by the investigators indicating that limited data, affecting a small number of our customers, may have been accessed or was accessed during the 2011 cyber-incident. we are in the process of communicating this information with the affected customers. we do not expect that this additional information and the communication thereof to our customers will have a material adverse effect on the company, although we cannot predict this with certainty. it is possible that additional information regarding the 2011 cyber-incident could be discovered and our current understanding of the 14 table of contents attackers' focus and activities during the incident could change, either of which could potentially have a material adverse effect on the company. further, although we have implemented significant enhancements in our security systems and environments since the attack, and are continuing to make improvements, we are unable to predict with certainty what, if any, further communications our regulators will have with our regulated financial institution clients or will require us to have with our clients. we are also unable to predict the effect that any future fis communications to our clients may have on our business. any future actions from our regulators or clients could have a material adverse impact on our business. further, as a provider of services to financial institutions and card processing services, we are bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information we receive from our customers as apply to the customers themselves. if we fail to comply with these regulations and industry security requirements, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract, governmental proceedings or the imposition of fines, or prohibitions on card processing services. in addition, if more restrictive privacy laws, rules or industry security requirements are adopted in the future on the federal or state level or by a specific industry body, they could have an adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on business processes. any inability to prevent security or privacy breaches, or the perception that such breaches may occur, could cause our existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and terminate their agreements with us, inhibit our ability to attract new customers and/or result in increasing regulation or other adverse consequences from the government agencies that regulate our business. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult. we cannot make any assurances that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of technology or that the agreements entered into for that purpose will be enforceable. effective trademark, service mark, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available online. misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if our applications or services are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we may be required to change our business practices and may also become subject to significant costs and monetary penalties. as our information technology applications and services develop, we are increasingly subject to infringement claims. any claims, whether with or without merit, could: (i) be expensive and time-consuming to defend; (ii) result in an injunction or other equitable relief which could cause us to cease making, licensing or using applications that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; (iii) require us to redesign our applications, if feasible; (iv) divert management's attention and resources; and (v) require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies or pay damages resulting from any infringing use. we face liability to our merchant customers if checks that we have guaranteed are dishonored by the check writer's bank. if a check that we have guaranteed is dishonored by the check writer's bank, we must reimburse our merchant customer for the check's face value and pursue collection of the amount from the check writer. in some cases, we recognize a liability to our merchant customers for estimated check returns and a receivable for amounts we estimate we will recover from the check writers, based on historical experience and other relevant factors. the estimated check returns and recovery amounts are subject to the risk that actual amounts returned may exceed our estimates and actual amounts recovered by us may be less than our estimates. lack of system integrity, fraudulent payments, credit quality related to funds settlement or the availability of clearing services could result in a financial loss. we settle funds on behalf of financial institutions, other businesses and consumers and receive funds from clients, card issuers, payment networks and consumers on a daily basis for a variety of transaction types. transactions facilitated by us include debit card, credit card, electronic bill payment transactions, ach payments and check clearing that supports consumers, financial institutions and other businesses. these payment activities rely upon the technology infrastructure that facilitates the verification of activity with counterparties, the facilitation of the payment as well as the detection or prevention of fraudulent payments. if the continuity of operations, integrity of processing, or ability to detect or prevent fraudulent payments were compromised, this could result in a financial loss to us. in addition, we rely on various financial institutions to provide ach services in support of funds settlement for certain of our products. if we are unable to obtain such ach services 15 table of contents in the future, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. in addition, we may issue credit to consumers, financial institutions or other businesses as part of the funds settlement. a default on this credit by a counterparty could result in a financial loss to us. furthermore, if one of our customers for which we facilitate settlement suffers a fraudulent event due to an error of their controls, we may suffer a financial loss if the customer does not have sufficient capital to cover the loss. our business is subject to the risks of international operations, including movements in foreign currency exchange rates. our international operations represent approximately 20% of total 2012 revenues, which are largely conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the brazilian real, british pound and euro. as a result, our financial condition and operating results could be significantly affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including u.s. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), differences in business practices and changes in the value of the u.s. dollar versus local currencies. in addition, we are less well-known internationally than in the united states, have less experience with local business conditions and may face challenges in successfully managing small operations located far from our headquarters, because of the greater difficulty in overseeing and guiding operations from a distance. as we expand our international operations, more of our customers may pay us in foreign currencies. conducting business in currencies other than u.s. dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. our primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relates to foreign currencies in brazil, europe, australia and parts of asia. the u.s. dollar value of our net investments in foreign operations, the periodic conversion of foreign-denominated earnings to the u.s. dollar (our reporting currency), our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, could be adversely affected in a material manner by movements in foreign currency exchange rates. these risks could cause an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. failure to attract and retain skilled technical employees or senior management personnel could harm our ability to grow. our future success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled technical personnel. because the development of our products and services requires knowledge of computer hardware, operating system software, system management software and application software, our technical personnel must be proficient in a number of disciplines. competition for such technical personnel is intense, and our failure to hire and retain talented personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. our future growth will also require sales and marketing, financial and administrative personnel to develop and support new products and services, to enhance and support current products and services and to expand operational and financial systems. there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our growth strategies and we may experience constraints that could adversely affect our ability to satisfy client demand in a timely fashion. our ability to maintain compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations and to manage and monitor the risks facing our business relies upon the ability to maintain skilled compliance, security, risk and audit professionals. competition for such skillsets is intense, and our failure to hire and retain talented personnel could have an adverse effect on our internal control environment and impact our operating results. our senior management team has significant experience in the financial services industry, either at fis or with clients or competitors, and the loss of this leadership could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. further, the loss of this leadership may have an adverse impact on senior management's ability to provide effective oversight and strategic direction for all key functions within the company, which could impact our future business, operating results and financial condition. we are the subject of various legal proceedings that could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. we are involved in various litigation matters, including in some cases class-action and patent infringement litigation, and also are involved in or the subject of governmental or regulatory agency inquiries or investigations from time to time. if we are unsuccessful in our defense in the litigation matters, or compliance with any governmental or regulatory rules, we may be forced to pay damages or fines and/or change our business practices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 16 table of contents unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax expense. our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. an unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, and could negatively impact our effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the current and/or future periods. risks related to business combinations and ventures we have a substantial investment in our brazilian venture and drive significant revenue through that venture that would be lost and result in significant termination costs if our venture partner were to terminate the agreement. revenue attributable to our brazilian venture partner, banco bradesco, accounted for $287.6 million in 2012 . the contract that we have with our brazilian venture partner allows for the termination of the contract at any point during the 10-year term, which ends september 30, 2020. this risk of contract termination is mitigated by guaranteed performance targets and minimum payments that would be triggered upon the event of an early termination. these payments have been established based on fis' expected rate of return for the contract over a 10-year period. the required payments and buyouts decline each year and are further reduced by returns in excess of the expected returns for the contract and reduce the overall barrier to exiting the venture. if our partner were to exit the agreement, this could have a significant impact on our future revenue and growth. for further detail on our brazilian venture see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. additionally, we employ approximately 10,200 employees in brazil who would have the ability to file labor claims if their employment is terminated. if our brazilian venture partner were to terminate the agreement, we may be subject to labor claims filed by employees of the brazilian venture. these claims, if realized, could result in a significant cost and impact to our earnings. we have substantial investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of prior acquisitions, and a severe or extended economic downturn could cause these investments to become impaired, requiring write-downs that would reduce our operating income. as of december 31, 2012 , goodwill aggregated to $8,381.5 million , or 61.9% of total assets, and other indefinite lived intangible assets aggregated to $81.3 million , or 0.6% of total assets. current accounting rules require goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets to be assessed for impairment at least annually or whenever changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment. factors that may be considered a change in circumstance include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. the results of our 2012 annual assessment of the recoverability of goodwill indicated that the fair values of the company's reporting units were in excess of the carrying values of those reporting units, and thus no goodwill impairment existed as of december 31, 2012 . likewise, the fair value of indefinite lived intangible assets was also in excess of the carrying value of those assets as of december 31, 2012 . however, if worldwide or united states economic conditions decline significantly with negative impacts to bank spending and consumer behavior , or if other business or market changes impact our outlook , the carrying amount of our goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets may no longer be recoverable and we may be required to record an impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. as of december 31, 2012 , intangible assets with definite useful lives aggregated to $1,494.9 million , or 11.0% of total assets. current accounting rules require intangible assets with definite useful lives to be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. factors that may be considered a change in circumstance include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. we will continue to monitor the fair value of our intangible assets as well as our market capitalization and the impact of any economic downturn on our business to determine if there is an impairment in future periods. risks related to our indebtedness losses, consolidations and failures in the financial services industry may impact our ability to borrow funds or the ability of our lenders to fulfill their obligations under our interest rate swap agreements. some financial institutions continue to be challenged by negative operating results. in certain cases, these negative operating results have led to financial institution failures and/or consolidations. as a result, lenders may become insolvent or 17 table of contents further tighten lending standards, which could in turn make it more difficult or impossible for lenders to perform their obligations under our interest rate swap agreements or for us to borrow under our revolving loan, obtain financing on favorable terms, or obtain financing or interest rate swap agreements at all. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if a financial institution fails to fulfill its obligations under our interest rate swap agreements or we are unable to draw funds under our revolving loan or obtain other cost-effective financing. our existing levels of debt and debt service requirements may adversely affect our financial condition or operational flexibility and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. as of december 31, 2012 , we had total debt of approximately $4,385.5 million . this level of debt could have adverse consequences for our business, financial condition, operating results and operational flexibility, including the following: (i) the debt level may cause us to have difficulty borrowing money in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; (ii) our debt level may limit operational flexibility and our ability to pursue business opportunities and implement certain business strategies; (iii) some of our debt has a variable rate of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates; (iv) we have a higher level of debt than some of our competitors or potential competitors, which may cause a competitive disadvantage and may reduce flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including increased competition and vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions ; (v) there are significant maturities on our debt that we may not be able to fulfill or that may be refinanced at higher rates; and (vi) if we fail to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding debt or fail to comply with the financial or other restrictive covenants contained in the indenture governing our senior notes, or our credit facility, an event of default could result that could cause all of our debt to become due and payable. the covenants relating to our notes and the fis credit agreement are limited and do not prohibit us from incurring additional debt or taking other actions that could exacerbate the risks described in the preceding risk factor or otherwise negatively impact holders of our notes. we may be able to incur substantially more debt in the future. although the indenture governing our notes and the agreements governing the fis credit agreement (as both are defined in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements) and other indebtedness each contain restrictions on our incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. as of december 31, 2012 , we had approximately $1,022.9 million of borrowing capacity available under our existing fis credit agreement. to the extent new debt is added to our current levels, the risks described above could substantially increase. statement regarding forward-looking information the statements contained in this form 10-k or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other statements made by our management that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933 and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, including statements regarding our expectations, hopes, intentions, or strategies regarding the future. these statements relate to, among other things, future events and our future results and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. any statements that refer to beliefs, expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances and other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. in many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, or continue, or the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements. the risks and uncertainties that forward-looking statements are subject to include without limitation: changes in general economic, business and political conditions, including the possibility of intensified international hostilities, acts of terrorism, and changes in either or both the united states and international lending, capital and financial markets; the effect of legislative initiatives or proposals, statutory changes, governmental or other applicable regulations and/or changes in industry requirements, including privacy regulations; the risks of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in or new laws or regulations affecting the banking, retail and financial services industries or due to financial failures or other setbacks suffered by firms in those industries; 18 table of contents changes in the growth rates of the markets for core processing, card issuer, and transaction processing services; failures to adapt our services and products to changes in technology or in the marketplace; internal or external security breaches of our systems, including those relating to the theft of personal information and computer viruses affecting our software or platforms, and the reactions of customers, card associations and others to any such events; the reaction of our current and potential customers to the regulatory letter we received about information security, risk management and internal audit following the security breach we experienced in early 2011 and to any other communications about such topics from our regulators or from us; competitive pressures on product pricing and services including the ability to attract new, or retain existing, customers; an operational or natural disaster at one of our major operations centers; and other risks detailed elsewhere in this risk factors section and in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission. other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. these forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. except as required by applicable law or regulation, we do not undertake (and expressly disclaim) any obligation and do not intend to publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you should carefully consider the possibility that actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks 38 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks market risk we are exposed to market risks primarily from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we use certain derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward exchange contracts, to manage interest rate and foreign currency risk. we do not use derivatives for trading purposes, to generate income or to engage in speculative activity. interest rate risk in addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by operating activities, we use fixed rate and variable rate debt to finance our operations. we are exposed to interest rate risk on these debt obligations and related interest rate swaps. the notes (as defined in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements) represent substantially all of our fixed-rate long-term debt obligations. the carrying value of the notes was $1,950.0 million as of december 31, 2012 . the fair value of the notes was approximately $2,138.2 million as of december 31, 2012 . the potential reduction in fair value of the notes from a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates would not be material to the overall fair value of the debt. our floating rate long-term debt obligations principally relate to borrowings under the fis credit agreement (as also defined in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements). an increase of 100 basis points in the libor rate would increase our annual debt service under the fis credit agreement, after we include the impact of our interest rate swaps, by $9.3 million (based on principal amounts outstanding as of december 31, 2012 ). we performed the foregoing sensitivity analysis based on the principal amount of our floating rate debt as of december 31, 2012 , less the principal amount of such debt that was then subject to an interest rate swap converting such debt into fixed rate debt. this sensitivity analysis is based solely on 38 table of contents the principal amount of such debt as of december 31, 2012 , and does not take into account any changes that occurred in the prior 12 months or that may take place in the next 12 months in the amount of our outstanding debt or in the notional amount of outstanding interest rate swaps in respect of our debt. further, in this sensitivity analysis, the change in interest rates is assumed to be applicable for an entire year. for comparison purposes, based on principal amounts on floating rate debt outstanding as of december 31, 2011 , and calculated in the same manner as set forth above, an increase of 100 basis points in the libor rate would have increased our annual interest expense, after we calculate the impact of our interest rate swaps, by $12.9 million . we use interest rate swaps for the purpose of managing our interest expense through the mix of fixed rate and floating rate debt. during the year ended december 31, 2012 , the notional amount of our outstanding interest rate swaps increased by $550.0 million . as of december 31, 2012 , we have entered into the following interest rate swap transactions converting a portion of the interest rate exposure on our term and revolving loans from variable to fixed (in millions): effective date termination date notional amount bank pays variable rate of fis pays fixed rate of february 1, 2011 february 1, 2013 $ 200.0 one month libor (1) 0.62 % (2) may 3, 2011 may 1, 2013 400.0 one month libor (1) 0.73 % (2) september 1, 2011 september 1, 2014 150.0 one month libor (1) 0.74 % (2) september 1, 2011 september 1, 2014 150.0 one month libor (1) 0.74 % (2) september 1, 2011 september 1, 2014 300.0 one month libor (1) 0.72 % (2) july 1, 2012 july 1, 2015 300.0 one month libor (1) 0.58 % (2) february 1, 2013 february 3, 2014 200.0 one month libor (1) 0.28 % (2) february 1, 2013 february 3, 2014 200.0 one month libor (1) 0.28 % (2) february 3, 2014 february 1, 2017 400.0 one month libor (1) 0.89 % (2) $ 2,300.0 ________________________ (1) 0.21% in effect as of december 31, 2012 . (2) does not include the applicable margin and facility fees paid to lenders on term loans and revolving loans as described above. we have designated these interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. a portion of the amount included in accumulated other comprehensive earnings is reclassified into interest expense as a yield adjustment as interest payments are made on the term and revolving loans. in accordance with the authoritative guidance for fair value measurements, the inputs used to determine the estimated fair value of our interest rate swaps are level 2-type measurements. we considered our own credit risk and the credit risk of the counterparties when determining the fair value of our interest rate swaps. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. these risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, transaction gains and losses associated with intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in currencies other than a location's functional currency. our objective is to minimize our exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. contracts are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. our exposure to foreign currency exchange risks generally arises from our non-u.s. operations, to the extent they are conducted in local currency. changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect translations of revenues denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. our international operations generated approximately $1,180.5 million in revenues during the year ended december 31, 2012 , of which approximately $1,009.2 million was denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the major currencies to which our revenues are exposed are the brazilian real, the euro, the british pound sterling and the indian rupee. a 10% move in average exchange rates for these currencies (assuming a simultaneous and immediate 10% change in all of such rates for the relevant period) would have resulted in the following increase or (decrease) in our reported revenues for the years ended december 31, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 (in millions): 39 table of contents currency 2012 2011 2010 real $ 40.4 $ 42.4 $ 32.5 euro 27.1 26.4 18.6 pound sterling 18.5 17.6 9.0 indian rupee 4.3 3.6 2.6 total impact $ 90.3 $ 90.0 $ 62.7 the impact on earnings of the foregoing assumed 10% change in each of the periods presented would not have been significant. revenue included $100.8 million and operating income included $9.0 million of unfavorable foreign currency impact during 2012 resulting from a stronger u.s. dollar during 2012 compared to 2011 . our foreign exchange risk management policy permits the use of derivative instruments, such as forward contracts and options, to reduce volatility in our results of operations and/or cash flows resulting from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. our international operations' revenues and expenses are generally denominated in local currency, which limits the economic exposure to foreign exchange risk in those jurisdictions. we do not enter into foreign currency derivative instruments for trading purposes. we have entered into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency exposure to intercompany loans. as of december 31, 2012 , the notional amount of these derivatives was approximately $115.6 million and the fair value was nominal. these derivatives are intended to hedge the foreign exchange risks related to intercompany loans, but have not been designated as hedges for accounting purposes. 40 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors in addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the risks described herein could result in a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. risks related to our business and operations entity mergers or consolidations and business failures in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our business by eliminating some of our existing and potential customers and making us more dependent on a more limited number of customers. there has been and continues to be substantial consolidation activity in the banking and financial services industry. in addition, many financial institutions that experienced negative operating results, including some of our customers, have failed. these consolidations and failures reduce our number of potential customers and may reduce our number of existing customers, which could adversely affect our revenues, even if the events do not reduce the aggregate activities of the consolidated entities. further, if our customers fail and/or merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our customers, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce use of our services. it is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidations would have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services that we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to innovate or adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose customers and have difficulty attracting new customers for our services. the markets for our services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new services and evolving industry standards. our future success will be significantly affected by our ability to enhance our current services, and develop and introduce new services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers and their clients. these initiatives carry the risks associated with any new service development effort, including cost overruns, delays in delivery, and performance issues. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing, marketing and selling new services that meet these changing demands, that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, and marketing of these services, or that our new services and their enhancements will adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. any of these developments could have an adverse impact on our future revenues and/or business prospects. we operate in a competitive business environment and if we are unable to compete effectively our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. 10 table of contents the market for our services is intensely competitive. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. some of our competitors have substantial resources. we face direct competition from third parties, and since many of our larger potential customers have historically developed their key applications in-house and therefore view their system requirements from a make-versus-buy perspective, we often compete against our potential customers' in-house capacities. in addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. see "item i. business. competition." global economic, political and other conditions, including business cycles and consumer confidence, may adversely affect our customers or trends in consumer spending, which may adversely impact the demand for our services and our revenue and profitability. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from transaction processing fees. the global transaction processing industries depend heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. any change in economic factors, including a sustained deterioration in general economic conditions or consumer confidence, particularly in the united states, or increases in interest rates in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer spending, including related consumer debt, reduce check writing and change credit and debit card usage, and as a result, adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions that we service. constraints within global financial markets or international regulatory requirements could constrain our financial institution customers' ability to purchase our services, impacting our future growth and profitability. a significant number of our customers and potential customers may hold sovereign debt or be subject to emerging international requirements such as basel iii, which could require changes in their capitalization and hence the amount of their working capital available to purchase our services. these organizations could have their capital constrained if the value of sovereign debt of nations such as greece, spain, italy, ireland or portugal continues to decline, if additional countries default on their debt, or if emerging regulatory requirements such as basel iii require institutions to alter their capital structures. these potential constraints could alter the ability of customers or potential customers to purchase our services and thus could have a significant impact on our future growth and profitability. potential customers may be reluctant to switch to a new vendor, which may adversely affect our growth. for banks and other potential customers of our financial information software and services, switching from one vendor of bank core processing or related software and services (or from an internally-developed system) to a new vendor is a significant undertaking. many potential customers perceive potential disadvantages such as loss of accustomed functionality, increased costs (including conversion costs) and business disruption. as a result, potential customers may resist change. we seek to overcome this resistance through value enhancing strategies such as a defined conversion process, system integration including bundling additional services and making ongoing investments to enhance the functionality of our software. however, there can be no assurance that our strategies for overcoming potential customers' reluctance to change vendors will be successful, and this resistance may adversely affect our growth. the sales and implementation cycles for many of our software and service offerings can be lengthy and require significant investment from both our customers and fis. if we fail to close sales or if a customer chooses not to complete an installation after expending significant time and resources to do so, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. the sales and associated deployment of many of our software or service offerings often involve significant capital commitments by our customers and/or fis. potential customers generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available software and services and require us to expend substantial time, effort, and money educating them prior to sales. further, as part of the sale or deployment of our software and services, customers may also require fis to perform significant related services to complete a proof of concept or custom development to meet their needs. all of the aforementioned activities may expend significant funds and management resources and, ultimately, the customer may determine not to close the sale or complete the implementation. if we are unsuccessful in closing sales or if the customer decides not to complete an implementation after we expend significant funds and management resources or we experience delays, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. failure to obtain new clients or renew client contracts on favorable terms could adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. 11 table of contents we may face pricing pressure in obtaining and retaining our larger clients. larger clients may be able to seek price reductions from us when they renew a contract, when a contract is extended, or when the client's business has significant volume changes. further, our smaller and mid-size clients may exert pricing pressure due to pricing competition or other economic needs or pressures being experienced by the customer. on some occasions, this pricing pressure results in lower revenue from a client than we had anticipated based on our previous agreement with that client. this reduction in revenue could result in an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. further, failure to renew client contracts on favorable terms could have an adverse effect on our business. our contracts with customers generally run for several years and provide for early termination fees. terms are generally renegotiated prior to the end of a contract's term. if we are not successful in achieving a high rate of contract renewals on favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may experience defects, development delays, installation difficulties, system failure, or other service disruptions with respect to our technology solutions, or execution problems with our transformation services, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. many of our services, including our transformation services, are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new technology solutions and services. further, the technology solutions underlying our services have occasionally contained and may in the future contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on platforms used by our customers or our customers may cancel a project after we have expended significant effort and resources to complete an installation. finally, our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. defects in our technology solutions, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions, or other difficulties could result in: (i) interruption of business operations; (ii) delay in market acceptance; (iii) additional development and remediation costs; (iv) diversion of technical and other resources; (v) loss of customers; (vi) negative publicity; or (vii) exposure to liability claims. any one or more of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through controls, including system redundancies, security controls, application development and testing controls and disclaimers and limitation-of-liability provisions in our license and customer agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will always be successful in preventing disruption or limiting our liability. the dodd-frank act may result in business changes for our customers that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, or prospects for future growth and overall business . our customers, and as a result our associated software and services, are required to comply with numerous regulations. the dodd-frank act and associated durbin amendment were passed and signed into law in 2010. the dodd-frank act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the regulations governing the financial services industry within the united states, established the consumer financial protection bureau and will require this and other federal agencies to implement many new regulations, which have the potential to increase the amount and types of regulation on areas of our business that were not previously regulated. the durbin amendment established interchange fee ceilings and allowed merchants to direct routing of transactions, both effective october 1, 2011, and established provisions that require all issuers to use at least two unaffiliated networks for processing, effective april 1, 2012. these changes may alter the nature or type of card programs offered by our customers, which could have an ongoing impact on our future growth or revenue for debit cards, debit network or other card programs. further, these changes could impact the volume or dollar amount of transactions that are routed through our network, which could alter the number of transactions that we process and impact our future processing fee revenue. the regulations and interchange fee provisions released by the federal reserve have been challenged in court and we are monitoring how any final judicial decision will impact our customers and our business. several new regulations and rules will be written and implemented as directed by the aforementioned legislation and these new rules and regulations will require our customers or potential customers to comply with new requirements and could require fis to directly comply with new regulations. see "item i. business. government regulation" for more information regarding certain of these new requirements. these new requirements could result in the need for fis to make capital investments to modify our products and services to facilitate our customers and potential customers' compliance, as well as to deploy additional processes or reporting to comply with new regulations. further, requirements of the new regulations could result in changes in our customers' business practices and those of other marketplace participants that may alter the delivery of services to consumers, which could impact the demand for our software and services as well as alter the type or volume of transactions that we process on behalf of our customers. as a result, the new legislation could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. 12 table of contents many of our customers are subject to a regulatory environment and to industry standards that may change in a manner that reduces the number of transactions in which our customers engage and, therefore, reduces our revenues. our customers are subject to a number of government regulations and industry standards with which our services must comply. our customers must ensure that our services and related products work within the extensive and evolving regulatory and industry requirements applicable to them. federal, state, foreign or industry authorities could adopt laws, rules or regulations affecting our customers' businesses that could lead to increased operating costs and could reduce the convenience and functionality of our products and services, possibly resulting in reduced market acceptance. in addition, action by regulatory authorities relating to credit availability, data usage, privacy, or other related regulatory developments could have an adverse effect on our customers and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. regulations enacted by the consumer financial protection bureau may require fis to enact new business practices which may require capital investment which could impact our future operating results. the consumer financial protection bureau regulates financial and non-financial institutions and providers to those organizations. the bureau is establishing its regulatory agenda and will likely pass additional rules for regulating non-financial institution providers to ensure adequate protection of consumer privacy and to ensure consumers are not impacted by deceptive business practices. the impact of these rules may require fis or its subsidiaries to be subject to additional regulation and adopt additional business practices that could require additional capital expenditures or impact our operating results. our revenues from the sale of services to members of visa, mastercard, american express, discover and other similar organizations are dependent upon our continued certification and sponsorship, and the loss or suspension of certification or sponsorship could adversely affect our business. in order to provide our card processing services, we must be certified (including applicable sponsorship) by visa, mastercard, american express, discover and other similar organizations. these certifications are dependent upon our continued adherence to the standards of the issuing bodies and sponsoring member banks. the member financial institutions, some of which are our competitors, set the standards with which we must comply. if we fail to comply with these standards we could be fined, our certifications could be suspended, or our registration could be terminated. the suspension or termination of our certifications, or any changes in the rules and regulations governing visa, mastercard, american express, discover, or other similar organizations could prevent our registration or otherwise limit our ability to provide services, which could result in a reduction in revenue or increased costs of operation, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. changes in card association and debit network fees or products could increase costs or otherwise limit our operations. from time to time, card associations and debit networks increase the interchange fees that they charge. it is possible that competitive pressures will result in our absorption of a portion of such increases in the future, which would increase our operating costs, reduce our profit margin and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operation. furthermore, the rules and regulations of the various card associations and networks prescribe certain capital requirements. any increase in the capital level required would further limit our use of capital for other purposes. interchange fees and related practices have been receiving significant legal and regulatory scrutiny worldwide. the resulting regulatory changes that could occur from proposed regulations could alter the fees charged by card associations and debit networks worldwide. the impact from the regulations could change from time to time and the resulting changes in fees could impact the card issuance or services offered by our customers, which could have an adverse impact on our business or financial condition due to reductions or changes in types of transactions processed on behalf of our customers. see "item i. business. government regulation" for more information. if we fail to comply with applicable regulations or to meet regulatory expectations, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely impacted. the majority of our data processing services for financial institutions are not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. however, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, our data processing operations are examined on a regular basis by various federal and state regulatory authorities. if we fail to comply with any applicable regulations or guidelines for operations of a data services provider, we could be subject to regulatory actions or regulatory rating changes, may not meet contractual obligations, or suffer harm to our client relationships or reputation. failure to meet the aforementioned requirements or to adapt to new requirements 13 table of contents at the federal, state or international level could inhibit our ability to retain existing customers or obtain new customers, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition to our data processing services described above, we also have business operations that store, process or transmit consumer information or have direct relationships with consumers that are obligated to comply with regulations, including, but not limited to, the federal fair credit reporting act, the federal fair debt collection practices act and applicable privacy requirements. further, our international businesses must comply with applicable laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act. failure to maintain compliance with or adapt to changes in any of the aforementioned requirements could result in fines, penalties or regulatory actions that could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. security breaches or attacks, or our failure to comply with laws, regulations or industry security requirements, could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation and could result in a breach of one or more client contracts. we electronically receive, process, store and transmit sensitive business information of our customers. in addition, we collect personal consumer data, such as names and addresses, social security numbers, driver's license numbers, cardholder data and payment history records. such information is necessary to support our customers' transaction processing and to conduct our check authorization and collection businesses. the uninterrupted operation of our information systems, as well as the confidentiality of the customer/consumer information that resides on such systems, is critical to our successful operation. if we fail to maintain an adequate security infrastructure, adapt to emerging security threats, or implement sufficient security standards and technology to protect against security breaches, the confidentiality of the information we secure could be compromised. unauthorized access to our computer systems or databases could result in the theft or publication of confidential information, the deletion or modification of records, or could otherwise cause interruptions in our operations. these risks are greater with increased information transmission over the internet and the increasing level of sophistication posed by cyber criminals. our risk management and information security programs are the subject of ongoing review by the federal regulatory agencies with responsibility for oversight of our business. in mid-may 2013, the federal agencies that provide regulatory oversight for fis issued a confidential report related to their examination of our information security, risk management and internal audit functions between october 2011 and october 2012. we responded to the report and described the actions that we have taken, as well as ongoing efforts underway to address specific findings. the regulatory agencies distributed the report, and a cover letter, to a subset of our regulated clients beginning in late may 2013. this prompted inquiries from clients, which, to the extent permitted by federal regulation, fis has addressed on an individual basis. we are unable to predict with certainty what, if any, further communications our regulators will have with our regulated financial institution clients. we are also unable to predict the effect that any such communications may have on our business. it remains possible that future actions by our regulators or clients related to this matter could have a material adverse impact on our business. as a provider of services to financial institutions and a provider of card processing services, we are bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information we receive from our customers as apply to the customers themselves. if we fail to comply with these regulations and industry security requirements, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract, governmental proceedings, the imposition of fines, or prohibitions on card processing services. in addition, if more restrictive privacy laws, rules or industry security requirements are adopted in the future on the federal or state level, or by a specific industry body, they could have an adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on business processes. any inability to prevent security or privacy breaches, or the perception that such breaches may occur, could cause our existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and terminate their agreements with us, inhibit our ability to attract new customers, result in increasing regulation, or bring about other adverse consequences from the government agencies that regulate our business. high profile payment card industry security breaches could impact consumer payment behavior patterns in the future and reduce our card payment transaction volumes. we are unable to predict whether or when high profile card payment security breaches will occur and if they occur, whether consumers will transact less on their payment cards. if consumers transact less on cards issued by our customers and we are not able to adapt to offer our customers new preferred consumer payment technologies, it could have a significant adverse impact on our revenue and related earnings. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights or a finding that our patents are invalid could impair our competitive position. 14 table of contents our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary or challenge the validity of our patents with governmental authorities. policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult. we cannot make any assurances that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of technology or that the agreements entered into for that purpose will be enforceable. effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available online. misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if our applications or services are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we may be required to change our business practices and may also become subject to significant costs and monetary penalties. as our information technology applications and services develop, we are increasingly subject to infringement claims. any claims, whether with or without merit, could: (i) be expensive and time-consuming to defend; (ii) result in an injunction or other equitable relief which could cause us to cease making, licensing or using applications that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; (iii) require us to redesign our applications, if feasible; (iv) divert management's attention and resources; and (v) require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies or pay damages resulting from any infringing use. we face liability to our merchant customers if checks that we have guaranteed are dishonored by the check writer's bank. if a check that we have guaranteed is dishonored by the check writer's bank, we must reimburse our merchant customer for the check's face value and pursue collection of the amount from the check writer. in some cases, we recognize a liability to our merchant customers for estimated check returns and a receivable for amounts we estimate we will recover from the check writers, based on historical experience and other relevant factors. the estimated check returns and recovery amounts are subject to the risk that actual amounts returned may exceed our estimates and actual amounts recovered by us may be less than our estimates. lack of system integrity, fraudulent payments, credit quality related to funds settlement or the availability of clearing services could result in a financial loss. we settle funds on behalf of financial institutions, other businesses and consumers and receive funds from clients, card issuers, payment networks and consumers on a daily basis for a variety of transaction types. transactions facilitated by us include debit card, credit card, electronic bill payment transactions, ach payments and check clearing that supports consumers, financial institutions and other businesses. these payment activities rely upon the technology infrastructure that facilitates the verification of activity with counterparties, the facilitation of the payment as well as the detection or prevention of fraudulent payments. if the continuity of operations, integrity of processing, or ability to detect or prevent fraudulent payments were compromised, this could result in a financial loss to us. in addition, we rely on various financial institutions to provide ach services in support of funds settlement for certain of our products. if we are unable to obtain such ach services in the future, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. in addition, we may issue credit to consumers, financial institutions or other businesses as part of the funds settlement. a default on this credit by a counterparty could result in a financial loss to us. furthermore, if one of our customers for which we facilitate settlement suffers a fraudulent event due to an error of their controls, we may suffer a financial loss if the customer does not have sufficient capital to cover the loss. failure to properly manage or mitigate risks in the operation of our wealth management business in the u.k could have adverse liability consequences. we have a wealth management business in the u.k. engaged in processing securities transactions on behalf of customers and serving as a custodian. failure to properly manage or mitigate risks in those operations and increased volatility in the financial markets may increase the magnitude of resulting losses, including those that may arise from human errors or omissions, defects or interruptions in computer or communications systems or breakdowns in processes or in internal controls. human errors or omissions may include failures to comply with applicable laws or corporate policies and procedures, theft, fraud or misappropriation of assets, whether arising from the intentional actions of internal personnel or external third parties. we have business in emerging markets such as brazil and india. these emerging markets may experience significant economic volatility in the future, which could add volatility to our revenue and earnings. 15 table of contents in our isg segment, we have operations in emerging markets, primarily in brazil, india and southeast asia. these emerging market economies tend to be more volatile than the more established markets we serve in north america and europe, which could add volatility to our future revenues and earnings. our business is subject to the risks of international operations, including movements in foreign currency exchange rates. our international operations represent approximately 21% of total 2013 revenues, which are largely conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the brazilian real, british pound, euro and indian rupee. as a result, our financial condition and operating results could be significantly affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including u.s. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), differences in business practices and changes in the value of the u.s. dollar versus local currencies. in addition, we are less well-known internationally than in the united states, have less experience with local business conditions and may face challenges in successfully managing small operations located far from our headquarters, because of the greater difficulty in overseeing and guiding operations from a distance. as we expand our international operations, more of our customers may pay us in foreign currencies. conducting business in currencies other than u.s. dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. our primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relates to foreign currencies in brazil, europe, australia and parts of asia. the u.s. dollar value of our net investments in foreign operations, the periodic conversion of foreign-denominated earnings to the u.s. dollar (our reporting currency), our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, could be adversely affected in a material manner by movements in foreign currency exchange rates. these risks could cause an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. failure to attract and retain skilled technical employees or senior management personnel could harm our ability to grow. our future success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled technical personnel. because the development of our products and services requires knowledge of computer hardware, operating system software, system management software and application software, our technical personnel must be proficient in a number of disciplines. competition for such technical personnel is intense, and our failure to hire and retain talented personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. our future growth will also require sales and marketing, financial and administrative personnel to develop and support new products and services, to enhance and support current products and services and to expand operational and financial systems. there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our growth strategies and we may experience constraints that could adversely affect our ability to satisfy client demand in a timely fashion. our ability to maintain compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations and to manage and monitor the risks facing our business relies upon the ability to maintain skilled compliance, security, risk and audit professionals. competition for such skillsets is intense, and our failure to hire and retain talented personnel could have an adverse effect on our internal control environment and impact our operating results. our senior management team has significant experience in the financial services industry, either at fis or with clients or competitors, and the loss of this leadership could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. further, the loss of this leadership may have an adverse impact on senior management's ability to provide effective oversight and strategic direction for all key functions within the company, which could impact our future business, operating results and financial condition. we are the subject of various legal proceedings that could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. we are involved in various litigation matters, including in some cases class-action and patent infringement litigation. if we are unsuccessful in our defense in the litigation matters, we may be forced to pay damages and/or change our business practices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies or unfavorable future tax law changes could adversely affect our tax expense. 16 table of contents our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. an unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, and could negatively impact our effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the current and/or future periods. unfavorable future tax law changes could also result in these negative impacts. risks related to business combinations and ventures we have a substantial investment in our brazilian venture and drive significant revenue through that venture that would be lost and result in significant termination costs if our venture partner were to terminate the agreement. revenue attributable to our brazilian venture partner, banco bradesco, accounted for $296.2 million in 2013 . the contract that we have with our brazilian venture partner allows for the termination or partial termination of the contract at any point during the 10-year term, which ends september 30, 2020. this risk of contract termination is mitigated by guaranteed performance targets and minimum payments that would be triggered upon the event of an early termination. these payments have been established based on fis' expected rate of return for the contract over a 10-year period. the required payments and buyouts decline each year and are further reduced by returns in excess of the expected returns for the contract and reduce the overall barrier to exiting the venture. if our partner were to exit the agreement, this could have a significant impact on our future revenue and growth. for further detail on our brazilian venture see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. additionally, we employ approximately 11,000 employees in brazil who would have the ability to file labor claims if their employment is terminated. if our brazilian venture partner were to terminate the agreement, we may be subject to labor claims filed by employees of the brazilian venture. these claims, if realized, could result in a significant cost and impact to our earnings. we have substantial investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of prior acquisitions, and a severe or extended economic downturn could cause these investments to become impaired, requiring write-downs that would reduce our operating income. as of december 31, 2013 , goodwill aggregated to $8,500.0 million , or 60.9% of total assets, and other indefinite lived intangible assets aggregated to $80.8 million , or 0.6% of total assets. current accounting rules require goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets to be assessed for impairment at least annually or whenever changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment. factors that may be considered a change in circumstance include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. the results of our 2013 annual assessment of the recoverability of goodwill indicated that the fair values of the company's reporting units were in excess of the carrying values of those reporting units, and thus no goodwill impairment existed as of december 31, 2013 . likewise, the fair value of indefinite lived intangible assets was also in excess of the carrying value of those assets as of december 31, 2013. however, if worldwide or united states economic conditions decline significantly with negative impacts to bank spending and consumer behavior , or if other business or market changes impact our outlook , the carrying amount of our goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets may no longer be recoverable and we may be required to record an impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. as of december 31, 2013 , intangible assets with definite useful lives aggregated to $1,258.5 million , or 9.0% of total assets. current accounting rules require intangible assets with definite useful lives to be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. factors that may be considered a change in circumstance include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. we will continue to monitor the fair value of our intangible assets as well as our market capitalization and the impact of any economic downturn on our business to determine if there is an impairment in future periods. risks related to our indebtedness losses, consolidations and failures in the financial services industry may impact our ability to borrow funds or the ability of our lenders to fulfill their obligations under our interest rate swap agreements. 17 table of contents some financial institutions continue to be challenged by negative operating results. in certain cases, these negative operating results have led to financial institution failures and/or consolidations. as a result, lenders may become insolvent or further tighten lending standards, which could in turn make it more difficult or impossible for lenders to perform their obligations under our interest rate swap agreements or for us to borrow under our revolving loan, obtain financing on favorable terms, or obtain financing or interest rate swap agreements at all. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if a financial institution fails to fulfill its obligations under our interest rate swap agreements or we are unable to draw funds under our revolving loan or obtain other cost-effective financing. our existing debt levels and future levels under existing facilities and debt service requirements may adversely affect our financial condition or operational flexibility and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. as of december 31, 2013 , we had total debt of approximately $4,468.6 million . this level of debt could have adverse consequences for our business, financial condition, operating results and operational flexibility, including the following: (i) the debt level may cause us to have difficulty borrowing money in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; (ii) our debt level may limit operational flexibility and our ability to pursue business opportunities and implement certain business strategies; (iii) some of our debt has a variable rate of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates; (iv) we have a higher level of debt than some of our competitors or potential competitors, which may cause a competitive disadvantage and may reduce flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including increased competition and vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions ; (v) there are significant maturities on our debt that we may not be able to fulfill or that may be refinanced at higher rates; and (vi) if we fail to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding debt or fail to comply with the financial or other restrictive covenants contained in the indenture governing our senior notes, or our credit facility, an event of default could result that could cause all of our debt to become due and payable. the covenants relating to our notes and the fis credit agreement are limited and do not prohibit us from incurring additional debt or taking other actions that could exacerbate the risks described in the preceding risk factor or otherwise negatively impact holders of our notes. we may be able to incur substantially more debt in the future. although the indenture governing our notes and the agreements governing the fis credit agreement (as both are defined in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements) and other indebtedness each contain restrictions on our incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. as of december 31, 2013 , we had approximately $1,970.2 million of borrowing capacity available under our existing fis credit agreement. to the extent new debt is added to our current levels, the risks described above could substantially increase. statement regarding forward-looking information the statements contained in this form 10-k or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other statements made by our management that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the u.s. federal securities laws. statements that are not historical facts, including statements regarding our expectations, hopes, intentions, or strategies regarding the future are forward-looking statements. these statements relate to, among other things, future events and our future results and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. any statements that refer to beliefs, expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances and other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. in many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, or continue, or the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements. the risks and uncertainties that forward-looking statements are subject to include without limitation: changes in general economic, business and political conditions, including the possibility of intensified international hostilities, acts of terrorism, and changes in either or both the united states and international lending, capital and financial markets; the effect of legislative initiatives or proposals, statutory changes, governmental or other applicable regulations and/or changes in industry requirements, including privacy regulations; 18 table of contents the risks of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in or new laws or regulations affecting the banking, retail and financial services industries or due to financial failures or other setbacks suffered by firms in those industries; changes in the growth rates of the markets for our solutions; failures to adapt our solutions to changes in technology or in the marketplace; internal or external security breaches of our systems, including those relating to the theft of personal information and computer viruses affecting our software or platforms, and the reactions of customers, card associations, government regulators and others to any such events; the reaction of our current and potential customers to communications from us or our regulators regarding information security, risk management, internal audit or other matters; competitive pressures on pricing related to our solutions including the ability to attract new, or retain existing, customers; an operational or natural disaster at one of our major operations centers; and other risks detailed elsewhere in this risk factors section and in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission. other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. these forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. except as required by applicable law or regulation, we do not undertake (and expressly disclaim) any obligation and do not intend to publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you should carefully consider the possibility that actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks market risk we are exposed to market risks primarily from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we use certain derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward exchange contracts, to manage interest rate and foreign currency risk. we do not use derivatives for trading purposes, to generate income or to engage in speculative activity. interest rate risk in addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by operating activities, we use fixed rate and variable rate debt to finance our operations. we are exposed to interest rate risk on these debt obligations and related interest rate swaps. the senior notes (as described in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements) represent substantially all of our fixed-rate long-term debt obligations. the carrying value of the notes was $2,450.0 million as of december 31, 2013 . the fair value of the senior notes was approximately $2,441.5 million as of december 31, 2013 . the potential reduction in fair value of the senior notes from a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates would not be material to the overall fair value of the debt. our floating rate long-term debt obligations principally relate to borrowings under the fis credit agreement (as defined in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements). an increase of 100 basis points in the libor rate would increase our annual debt service under the fis credit agreement, after we include the impact of our interest rate swaps, by $7.3 million (based on principal amounts outstanding as of december 31, 2013 ). we performed the foregoing sensitivity analysis based on the principal amount of our floating rate debt as of december 31, 2013 , less the principal amount of such debt that was then subject to an interest rate swap converting such debt into fixed rate debt. this sensitivity analysis is based solely on the principal amount of such debt as of december 31, 2013 , and does not take into account any changes that occurred in the prior 12 months or that may take place in the next 12 months in the amount of our outstanding debt or in the notional amount of outstanding interest rate swaps in respect of our debt. further, in this sensitivity analysis, the change in interest rates is assumed to be applicable for an entire year. for comparison purposes, based on principal amounts of floating rate debt outstanding as of december 31, 2012 , and calculated in the same manner as set forth above, an increase of 100 basis points in the libor rate would have increased our annual interest expense, after we calculate the impact of our interest rate swaps, by $9.3 million . 37 table of contents we use interest rate swaps for the purpose of managing our interest expense through the mix of fixed rate and floating rate debt. during the year ended december 31, 2013 , the notional amount of our outstanding interest rate swaps decreased by $600.0 million . a of december 31, 2013 , we have entered into the following interest rate swap transactions converting a portion of the interest rate exposure on our term and revolving loans from variable to fixed (in millions): effective date termination date notional amount bank pays variable rate of fis pays fixed rate of september 1, 2011 september 1, 2014 150.0 one month libor (1) 0.74 % (2) september 1, 2011 september 1, 2014 150.0 one month libor (1) 0.74 % (2) september 1, 2011 september 1, 2014 300.0 one month libor (1) 0.72 % (2) july 1, 2012 july 1, 2015 300.0 one month libor (1) 0.58 % (2) february 1, 2013 february 3, 2014 200.0 one month libor (1) 0.28 % (2) february 1, 2013 february 3, 2014 200.0 one month libor (1) 0.28 % (2) february 3, 2014 february 1, 2017 400.0 one month libor (1) 0.89 % (2) $ 1,700.0 ________________________ (1) 0.17% in effect as of december 31, 2013 . (2) does not include the applicable margin and facility fees paid to lenders on term loans and revolving loan as described in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements . we have designated these interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. a portion of the amount included in accumulated other comprehensive earnings is reclassified into interest expense as a yield adjustment as interest payments are made on the term and revolving loans. in accordance with the authoritative guidance for fair value measurements, the inputs used to determine the estimated fair value of our interest rate swaps are level 2-type measurements. we considered our own credit risk and the credit risk of the counterparties when determining the fair value of our interest rate swaps. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. these risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, transaction gains and losses associated with intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in currencies other than a location's functional currency. our objective is to minimize our exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and the use of foreign currency forward exchange contracts. contracts are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. our exposure to foreign currency exchange risks generally arises from our non-u.s. operations, to the extent they are conducted in local currency. changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect translations of revenues denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. our international operations generated approximately $1,273.9 million , $1,180.5 million and $1,177.6 million in revenues during the years ended december 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , of which approximately $1,086.8 million , $1,009.2 million and $1,005.8 million , respectively was denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the major currencies to which our revenues are exposed are the brazilian real, the euro, the british pound sterling and the indian rupee. a 10% move in average exchange rates for these currencies (assuming a simultaneous and immediate 10% change in all of such rates for the relevant period) would have resulted in the following increase or (decrease) in our reported revenues for the years ended december 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 (in millions): currency 2013 2012 2011 real $ 41.3 $ 40.4 $ 42.4 euro 28.2 27.1 26.4 pound sterling 22.4 18.5 17.6 indian rupee 5.4 4.3 3.6 total impact $ 97.3 $ 90.3 $ 90.0 38 table of contents the impact on earnings of the foregoing assumed 10% change in each of the periods presented would not have been significant. our international operations' revenues and expenses are generally denominated in local currency, which limits the majority of our economic exposure to foreign exchange risk in those jurisdictions. revenue included $49.6 million and $100.8 million and operating income included $11.9 million , and $9.0 million , respectively, of unfavorable foreign currency impact during 2013 and 2012 resulting from a stronger u.s. dollar during these years compared to the preceding year. our foreign exchange risk management policy permits the use of derivative instruments, such as forward contracts and options, to reduce volatility in our results of operations and/or cash flows resulting from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. we do not enter into foreign currency derivative instruments for trading purposes. we do periodically enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency exposure to intercompany loans. as of december 31, 2013 , the notional amount of these derivatives was approximately $57.3 million and the fair value was nominal. these derivatives are intended to hedge the foreign exchange risks related to intercompany loans but have not been designated as hedges for accounting purposes. 39 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors in addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the risks described herein could result in a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. risks related to our business and operations entity mergers or consolidations and business failures in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our business by eliminating some of our existing and potential clients and making us more dependent on a more limited number of clients. there has been and continues to be substantial consolidation activity in the banking and financial services industry. in addition, many financial institutions that experienced negative operating results, including some of our clients, have failed. these consolidations and failures reduce our number of potential clients and may reduce our number of existing clients, which could adversely affect our revenues, even if the events do not reduce the aggregate activities of the consolidated entities. further, if our clients fail and/or merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce use of our services. it is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidations would have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services that we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to innovate or adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose clients or our clients could lose customers and have difficulty attracting new clients for our services. the markets for our services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new services and evolving industry standards. our future success will be significantly affected by our ability to enhance our current services, and develop and introduce new services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients and their customers. these initiatives carry the risks associated with any new service development effort, including cost overruns, delays in delivery, and performance issues. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing, marketing and selling new services that meet these changing demands, that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, and marketing of these services, or that our new services and their enhancements will adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. any of these developments could have an adverse impact on our future revenues and/or business prospects. we operate in a competitive business environment and if we are unable to compete effectively our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. the market for our services is intensely competitive. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. some of our competitors have substantial resources. we face direct competition from third parties, and since many of our larger potential clients have historically developed their key applications in-house and therefore view their system requirements from a make-versus-buy perspective, we often compete against our potential clients' in-house capacities. in addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. see "item i. business. competition." 10 table of contents global economic, political and other conditions, including business cycles and consumer confidence, may adversely affect our clients or trends in consumer spending, which may adversely impact the demand for our services and our revenue and profitability. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from transaction processing fees. the global transaction processing industries depend heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. any change in economic factors, including a sustained deterioration in general economic conditions or consumer confidence, particularly in the united states, or increases in interest rates in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer spending, including related consumer debt, reduce check writing and change credit and debit card usage, and as a result, adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions that we service. constraints within global financial markets or international regulatory requirements could constrain our financial institution clients' ability to purchase our services, impacting our future growth and profitability. a significant number of our clients and potential clients may hold sovereign debt of economically struggling nations or be subject to emerging international requirements such as basel iii, which could require changes in their capitalization and hence the amount of their working capital available to purchase our services. these potential constraints could alter the ability of clients or potential clients to purchase our services and thus could have a significant impact on our future growth and profitability. potential clients may be reluctant to switch to a new vendor, which may adversely affect our growth. for banks and other potential clients of our financial information software and services, switching from one vendor of bank core processing or related software and services (or from an internally-developed system) to a new vendor is a significant undertaking. many potential clients perceive potential disadvantages such as loss of accustomed functionality, increased costs (including conversion costs) and business disruption. as a result, potential clients may resist change. we seek to overcome this resistance through value enhancing strategies such as a defined conversion process, system integration including bundling additional services and making ongoing investments to enhance the functionality of our software. however, there can be no assurance that our strategies for overcoming potential clients' reluctance to change vendors will be successful, and this resistance may adversely affect our growth. the sales and implementation cycles for many of our software and service offerings can be lengthy and require significant investment from both our clients and fis. if we fail to close sales or if a client chooses not to complete an installation after expending significant time and resources to do so, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. the sales and associated deployment of many of our software or service offerings often involve significant capital commitments by our clients and/or fis. potential clients generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available software and services and require us to expend substantial time, effort, and money educating them prior to sales. further, as part of the sale or deployment of our software and services, clients may also require fis to perform significant related services to complete a proof of concept or custom development to meet their needs. all of the aforementioned activities may expend significant funds and management resources and, ultimately, the client may determine not to close the sale or complete the implementation. if we are unsuccessful in closing sales or if the client decides not to complete an implementation after we expend significant funds and management resources or we experience delays, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. failure to obtain new clients or renew client contracts on favorable terms could adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. we may face pricing pressure in obtaining and retaining our larger clients. larger clients may be able to seek price reductions from us when they renew a contract, when a contract is extended, or when the client's business has significant volume changes. they may also reduce services if they decide to move services in-house. further, our smaller and mid-size clients may exert pricing pressure due to pricing competition or other economic needs or pressures being experienced by the client. on some occasions, this pricing pressure results in lower revenue from a client than we had anticipated based on our previous agreement with that client. this reduction in revenue could result in an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. further, failure to renew client contracts on favorable terms could have an adverse effect on our business. our contracts with clients generally run for several years and include liquidated damage provisions that provide for early termination fees. term 11 table of contents are generally renegotiated prior to the end of a contract's term. if we are not successful in achieving a high rate of contract renewals on favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may experience defects, development delays, installation difficulties, system failure, or other service disruptions with respect to our technology solutions, or execution problems with our transformation services, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. many of our services, including our transformation services, are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new technology solutions and services. further, the technology solutions underlying our services have occasionally contained and may in the future contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on platforms used by our clients or our clients may cancel a project after we have expended significant effort and resources to complete an installation. finally, our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. defects in our technology solutions, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions, or other difficulties could result in: (i) interruption of business operations; (ii) delay in market acceptance; (iii) additional development and remediation costs; (iv) diversion of technical and other resources; (v) loss of clients; (vi) negative publicity; or (vii) exposure to liability claims. any one or more of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through controls, including system redundancies, security controls, application development and testing controls and disclaimers and limitation-of-liability provisions in our license and client agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will always be successful in preventing disruption or limiting our liability. the dodd-frank act may result in business changes for our clients that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, or prospects for future growth and overall business . our clients, and as a result our associated software and services, are required to comply with numerous regulations. the dodd-frank act and associated durbin amendment were passed and signed into law in 2010. the dodd-frank act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the regulations governing the financial services industry within the united states. the act established the consumer financial protection bureau and will require this and other federal agencies to implement many new regulations, which have the potential to increase the amount and types of regulation on areas of our business that were not previously regulated. several new regulations and rules will be written and implemented as directed by the aforementioned legislation. these new rules and regulations will require our clients or potential clients to comply with new requirements and could require us to directly comply with new regulations. these new requirements could result in the need for fis to make capital investments to modify our products and services to facilitate our clients' and potential clients' compliance, as well as to deploy additional processes or reporting to comply with new regulations. further, requirements of the new regulations could result in changes in our clients' business practices and those of other marketplace participants that may alter the delivery of services to consumers, which could impact the demand for our software and services as well as alter the type or volume of transactions that we process on behalf of our clients. as a result, these new requirements could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. many of our clients are subject to a regulatory environment and to industry standards that may change in a manner that reduces the number of transactions in which our clients engage and, therefore, reduces our revenues. our clients are subject to a number of government regulations and industry standards with which our services must comply. our clients must ensure that our services and related products work within the extensive and evolving regulatory and industry requirements applicable to them. federal, state, foreign or industry authorities could adopt laws, rules or regulations affecting our clients' businesses that could lead to increased operating costs and could reduce the convenience and functionality of our products and services, possibly resulting in reduced market acceptance. in addition, action by regulatory authorities relating to credit availability, data usage, privacy, or other related regulatory developments could have an adverse effect on our clients and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. regulations enacted by the consumer financial protection bureau may require fis to enact new business practices which may require capital investment and/or incremental expenses which could impact our future operating results. the consumer financial protection bureau regulates financial and non-financial institutions and providers to those organizations. the cfpb is establishing its regulatory agenda and will likely pass additional rules for regulating non-financial institution providers to ensure adequate protection of consumer privacy and to ensure consumers are not impacted by deceptive 12 table of contents business practices. the impact of these rules may require fis or its subsidiaries to be subject to additional regulation and adopt additional business practices that could require additional capital expenditures or impact our operating results. our revenues from the sale of services to members of visa, mastercard, american express, discover and other similar organizations are dependent upon our continued certification and sponsorship, and the loss or suspension of certification or sponsorship could adversely affect our business. in order to provide our card processing services, we must be certified (including applicable sponsorship) by visa, mastercard, american express, discover and other similar organizations. these certifications are dependent upon our continued adherence to the standards of the issuing bodies and sponsoring member banks. the member financial institutions, some of which are our competitors, set the standards with which we must comply. if we fail to comply with these standards we could be fined, our certifications could be suspended, or our registration could be terminated. the suspension or termination of our certifications, or any changes in the rules and regulations governing visa, mastercard, american express, discover, or other similar organizations, could result in a reduction in revenue or increased costs of operation, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. changes in card association and debit network fees or products could increase costs or otherwise limit our operations. from time to time, card associations and debit networks increase the interchange fees that they charge. it is possible that competitive pressures will result in our absorption of a portion of such increases in the future, which would increase our operating costs, reduce our profit margin and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operation. furthermore, the rules and regulations of the various card associations and networks prescribe certain capital requirements. any increase in the capital level required would further limit our use of capital for other purposes. interchange fees and related practices have been receiving significant legal and regulatory scrutiny worldwide. the resulting regulatory changes that could occur from proposed regulations could alter the fees charged by card associations and debit networks worldwide. such changes could have an adverse impact on our business or financial condition due to reductions or changes in types of transactions processed on behalf of our clients. see "item i. business. government regulation" for more information. if we fail to comply with applicable regulations or to meet regulatory expectations, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely impacted. the majority of our data processing services for financial institutions are not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. however, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, our data processing operations are examined on a regular basis by various federal and state regulatory authorities and by international regulatory authorities, such as the fca, in certain jurisdictions. if we fail to comply with any applicable regulations or guidelines for operations of a data services provider, we could be subject to regulatory actions or regulatory rating changes, may not meet contractual obligations, or suffer harm to our client relationships or reputation. failure to meet the aforementioned requirements or to adapt to new requirements at the federal, state or international level could inhibit our ability to retain existing clients or obtain new clients, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition to our data processing services described above, we also have business operations that store, process or transmit consumer information or have direct relationships with consumers that are obligated to comply with regulations, including, but not limited to, the federal fair credit reporting act, the federal fair debt collection practices act and applicable privacy requirements. further, our international businesses must comply with applicable laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act. failure to maintain compliance with or adapt to changes in any of the aforementioned requirements could result in fines, penalties or regulatory actions that could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. security breaches or attacks, or our failure to comply with information security laws, or regulations or industry security requirements, could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation and could result in a breach of one or more client contracts. we electronically receive, process, store and transmit sensitive business information of our clients. in addition, we collect personal consumer data, such as names and addresses, social security numbers, driver's license numbers, cardholder data and payment history records. such information is necessary to support our clients' transaction processing and to conduct our check authorization and collection businesses. the uninterrupted operation of our information systems, as well as the confidentiality 13 table of contents of the customer/consumer information that resides on such systems, is critical to our successful operation. if we fail to maintain an adequate security infrastructure, adapt to emerging security threats, or implement sufficient security standards and technology to protect against security breaches, the confidentiality of the information we secure could be compromised. unauthorized access to our computer systems or databases could result in the theft or publication of confidential information, the deletion or modification of records, or could otherwise cause interruptions in our operations. these risks are greater with increased information transmission over the internet and the increasing level of sophistication posed by cyber criminals. our risk management and information security programs are the subject of ongoing review by the federal regulatory agencies with responsibility for oversight of our business. in late april 2014, the federal agencies that provide regulatory oversight for fis issued a confidential report related to their examination of our information security, risk management and internal audit functions between october 2012 and october 2013. we responded to the report and described the actions that we have taken, as well as ongoing efforts underway to address specific findings. the regulatory agencies distributed the report, and a cover letter, to a subset of our regulated clients beginning in may 2014. this prompted inquiries from clients, which, to the extent permitted by federal regulation, fis has addressed on an individual basis. we are unable to predict with certainty what, if any, further communications our regulators will have with our regulated financial institution clients. we are also unable to predict the effect that any such communications may have on our business. it remains possible that future actions by our regulators or clients related to this matter could have a material adverse impact on our business. as a provider of services to financial institutions and a provider of card processing services, we are bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information we receive from our clients as apply to the clients themselves. if we fail to comply with these regulations and industry security requirements, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract, governmental proceedings, the imposition of fines, or prohibitions on card processing services. in addition, if more restrictive privacy laws, rules or industry security requirements are adopted in the future on the federal or state level, or by a specific industry body, they could have an adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on business processes. any inability to prevent security or privacy breaches, or the perception that such breaches may occur, could cause our existing clients to lose confidence in our systems and terminate their agreements with us, inhibit our ability to attract new clients, result in increasing regulation, or bring about other adverse consequences from the government agencies that regulate our business. high profile payment card industry or digital banking security breaches could impact consumer payment behavior patterns in the future and reduce our card payment transaction volumes. we are unable to predict whether or when high profile card payment or digital banking security breaches will occur and if they occur, whether consumers will transact less on their payment cards or reduce their digital banking service. if consumers transact less on cards issued by our clients or reduce digital banking services and we are not able to adapt to offer our clients alternative technologies, it could have a significant adverse impact on our revenue and related earnings. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights or a finding that our patents are invalid could impair our competitive position. our ability to compete depends in some part upon our proprietary solutions and technology. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary or challenge the validity of our patents with governmental authorities. policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult. we cannot make any assurances that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of technology or that the agreements entered into for that purpose will be enforceable. effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available online. misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if our applications or services are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we may be required to change our business practices and may also become subject to significant costs and monetary penalties. as our information technology applications and services develop, we are increasingly subject to infringement claims. any claims, whether with or without merit, could: (i) be expensive and time-consuming to defend; (ii) result in an injunction or other equitable relief which could cause us to cease making, licensing or using applications that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; (iii) require us to redesign our applications, if feasible; (iv) divert management's attention and resources; and (v) require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies or pay damages resulting from any infringing use. we face liability to our merchant clients if checks that we have guaranteed are dishonored by the check writer's bank. 14 table of contents if checks that we have guaranteed are dishonored by the check writers' banks, we must reimburse our merchant clients for the checks' face value and pursue collection from the check writers. in some cases, we recognize a liability to our merchant clients for estimated check returns and a receivable for amounts we estimate we will recover from the check writers, based on historical experience and other relevant factors. the estimated check returns and recovery amounts are subject to the risk that actual amounts returned may exceed our estimates and actual amounts recovered by us may be less than our estimates. changes in economic conditions, the risk characteristics and composition of our clients and other factors could impact our actual and projected amounts. lack of system integrity, fraudulent payments, credit quality, undetected errors related to funds settlement or the availability of clearing services could result in a financial loss. we settle funds on behalf of financial institutions, other businesses and consumers and receive funds from clients, card issuers, payment networks and consumers on a daily basis for a variety of transaction types. transactions facilitated by us include debit card, credit card, electronic bill payment transactions, banking payments and check clearing that supports consumers, financial institutions and other businesses. these payment activities rely upon the technology infrastructure that facilitates the verification of activity with counterparties, the facilitation of the payment as well as the detection or prevention of fraudulent payments. if our continuity of operations, integrity of processing, or ability to detect or prevent fraudulent payments were compromised, this could result in a financial loss to us. in addition, we rely on various financial institutions to provide ach services in support of funds settlement for certain of our products. if we are unable to obtain such ach services in the future, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. in addition, we may issue credit to consumers, financial institutions or other businesses as part of the funds settlement. a default on this credit by a counterparty could result in a financial loss to us. furthermore, if one of our clients for which we facilitate settlement suffers a fraudulent event due to an error of their controls, we may suffer a financial loss if the client does not have sufficient capital to cover the loss. failure to properly manage or mitigate risks in the operation of our wealth management businesses in the u.s and the u.k could have adverse liability consequences. we have wealth management businesses in the u.s. and u.k. engaged in processing securities transactions on behalf of clients and serving as a custodian. failure to properly manage or mitigate risks in those operations and increased volatility in the financial markets may increase the potential for and magnitude of resulting losses, including those that may arise from human errors or omissions, defects or interruptions in computer or communications systems or breakdowns in processes or in internal controls. human errors or omissions may include failures to comply with applicable laws or corporate policies and procedures, theft, fraud or misappropriation of assets, whether arising from the intentional actions of internal personnel or external third parties. in addition, the u.s. based business holds charters in the states of georgia and delaware which exposes us to further regulatory compliance requirements of the georgia department of banking and finance and the office of the commissioner of banking in the state of delaware. the u.s. wealth management business is required to hold certain levels of regulatory capital as defined by the state banking regulators in the states in which they hold a bank or trust charter (delaware and georgia). in the u.k., our platform securities business is regulated by the fca and is subject to further regulatory capital requirements. we have business in emerging markets such as brazil, india and southeast asia. these emerging markets may experience significant economic volatility in the future, which could add volatility to our revenue and earnings. in our isg segment, we have operations in emerging markets, primarily in brazil, india and southeast asia. these emerging market economies tend to be more volatile than the more established markets we serve in north america and europe, which could add volatility to our future revenues and earnings. our business is subject to the risks of international operations, including movements in foreign currency exchange rates. our international operations represent approximately 22% of total 2014 revenues, which are largely conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the brazilian real, british pound, euro and indian rupee. as a result, our financial condition and operating results could be significantly affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including u.s. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), differences in business practices and changes in the value of the u.s. dollar versus local currencies. in addition, we are less well-known internationally than in the united states, have less experience with local business conditions and may face 15 table of contents challenges in successfully managing small operations located far from our headquarters, because of the greater difficulty in overseeing and guiding operations from a distance. as we expand our international operations, more of our clients may pay us in foreign currencies. conducting business in currencies other than u.s. dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. our primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relates to foreign currencies in brazil, europe, australia and parts of asia. the u.s. dollar value of our net investments in foreign operations, the periodic conversion of foreign-denominated earnings to the u.s. dollar (our reporting currency), our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, could be adversely affected in a material manner by movements in foreign currency exchange rates. these risks could cause an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. failure to attract and retain skilled technical employees or senior management personnel could harm our ability to grow. our future success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled technical personnel. because the development of our products and services requires knowledge of computer hardware, operating system software, system management software and application software, our technical personnel must be proficient in a number of disciplines. competition for such technical personnel is intense, and our failure to hire and retain talented personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. our future growth will also require sales and marketing, financial and administrative personnel to develop and support new products and services, to enhance and support current products and services and to expand operational and financial systems. there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our growth strategies and we may experience constraints that could adversely affect our ability to satisfy client demand in a timely fashion. our ability to maintain compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations and to manage and monitor the risks facing our business relies upon the ability to maintain skilled compliance, security, risk and audit professionals. competition for such skillsets is intense, and our failure to hire and retain talented personnel could have an adverse effect on our internal control environment and impact our operating results. our senior management team has significant experience in the financial services industry, either at fis or with clients or competitors, and the loss of this leadership could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. further, the loss of this leadership may have an adverse impact on senior management's ability to provide effective oversight and strategic direction for all key functions within the company, which could impact our future business, operating results and financial condition. we are the subject of various legal proceedings that could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. we are involved in various litigation matters, including in some cases class-action and patent infringement litigation. if we are unsuccessful in our defense in the litigation matters, we may be forced to pay damages and/or change our business practices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies or unfavorable future tax law changes could adversely affect our tax expense. our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. an unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, and could negatively impact our effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the current and/or future periods. unfavorable future tax law changes could also result in these negative impacts. risks related to business combinations and ventures we have a substantial investment in our brazilian venture and obtain significant revenue through that venture that would be lost and result in significant termination costs if our venture partner were to terminate the agreement. revenue attributable to our brazilian venture partner, banco bradesco, accounted for $277.4 million in 2014 . the contract that we have with our brazilian venture partner allows for the termination or partial termination of the contract at any point during the 10-year term, which ends september 30, 2020. this risk of contract termination is reduced by guaranteed performance targets and minimum payments that would be triggered upon the event of an early termination. these payments 16 table of contents have been established based on fis' expected rate of return for the contract over a 10-year period. the required payments and buyouts decline each year and are further reduced by returns in excess of the expected returns for the contract and reduce the overall barrier to exiting the venture. if our partner were to exit the agreement, this could have a significant impact on our future revenue and growth. for further detail on our brazilian venture see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. additionally, we employ approximately 10,000 employees in brazil who would have the ability to file labor claims if their employment is terminated. if our brazilian venture partner were to terminate the agreement, we, and they, may be subject to labor claims filed by employees of the brazilian venture. these claims, if realized, could result in a significant cost and impact to our earnings. we have substantial investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of prior acquisitions, and a severe or extended economic downturn could cause these investments to become impaired, requiring write-downs that would reduce our operating income. as of december 31, 2014 , goodwill aggregated to $8,877.6 million , or 61.1% of total assets, and other indefinite lived intangible assets aggregated to $82.3 million , or 0.6% of total assets. current accounting rules require goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets to be assessed for impairment at least annually or whenever changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment. factors that may be considered a change in circumstance include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. the results of our 2014 annual assessment of the recoverability of goodwill indicated that the fair values of the company's reporting units were in excess of the carrying values of those reporting units, and thus no goodwill impairment existed as of december 31, 2014 . likewise, the fair value of indefinite lived intangible assets was also in excess of the carrying value of those assets as of december 31, 2014. however, if worldwide or united states economic conditions decline significantly with negative impacts to bank spending and consumer behavior , or if other business or market changes impact our outlook , the carrying amount of our goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets may no longer be recoverable and we may be required to record an impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. as of december 31, 2014 , intangible assets with finite useful lives aggregated to $1,185.7 million , or 8.2% of total assets. current accounting rules require intangible assets with finite useful lives to be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. factors that may be considered a change in circumstance include significant under performance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. we will continue to monitor the fair value of our intangible assets as well as our market capitalization and the impact of any economic downturn on our business to determine if there is an impairment in future periods. risks related to our indebtedness losses, consolidations and failures in the financial services industry may impact our ability to borrow funds or the ability of our lenders to fulfill their obligations under our interest rate swap agreements. some financial institutions continue to be challenged by negative operating results. in certain cases, these negative operating results have led to financial institution failures and/or consolidations. as a result, lenders may become insolvent, which could in turn make it more difficult or impossible for lenders to perform their obligations under our interest rate swap agreements or for us to borrow under our revolving loan, obtain financing on favorable terms, or obtain financing or interest rate swap agreements at all. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if a financial institution fails to fulfill its obligations under our interest rate swap agreements or we are unable to draw funds under our revolving loan or obtain other cost-effective financing. our existing debt levels and future levels under existing facilities and debt service requirements may adversely affect our financial condition or operational flexibility and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. as of december 31, 2014 , we had total debt of approximately $5,067.7 million . this level of debt could have adverse consequences for our business, financial condition, operating results and operational flexibility, including the following: (i) the debt level may cause us to have difficulty borrowing money in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; (ii) our debt level may limit operational flexibility and our ability to pursue business opportunities and 17 table of contents implement certain business strategies; (iii) some of our debt has a variable rate of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates; (iv) we have a higher level of debt than some of our competitors or potential competitors, which may cause a competitive disadvantage and may reduce flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including increased competition and vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions ; (v) there are significant maturities on our debt that we may not be able to fulfill or that may be refinanced at higher rates; and (vi) if we fail to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding debt or fail to comply with the financial or other restrictive covenants contained in the indenture governing our senior notes, or our credit facility, an event of default could result that could cause all of our debt to become due and payable. the covenants relating to our notes and the fis credit agreement are limited and do not prohibit us from incurring additional debt or taking other actions that could exacerbate the risks described in the preceding risk factor or otherwise negatively impact holders of our notes. we may be able to incur substantially more debt in the future. although the indenture governing certain of our notes and the agreements governing the fis credit agreement (as both are defined in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements) each contain restrictions on our incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. as of december 31, 2014 , we had approximately $2,204.2 million of borrowing capacity available under our existing fis credit agreement. to the extent new debt is added to our current levels, the risks described above could substantially increase. statement regarding forward-looking information the statements contained in this form 10-k or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other statements made by our management that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the u.s. federal securities laws. statements that are not historical facts, including statements regarding our expectations, hopes, intentions, or strategies regarding the future are forward-looking statements. these statements relate to, among other things, future events and our future results and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. any statements that refer to beliefs, expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances and other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. in many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, or continue, or the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements. the risks and uncertainties that forward-looking statements are subject to include without limitation: changes in general economic, business and political conditions, including the possibility of intensified international hostilities, acts of terrorism, and changes in either or both the united states and international lending, capital and financial markets; the effect of legislative initiatives or proposals, statutory changes, changes in governmental or other applicable regulations, including privacy regulations and/or changes in industry requirements; the effect of new regulations and increased regulatory initiatives and activity in the u.s. and internationally; the risks of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential clients due to consolidation in or new laws or regulations affecting the banking, retail and financial services industries, third party technology providers or due to financial failures or other setbacks suffered by firms in those industries; changes in the growth rates of the markets for our solutions; failures to adapt our solutions to changes in technology or in the marketplace; internal or external security breaches of our systems, including those relating to the theft of personal information and computer viruses affecting our software or platforms, and the reactions of clients, card associations, government regulators and others to any such events; the reaction of our current and potential clients to communications from us or our regulators regarding information security, risk management, internal audit or other matters; competitive pressures on pricing related to our solutions including the ability to attract new, or retain existing, clients; an operational or natural disaster at one of our major operations centers; 18 table of contents and other risks detailed elsewhere in this risk factors section and in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission. other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. these forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. except as required by applicable law or regulation, we do not undertake (and expressly disclaim) any obligation and do not intend to publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you should carefully consider the possibility that actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks market risk we are exposed to market risks primarily from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we use certain derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward contracts, to manage interest rate and foreign currency risk. we do not use derivatives for trading purposes, to generate income or to engage in speculative activity. interest rate risk in addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by operating activities, we use fixed rate and variable rate debt to finance our operations. we are exposed to interest rate risk on these debt obligations and related interest rate swaps. the senior notes (as described in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements) represent substantially all of our fixed-rate long-term debt obligations. the carrying value of the notes was $2,950.0 million as of december 31, 2014 . the fair value of the senior notes was approximately $3,012.5 million as of december 31, 2014 . the potential reduction in fair value of the senior notes from a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates would not be material to the overall fair value of the debt. our floating rate long-term debt obligations principally relate to borrowings under the fis credit agreement (as defined in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements). an increase of 100 basis points in the libor rate would increase our annual debt service under the fis credit agreement, after we include the impact of our interest rate swaps, by $14.3 million (based on principal amounts outstanding as of december 31, 2014 ). we performed the foregoing sensitivity analysis based on the principal amount of our floating rate debt as of december 31, 2014 , less the principal amount of such debt that was then subject to an interest rate swap converting such debt into fixed rate debt. this sensitivity analysis is based solely on the principal amount of such debt as of december 31, 2014 , and does not take into account any changes that occurred in the prior 12 months or that may take place in the next 12 months in the amount of our outstanding debt or in the notional amount of outstanding interest rate swaps in respect of our debt. further, in this sensitivity analysis, the change in interest rates is assumed to be applicable for an entire year. for comparison purposes, based on principal amounts of floating rate debt outstanding as of 37 table of contents december 31, 2013 , and calculated in the same manner as set forth above, an increase of 100 basis points in the libor rate would have increased our annual interest expense, after we calculate the impact of our interest rate swaps, by $7.3 million . we use interest rate swaps for the purpose of managing our interest expense through the mix of fixed rate and floating rate debt. during the year ended december 31, 2014 , the notional amount of our outstanding interest rate swaps decreased by $1,000.0 million . as of december 31, 2014 , we have entered into the following interest rate swap transactions converting a portion of the interest rate exposure on our term and revolving loans from variable to fixed (in millions): effective date termination date notional amount bank pays variable rate of fis pays fixed rate of july 1, 2012 july 1, 2015 300.0 one month libor (1) 0.58 % (2) february 3, 2014 february 1, 2017 400.0 one month libor (1) 0.89 % (2) $ 700.0 ________________________ (1) 0.17% in effect as of december 31, 2014 . (2) does not include the applicable margin and facility fees paid to lenders on term loans and the revolving loan as described in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. we have designated these interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. a portion of the amount included in accumulated other comprehensive earnings is reclassified into interest expense as a yield adjustment as interest payments are made on the term and revolving loans. in accordance with the authoritative guidance for fair value measurements, the inputs used to determine the estimated fair value of our interest rate swaps are level 2-type measurements. we considered our own credit risk and the credit risk of the counterparties when determining the fair value of our interest rate swaps. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. these risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, transaction gains and losses associated with intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in currencies other than a location's functional currency. our objective is to minimize our exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and the use of foreign currency forward contracts. contracts are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. our exposure to foreign currency exchange risks generally arises from our non-u.s. operations, to the extent they are conducted in local currency. changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect translations of revenues denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. our international operations generated approximately $1,417.3 million , $1,266.6 million and $1,168.7 million in revenues during the years ended december 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , of which approximately $1,228.5 million , $1,086.8 million and $1,009.2 million , respectively was denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the major currencies to which our revenues are exposed are the brazilian real, the euro, the british pound sterling and the indian rupee. a 10% move in average exchange rates for these currencies (assuming a simultaneous and immediate 10% change in all of such rates for the relevant period) would have resulted in the following increase or (decrease) in our reported revenues for the years ended december 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 (in millions): currency 2014 2013 2012 real $ 38.0 $ 41.3 $ 40.4 euro 30.5 28.2 27.1 pound sterling 30.6 22.4 18.5 indian rupee 8.2 5.4 4.3 total impact $ 107.3 $ 97.3 $ 90.3 the impact on earnings of the foregoing assumed 10% change in each of the periods presented would not have been significant. our international operations' revenues and expenses are generally denominated in local currency, which limits the majority of our economic exposure to foreign exchange risk in those jurisdictions. 38 table of contents revenues included $37.4 million and $49.6 million and operating income included $8.9 million , and $11.9 million , respectively, of unfavorable foreign currency impact during 2014 and 2013 resulting from a stronger u.s. dollar during these years compared to the preceding year. in 2015, we expect a moderate increase in unfavorable foreign currency impact on our operating income resulting from the continued strengthening of u.s. dollar vs. other currencies. our foreign exchange risk management policy permits the use of derivative instruments, such as forward contracts and options, to reduce volatility in our results of operations and/or cash flows resulting from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. we do not enter into foreign currency derivative instruments for trading purposes. we do periodically enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency exposure to intercompany loans. as of december 31, 2014 , the notional amount of these derivatives was approximately $85.4 million and the fair value was nominal. these derivatives are intended to hedge the foreign exchange risks related to intercompany loans but have not been designated as hedges for accounting purposes. in conjunction with entering into the definitive agreement to acquire clear2pay in september 2014, we initiated a foreign currency forward contract to purchase euros and sell u.s. dollars to manage the risk arising from fluctuations in exchange rates until the closing because the purchase price was stated in euros. as this derivative did not qualify for hedge accounting, we recorded a charge of $16.2 million in other income (expense), net during the third quarter of 2014. this forward contract was settled on october 1, 2014. 39 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors in addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the risks described herein could result in a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. risks related to our business and operations entity mergers or consolidations and business failures in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our business by eliminating some of our existing and potential clients and making us more dependent on a more limited number of clients. there has been and continues to be substantial consolidation activity in the banking and financial services industry. in addition, many financial institutions that experienced negative operating results, including some of our clients, have failed. these consolidations and failures reduce our number of potential clients and may reduce our number of existing clients, which could adversely affect our revenues, even if the events do not reduce the aggregate activities of the consolidated entities. further, if our clients fail and/or merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce use of our services. it is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidations would have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to innovate or adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose clients or our clients could lose customers and have difficulty attracting new clients for our services. the markets for our services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new services and evolving industry standards. our future success will be significantly affected by our ability to enhance our current services, and develop and introduce new services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients and their customers. in addition, as more of our revenue shifts to saas, cloud, bpaas and services, the need to keep pace with rapid technology changes becomes more acute. these initiatives carry the risks associated with any new service development effort, including cost overruns, delays in delivery, and performance issues. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing, marketing and selling new services that meet these changing demands, that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, and marketing of these services, or that our new services and their enhancements will adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. any of these developments could have an adverse impact on our future revenues and/or business prospects. we operate in a competitive business environment and if we are unable to compete effectively our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. the market for our services is intensely competitive. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. some of our competitors have substantial resources. we face direct competition from third parties, and since many of our larger potential clients have historically developed their key applications in-house and therefore view their system requirements from a make-versus-buy perspective, we often compete against our potential clients' in-house capacities. in addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. see "item i. business. competition ." global economic, political and other conditions, including business cycles and consumer confidence, may adversely affect our clients or trends in consumer spending, which may adversely impact the demand for our services and our revenue and profitability. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from transaction processing fees. the global transaction processing industries depend heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. any change in economic factors, including a sustained deterioration in general economic conditions or consumer confidence, particularly in the united states, or increases in interest rates in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer spending, including related consumer debt, reduce check writing and change credit and debit card usage, and as a result, adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions that we service. 12 table of contents when there is a slowdown or downturn in the economy, a drop in stock market levels or trading volumes, or an event that disrupts the financial markets, our business and financial results, particularly with respect to our capital markets businesses, may suffer for a number of reasons. customers may react to worsening conditions by reducing their capital expenditures in general or by specifically reducing their information technology spending. in addition, customers may curtail or discontinue trading operations, delay or cancel information technology projects, or seek to lower their costs by renegotiating vendor contracts. moreover, competitors may respond to market conditions by lowering prices and attempting to lure away our customers to lower cost solutions. if any of these circumstances remain in effect for an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial results. constraints within global financial markets or international regulatory requirements could constrain our financial institution clients' ability to purchase our services, impacting our future growth and profitability. a significant number of our clients and potential clients may hold sovereign debt of economically struggling nations or be subject to emerging international requirements such as basel iii, which could require changes in their capitalization and hence the amount of their working capital available to purchase our services. these potential constraints could alter the ability of clients or potential clients to purchase our services and thus could have a significant impact on our future growth and profitability. potential clients may be reluctant to switch to a new vendor, which may adversely affect our growth. for banks and other potential clients of our financial information software and services, switching from one vendor of bank core processing or related software and services (or from an internally-developed system) to a new vendor is a significant undertaking. many potential clients perceive potential disadvantages such as loss of accustomed functionality, increased costs (including conversion costs) and business disruption. as a result, potential clients may resist change. we seek to overcome this resistance through value enhancing strategies such as a defined conversion process, system integration including bundling additional services and making ongoing investments to enhance the functionality of our software. however, there can be no assurance that our strategies for overcoming potential clients' reluctance to change vendors will be successful, and this resistance may adversely affect our growth. the sales and implementation cycles for many of our software and service offerings can be lengthy and require significant investment from both our clients and fis. if we fail to close sales or if a client chooses not to complete an installation after expending significant time and resources to do so, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. the sales and associated deployment of many of our software or service offerings often involve significant capital commitments by our clients and/or fis. potential clients generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available software and services and require us to expend substantial time, effort, and money educating them prior to sales. further, as part of the sale or deployment of our software and services, clients may also require fis to perform significant related services to complete a proof of concept or custom development to meet their needs. all of the aforementioned activities may expend significant funds and management resources and, ultimately, the client may determine not to close the sale or complete the implementation. if we are unsuccessful in closing sales or if the client decides not to complete an implementation after we expend significant funds and management resources or we experience delays, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our results may fluctuate from period to period because of the lengthy and unpredictable sales cycle for our software, changes in our mix of licenses and services, activity by competitors, and customer budgeting or operations requirements or renewal cycles. particularly with respect to the legacy sungard business, our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and be difficult to predict in a particular period due to the timing and magnitude of software license sales and other factors. we offer a number of our software solutions on a license basis, which means that the customer has the right to run the software on its own computers. the customer usually makes a significant up-front payment to license software, which we generally recognize as revenue when the license contract is signed and the software is delivered. the size of the up-front payment often depends on a number of factors that are different for each customer, such as the number of customer locations, users or accounts. the sales cycle for a software license may be lengthy and take unexpected turns. further, our customers' business models are shifting away from paying upfront license fees to paying periodic rental fees for services. thus, it is difficult to predict when software sales will occur or how much revenue they will generate. since there are few incremental costs associated with software sales, our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year due to the timing and magnitude of software sales. 13 table of contents our results may also vary as a result of pricing pressures, increased cost of equipment, the evolving and unpredictable markets in which our solutions and services are sold, changes in accounting principles, and competitors' new solutions or services. in addition, there are a number of other factors that could cause our sales and results of operation to fluctuate from period to period, including: customers periodically renew or upgrade their installed base of our solutions, which trigger buying cycles for current or new versions of our solutions and our revenue generally fluctuates with these refresh cycles as a result; the budgeting cycles and purchasing practices of customers, particularly large customers; changes in customer, distributor or reseller requirements or market needs; deferral of orders from customers in anticipation of new solutions or offerings announced by us or our competitors or otherwise anticipated by the market; our ability to successfully expand our business domestically and internationally; and insolvency or credit difficulties confronting our customers, which could adversely affect their ability to purchase or pay for our solutions. failure to obtain new clients or renew client contracts on favorable terms could adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. we may face pricing pressure in obtaining and retaining our larger clients. larger clients may be able to seek price reductions from us when they renew a contract, when a contract is extended, or when the client's business has significant volume changes. they may also reduce services if they decide to move services in-house. further, our smaller and mid-size clients may exert pricing pressure due to pricing competition or other economic needs or pressures being experienced by the client. on some occasions, this pricing pressure results in lower revenue from a client than we had anticipated based on our previous agreement with that client. this reduction in revenue could result in an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. further, failure to renew client contracts on favorable terms could have an adverse effect on our business. our contracts with clients generally run for several years and include liquidated damage provisions that provide for early termination fees. terms are generally renegotiated prior to the end of a contract's term. if we are not successful in achieving a high rate of contract renewals on favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. our business and operating results could be adversely affected if we experience business interruptions, errors or failure in connection with our or third-party information technology and communication systems and other software and hardware used in connection with its business, if we experience defects or design errors in the software solutions we offer, or more generally, if the third-party vendors we rely upon are unwilling or unable to provide the services we need to effectively operate our business. many of our services, including our transformation services, are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new technology solutions and services. further, the technology solutions underlying our services have occasionally contained and may in the future contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on platforms used by our clients or our clients may cancel a project after we have expended significant effort and resources to complete an installation. finally, our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. defects in our technology solutions, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions, or other difficulties could result in: (i) interruption of business operations; (ii) delay in market acceptance; (iii) additional development and remediation costs; (iv) diversion of technical and other resources; (v) loss of clients; (vi) negative publicity; or (vii) exposure to liability claims. any one or more of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through controls, including system redundancies, security controls, application development and testing controls and disclaimers and limitation-of-liability provisions in our license and client agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will always be successful in preventing disruption or limiting our liability. further, most of the solutions we offer are very complex software systems that are regularly updated. no matter how careful the design and development, complex software often contains errors and defects when first introduced and when major new updates or enhancements are released. if errors or defects are discovered in current or future solutions, we may not be able to correct them in a timely manner, if at all. in our development of updates and enhancements to our software solutions, we may make a major design error that makes the solution operate incorrectly or less efficiently. the failure of software to properly perform could result in the company and its clients being subjected to losses or liability, including censures, fines, or other 14 table of contents sanctions by applicable regulatory authorities, and we could be liable to parties who are financially harmed by those errors. in addition, such errors could cause the company to lose revenues, lose clients or damage its reputation. for approximately one week in august 2015, certain u.s. operations of a single sungard customer were disrupted by an issue affecting its sungard-hosted fund accounting platform that occurred following a recommended operating system update implemented by sungard. the customer uses the platform for the processing of net asset values (navs) for certain mutual funds, exchange-traded funds and collective investment funds. while the incident resulted in delayed publication of certain navs or use of alternative navs, no data was lost as a result of the incident. the platform is operating as designed and we continue to work with our customer to resolve all resulting matters. no other legacy sungard customers were disrupted. in addition, we generally depend on a number of third parties, both in the united states and internationally, to supply elements of our systems, computers, research and market data, connectivity, communication network infrastructure, other equipment and related support and maintenance. we cannot be certain that any of these third parties will be able to continue providing these services to effectively meet our evolving needs. if our vendors, or in certain cases vendors of our customers, fail to meet their obligations, provide poor or untimely service, or we are unable to make alternative arrangements for the provision of these services, we may in turn fail to provide our services or to meet our obligations to our customers, and our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially harmed. the dodd-frank act may result in business changes for our clients that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, or prospects for future growth and overall business . our clients are required to comply with numerous regulations. the dodd-frank act and associated durbin amendment were passed and signed into law in 2010. the dodd-frank act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the regulations governing the financial services industry within the united states. the dodd-frank act established the cfpb and will require this and other federal agencies to implement many new regulations, which have the potential to increase the amount and types of regulation on areas of our business that were not previously regulated. several new regulations and rules will be written and implemented as directed by the dodd-frank act. these new rules and regulations will require our clients or potential clients to comply with new requirements and could require us to directly comply with new regulations. these new requirements could result in the need for fis to make capital investments to modify our solutions and services to facilitate our clients' and potential clients' compliance, as well as to deploy additional processes or reporting to comply with new regulations. further, requirements of the new regulations could result in changes in our clients' business practices and those of other marketplace participants that may alter the delivery of services to consumers, which could impact the demand for our software and services as well as alter the type or volume of transactions that we process on behalf of our clients. as a result, these new requirements could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. many of our clients are subject to a regulatory environment and to industry standards that may change in a manner that reduces the types or volume of solutions or services we provide, or may reduce the type or number of transactions in which our clients engage, and therefore, reduces our revenues. our clients are subject to a number of government regulations and industry standards with which our services must comply. our clients must ensure that our services and related solutions work within the extensive and evolving regulatory and industry requirements applicable to them. federal, state, foreign or industry authorities could adopt laws, rules or regulations affecting our clients' businesses that could lead to increased operating costs and could reduce the convenience and functionality of our services, possibly resulting in reduced market acceptance. in addition, action by regulatory authorities relating to credit availability, data usage, privacy, or other related regulatory developments could have an adverse effect on our clients and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. regulations enacted by the cfpb may require fis to adopt new business practices which may require capital investment and/or incremental expenses which could impact our future operating results. the cfpb regulates financial and non-financial institutions and providers to those institutions. the cfpb is establishing its regulatory agenda and will likely pass additional rules for regulating non-financial institution providers to ensure adequate protection of consumer privacy and to ensure consumers are not impacted by deceptive business practices. the impact of these rules may require fis to be subject to additional regulation and adopt additional business practices that could require additional capital expenditures or impact our operating results. 15 table of contents our revenues from the sale of services to members of visa, mastercard, american express, discover and other similar organizations are dependent upon our continued certification and sponsorship, and the loss or suspension of certification or sponsorship could adversely affect our business. in order to provide our card processing services, we must be certified (including applicable sponsorship) by visa, mastercard, american express, discover and other similar organizations. these certifications are dependent upon our continued adherence to the standards of the issuing bodies and sponsoring member banks. the member financial institutions, some of which are our competitors, set the standards with which we must comply. if we fail to comply with these standards we could be fined, our certifications could be suspended, or our registration could be terminated. the suspension or termination of our certifications, or any changes in the rules and regulations governing visa, mastercard, american express, discover, or other similar organizations, could result in a reduction in revenue or increased costs of operation, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. changes in card association and debit network fees or products could increase costs or otherwise limit our operations. from time to time, card associations and debit networks increase the interchange fees that they charge. it is possible that competitive pressures will result in our absorption of a portion of such increases in the future, which would increase our operating costs, reduce our profit margin and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. furthermore, the rules and regulations of the various card associations and networks prescribe certain capital requirements. any increase in the capital level required would further limit our use of capital for other purposes. interchange fees and related practices have been receiving significant legal and regulatory scrutiny worldwide. the resulting regulatory changes that could occur from proposed regulations could alter the fees charged by card associations and debit networks worldwide. such changes could have an adverse impact on our business or financial condition due to reductions or changes in types of transactions processed on behalf of our clients. our securities brokerage operations are highly regulated and subject to risks that are not encountered in our other businesses. one of our subsidiaries is an sec registered broker-dealer in the u.s. and others are authorized by the fca to conduct certain regulated business in the u.k. domestic and foreign regulatory and self-regulatory organizations, such as the sec, the financial industry regulatory authority, and the fca can, among other things, fine, censure, issue cease-and-desist orders against, and suspend or expel a broker-dealer or its officers or employees for failure to comply with the many laws and regulations that govern brokerage activities. such sanctions may arise out of currently-conducted activities or those conducted in prior periods. our ability to comply with these laws and regulations is largely dependent on our establishment, maintenance, and enforcement of an effective brokerage compliance program. failure to establish, maintain, and enforce the required brokerage compliance procedures, even if unintentional, could subject us to significant losses, lead to disciplinary or other actions, and tarnish our reputation. regulations affecting the brokerage industry may change, which could adversely affect our financial results. we are exposed to certain risks relating to the execution services provided by our brokerage operations to our customers and counterparties, which include other broker-dealers, active traders, hedge funds, asset managers, and other institutional and non-institutional clients. these risks include, but are not limited to, customers or counterparties failing to pay for or deliver securities, trading errors, the inability or failure to settle trades, and trade execution system failures. in our other businesses, we generally can disclaim liability for trading losses that may be caused by our software, but in our brokerage operations, we may not be able to limit our liability for trading losses or failed trades even when we are not at fault. as a result, we may suffer losses that are disproportionately large compared to the relatively modest profit contributions of our brokerage operations. if we fail to comply with applicable regulations or to meet regulatory expectations, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely impacted. the majority of our data processing services for financial institutions are not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. however, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, our data processing operations are examined on a regular basis by various federal and state regulatory authorities and by international regulatory authorities, such as the fca, in certain jurisdictions. if we fail to comply with any applicable regulations or guidelines for operations of a data services provider, we could be subject to regulatory actions or rating changes, may not meet contractual obligations, and may suffer harm to our client relationships or reputation. failure to meet the aforementioned requirements or to adapt to new requirements at the federal, state or international level 16 table of contents could inhibit our ability to retain existing clients or obtain new clients, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition to our data processing services described above, we also have business operations that store, process or transmit consumer information or have direct relationships with consumers that are obligated to comply with regulations, including, but not limited to, the federal fair credit reporting act, the federal fair debt collection practices act and applicable privacy requirements. further, our international businesses must comply with applicable laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act. failure to maintain compliance with or adapt to changes in any of the aforementioned requirements could result in fines, penalties or regulatory actions that could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. security breaches or attacks, or our failure to comply with information security laws, or regulations or industry security requirements, could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation and could result in a breach of one or more client contracts. we electronically receive, process, store and transmit sensitive business information of our clients. in addition, we collect personal consumer data, such as names and addresses, social security numbers, driver's license numbers, cardholder data and payment history records. such information is necessary to support our clients' transaction processing and to conduct our check authorization and collection businesses. the uninterrupted operation of our information systems, as well as the confidentiality of the customer/consumer information that resides on such systems, is critical to our successful operation. if we fail to maintain an adequate security infrastructure, adapt to emerging security threats, or implement sufficient security standards and technology to protect against security breaches, the confidentiality of the information we secure could be compromised. unauthorized access to our computer systems or databases could result in the theft or publication of confidential information, the deletion or modification of records, or could otherwise cause interruptions in our operations. these risks are greater with increased information transmission over the internet and the increasing level of sophistication posed by cyber criminals. as a provider of services to financial institutions and a provider of card processing services, we are bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information we receive from our clients as apply to the clients themselves. if we fail to comply with these regulations and industry security requirements, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract, governmental proceedings, and the imposition of fines, or prohibitions on card processing services. in addition, if more restrictive privacy laws, rules or industry security requirements are adopted in the future on the federal or state level, or by a specific industry body, they could have an adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on business processes. any inability to prevent security or privacy breaches, or the perception that such breaches may occur, could cause our existing clients to lose confidence in our systems and terminate their agreements with us, inhibit our ability to attract new clients, result in increasing regulation, or bring about other adverse consequences from the government agencies that regulate our business. high profile payment card industry or digital banking security breaches could impact consumer payment behavior patterns in the future and reduce our card payment transaction volumes. we are unable to predict whether or when high profile card payment or digital banking security breaches will occur and if they occur, whether consumers will transact less on their payment cards or reduce their digital banking service. if consumers transact less on cards issued by our clients or reduce digital banking services and we are not able to adapt to offer our clients alternative technologies, it could have a significant adverse impact on our revenue and related earnings. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights or a finding that our patents are invalid could impair our competitive position. our ability to compete depends in some part upon our proprietary solutions and technology. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary or challenge the validity of our patents with governmental authorities. policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult. we cannot make any assurances that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of technology or that the agreements entered into for that purpose will be enforceable. effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available online. misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if our applications or services are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we may be required to change our business practices and may also become subject to significant costs and monetary penalties. 17 table of contents as our information technology applications and services develop, we are increasingly subject to infringement claims. any claims, whether with or without merit, could: (i) be expensive and time-consuming to defend; (ii) result in an injunction or other equitable relief which could cause us to cease making, licensing or using applications that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; (iii) require us to redesign our applications, if feasible; (iv) divert management's attention and resources; and (v) require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies or pay damages resulting from any infringing use. some of our solutions contain open source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business. we use a limited amount of software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called open source licenses and may continue to use such software in the future. some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software, and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. by the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner. additionally, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by united states or other courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our solutions. in addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. we have established processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening requests from our development organizations for the use of open source, but we cannot be sure that all open source is submitted for approval prior to use in our solutions. in addition, many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. we face liability to our merchant clients if checks that we have guaranteed are dishonored by the check writer's bank. if checks that we have guaranteed are dishonored by the check writers' banks, we must reimburse our merchant clients for the checks' face value and pursue collection from the check writers. in some cases, we recognize a liability to our merchant clients for estimated check returns and a receivable for amounts we estimate we will recover from the check writers, based on historical experience and other relevant factors. the estimated check returns and recovery amounts are subject to the risk that actual amounts returned may exceed our estimates and actual amounts recovered by us may be less than our estimates. changes in economic conditions, the risk characteristics and composition of our clients and other factors could impact our actual and projected amounts. lack of system integrity, fraudulent payments, credit quality, and undetected errors related to funds settlement or the availability of clearing services could result in a financial loss. we settle funds on behalf of financial institutions, other businesses and consumers and receive funds from clients, card issuers, payment networks and consumers on a daily basis for a variety of transaction types. transactions facilitated by us include debit card, credit card, electronic bill payment transactions, banking payments and check clearing that supports consumers, financial institutions and other businesses. these payment activities rely upon the technology infrastructure that facilitates the verification of activity with counterparties, the facilitation of the payment as well as the detection or prevention of fraudulent payments. if our continuity of operations, integrity of processing, or ability to detect or prevent fraudulent payments were compromised, this could result in a financial loss to us. in addition, we rely on various financial institutions to provide ach services in support of funds settlement for certain of our solutions. if we are unable to obtain such ach services in the future, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. in addition, we may issue credit to consumers, financial institutions or other businesses as part of the funds settlement. a default on this credit by a counterparty could result in a financial loss to us. furthermore, if one of our clients for which we facilitate settlement suffers a fraudulent event due to an error of their controls, we may suffer a financial loss if the client does not have sufficient capital to cover the loss. failure to properly manage or mitigate risks in the operation of our wealth management businesses in the u.s and the u.k could have adverse liability consequences. we have wealth management businesses in the u.s. and u.k. engaged in processing securities transactions on behalf of clients and serving as a custodian. failure to properly manage or mitigate risks in those operations and increased volatility in the financial markets may increase the potential for and magnitude of resulting losses, including those that may arise from human errors or omissions, defects or interruptions in computer or communications systems or breakdowns in processes or in 18 table of contents internal controls. human errors or omissions may include failures to comply with applicable laws or corporate policies and procedures, theft, fraud or misappropriation of assets, whether arising from the intentional actions of internal personnel or external third parties. in addition, the u.s.-based business holds charters in the states of georgia and delaware which exposes us to further regulatory compliance requirements of the georgia department of banking and finance and the office of the commissioner of banking in the state of delaware. the u.s. wealth management business is required to hold certain levels of regulatory capital as defined by the state banking regulators in the states in which they hold a bank or trust charter (delaware and georgia). in the u.k., our platform securities and broker dealer businesses are regulated by the fca and are subject to further regulatory capital requirements. we also have registered investment advisor and transfer agent businesses regulated by the sec and subject to further regulatory requirements. our business is subject to the risks of international operations, including movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the international operations of fis represented approximately 22% of our total 2015 revenues, and are largely conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the brazilian real, british pound, euro and indian rupee. fis completed the sungard acquisition on november 30, 2015, and sungard's revenues are included after the date of acquisition. sungard legacy businesses derive an even greater percentage of total revenues outside the united states, primarily from customers located in europe. over the past few years, sungard has expanded its operations in certain emerging markets in asia, africa, europe, the middle east and south america. as a result, following the acquisition, we are to a greater degree subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. our business and financial results could be adversely affected due to a variety of factors, including: changes in a specific country or region's political and cultural climate or economic condition, including change in governmental regime; unexpected or unfavorable changes in foreign laws, regulatory requirements and related interpretations; difficulty of effective enforcement of contractual provisions in local jurisdictions; inadequate intellectual property protection in foreign countries; trade-protection measures, import or export licensing requirements such as export administration regulations promulgated by the u.s. department of commerce and fines, penalties or suspension or revocation of export privileges; trade sanctions imposed by the united states or other governments with jurisdictional authority over our business operations; the effects of applicable and potentially adverse foreign tax law changes; significant adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates; longer accounts receivable cycles; managing a geographically dispersed workforce; and compliance with the united states foreign corrupt practices act, or fcpa, and the office of foreign assets control regulations, particularly in emerging markets. in foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, certain business practices may exist that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and other anti-corruption laws. although our policies and procedures require compliance with these laws and are designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents may take actions in violation of applicable laws or our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation. as we expand our international operations, more of our clients may pay us in foreign currencies. conducting business in currencies other than u.s. dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that can negatively impact our results, period to period, including relative to analyst estimates or guidance. our primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relates to foreign currencies in brazil, europe, australia and parts of asia. the u.s. dollar value of our net investments in foreign operations, the periodic conversion of foreign-denominated earnings to the u.s. dollar (our reporting currency), and our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, could be adversely affected in a material manner by movements in foreign currency exchange rates. these risks could cause an adverse effect on the business, financial position and results of operations of the company. we have businesses in emerging markets that may experience significant economic volatility. 19 table of contents we have operations in emerging markets, primarily in brazil, india, southeast asia, the middle east and africa. these emerging market economies tend to be more volatile than the more established markets we serve in north america and europe, which could add volatility to our future revenues and earnings. failure to attract and retain skilled technical employees or senior management personnel could harm our ability to grow. our future success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled technical personnel. because the development of our solutions and services requires knowledge of computer hardware, operating system software, system management software and application software, our technical personnel must be proficient in a number of disciplines. competition for such technical personnel is intense, and our failure to hire and retain talented personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. our future growth will also require sales and marketing, financial and administrative personnel to develop and support new solutions and services, to enhance and support current solutions and services and to expand operational and financial systems. there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our growth strategies and we may experience constraints that could adversely affect our ability to satisfy client demand in a timely fashion. our ability to maintain compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations and to manage and monitor the risks facing our business relies upon the ability to maintain skilled compliance, security, risk and audit professionals. competition for such skillsets is intense, and our failure to hire and retain talented personnel could have an adverse effect on our internal control environment and impact our operating results. our senior management team has significant experience in the financial services industry, either at fis or with clients or competitors, and the loss of this leadership could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. further, the loss of this leadership may have an adverse impact on senior management's ability to provide effective oversight and strategic direction for all key functions within the company, which could impact our future business, operating results and financial condition. we are the subject of various legal proceedings that could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. we are involved in various litigation matters, including in some cases class-action and patent infringement litigation. if we are unsuccessful in our defense of litigation matters, we may be forced to pay damages and/or change our business practices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies or unfavorable future tax law changes could adversely affect our tax expense. our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. an unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, and could negatively impact our effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the current and/or future periods. unfavorable future tax law changes could also result in these negative impacts. in addition, tax-law amendments in the united states and other jurisdictions could significantly impact how united states multinational corporations are taxed. although we cannot predict whether or in what form such legislation will pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. a material weakness in our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on us. effectiv e internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to adequately mitigate risk of fraud. if we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and adequately mitigate risk of fraud, our reputation and operating results could be harmed. internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. in addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. a material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. if we are unable to report financial information timely 20 table of contents and accurately or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the sec, any one of which could adversely affect our business prospects. risks related to business combinations and ventures we expect to incur substantial expenses related to the sungard acquisition, which was completed on november 30, 2015 and the integration of sungard. we expect to incur substantial expenses in connection with the acquisition and the integration of sungard. additionally, there are a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that must be integrated, including information technology, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing, information security, risk, legal, marketing and human resources, including payroll and employee benefits. while we have attempted to estimate the after-tax integration and restructuring costs and other costs incurred to execute the transaction following completion of the acquisition, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. these expenses are likely, particularly in the near term, to exceed the savings that we expect to achieve from elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings. although we expect that the realization of efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses will offset incremental transaction, merger-related and restructuring costs over time, we cannot give any assurance that this net benefit will be achieved in the near term, or at all. in addition, there is a risk that fis will be exposed to liabilities of sungard that were not disclosed to fis in connection with its entry into the merger agreement. under the merger agreement, fis has no contractual rights to indemnification for any undisclosed liabilities. any such losses or liabilities could be material to our results of operations or financial condition. successful integration of sungard and successful operation of the combined company is not assured and the combined company may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition . also, integration efforts may divert the attention of management away from operations. realization of the anticipated benefits in the acquisition will depend, in part, on the combined company's ability to successfully integrate the businesses and operations of sungard. integrating and coordinating certain aspects of the operations and personnel of sungard will involve complex operational, technological and personnel-related challenges. this process will be time-consuming and expensive, may disrupt our businesses and may not result in the full benefits we expected, including cost synergies expected to arise from overlapping functions. the potential difficulties, and resulting costs and delays, include: managing a larger combined company; consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; difficulties attracting and retaining key personnel; loss of customers and suppliers and inability to attract new customers and suppliers; unanticipated issues in integrating information technology, communications and other systems; and unforeseen and unexpected liabilities related to the acquisition or legacy sungard business. additionally, the integration of sungard's operations, solutions and personnel may place a significant burden on management and other internal resources. the diversion of management's attention, and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process, could harm the combined company's business, financial condition and operating results. if the combined company is not successfully integrated, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition , including cost synergies, may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. there can be no assurances that the expected benefits and efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses will be realized to offset the integration costs over time. there could be significant liability for us if all or part of the as split-off were determined to be taxable for u.s. federal or state income tax purposes. on march 31, 2014, sungard completed the split-off of its availability services ("as") business to its existing stockholders, including its private equity owners, on a tax-free and pro-rata basis (the as split-off ). at the time sungard received opinions from outside tax counsel to the effect that the as split-off should qualify for tax-free treatment as transactions described in section 355 and related provisions of the internal revenue code, as amended (the code ). in addition, actions taken following the as split-off, including the acquisition and certain 50 percent or greater changes by vote or value of the stock ownership of the new entity conducting the as business, may cause the as split-off to be taxable to fis. in connection with the acquisition, we and sungard received opinions of outside tax counsel to the effect that the acquisition should not cause the as split-off to fail to so qualify. 21 table of contents notwithstanding the receipt of tax opinions, the tax-free treatment of the as split-off is not free from doubt, and there is a risk that the internal revenue service (the irs ), a state taxing authority or a court could conclude to the contrary that the separation of the as business from sungard may not qualify as tax-free transactions. an opinion of tax counsel is not binding on the irs, state taxing authorities or any court and as a result there can be no assurance that a tax authority will not challenge the tax-free treatment of all or part of the as split-off or that, if litigated, a court would not agree with the irs or a state taxing authority. further, these tax opinions rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations, warranties and covenants from sungard, the new entity conducting the as business and from some of sungard's stockholders regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses, share ownership and other matters. if any of the facts, assumptions, representations, warranties and covenants on which the opinions rely is inaccurate or incomplete or not satisfied, the opinions may no longer be valid. moreover, the irs or state taxing authority could determine on audit that the as split-off is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations, warranties or covenants are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with one or more conclusions in the opinions or for other reasons. if the as split-off is determined to be taxable, we and possibly our stockholders could incur significant income tax liabilities. these tax liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. actions taken by sungard availability services capital, inc. or its stockholders could cause the as split-off to fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction, and sungard availability services capital, inc. may be unable to fully indemnify sungard for the resulting significant tax liabilities. pursuant to the tax sharing and disaffiliation agreement ( tax sharing agreement ) that sungard entered into with sungard availability services capital, inc ( spinco ), spinco is required to indemnify sungard for certain taxes relating to the as split-off that result from (i) any breach of the representations or the covenants made by spinco regarding the preservation of the intended tax-free treatment of the as split-off, (ii) any action or omission that is inconsistent with the representations, statements, warranties and covenants provided to tax counsel in connection with their delivery of tax opinions to sungard with respect to the as split-off, and (iii) any other action or omission that was likely to give rise to such taxes when taken, in each case, by spinco or any of its subsidiaries. conversely, if any such taxes are the result of such a breach or certain other actions or omissions by sungard, sungard would be wholly responsible for such taxes. in addition, if any part of the as split-off fails to qualify for the intended tax-free treatment for reasons other than those for which sungard or spinco would be wholly responsible pursuant to the provisions described above, spinco will be obligated to indemnify sungard for 23% of the liability for taxes imposed in respect of the as split-off and sungard would bear the remainder of such taxes. if spinco is required to indemnify sungard for any of the foregoing reasons, spinco's indemnification liabilities could potentially exceed its net asset value and spinco may be unable to fully reimburse or indemnify sungard for its significant tax liabilities arising from the as split-off as provided by the tax sharing agreement. if holders of sungard stock who received fis common stock in the transaction sell that stock, it could adversely affect the market price of fis common stock. all of the shares of fis common stock issued in the acquisition were immediately available for resale in the public market, subject to the limitations on resale by certain sungard stockholders during the first six months following the effective time of the mergers. as a result of future sales of such common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, the market price of fis common stock may be adversely affected. we have a substantial investment in our brazilian venture and obtain significant revenue through that venture that would be lost and result in significant termination costs if our venture partner were to terminate the agreement. revenue attributable to our brazilian venture partner, banco bradesco, was $236.8 million in 2015. the contract that we have with our brazilian venture partner allows for the termination or partial termination of the contract at any point during the 10-year term, which ends september 30, 2020. this risk of contract termination is reduced by guaranteed performance targets and minimum payments that would be triggered upon the event of an early termination. these payments have been established based on fis' expected rate of return for the contract over a 10-year period. the required payments and buyouts decline each year and are further reduced by returns in excess of the expected returns for the contract and reduce the overall barrier to exiting the venture. if our partner were to exit the agreement, this could have a significant impact on our future revenue and growth. for further detail on our brazilian venture see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. additionally, we employ approximately 10,000 employees in brazil who would have the ability to file labor claims if their employment is terminated. if our brazilian venture partner were to terminate the agreement, we, and they, may be subject to labor claims filed by employees of the brazilian venture. these claims, if realized, could result in a significant cost and impact to our earnings. 22 table of contents we have substantial investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of prior acquisitions, and a severe or extended economic downturn could cause these investments to become impaired, requiring write-downs that would reduce our operating income. as of december 31, 2015, goodwill aggregated to $14.7 billion , or 56.1% of total assets, and other indefinite lived intangible assets aggregated to $80.8 million , or 0.3% of total assets. current accounting rules require goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets to be assessed for impairment at least annually or whenever changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment. factors that may be considered a change in circumstance include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. the results of our 2015 annual assessment of the recoverability of goodwill indicated that the fair values of the company's reporting units were in excess of the carrying values of those reporting units, and thus no goodwill impairment existed as of december 31, 2015. likewise, the fair value of indefinite lived intangible assets was also in excess of the carrying value of those assets as of december 31, 2015. however, if worldwide or united states economic conditions decline significantly with negative impacts to bank spending and consumer behavior , or if other business or market changes impact our outlook , the carrying amount of our goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets may no longer be recoverable and we may be required to record an impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. as of december 31, 2015, intangible assets with finite useful lives aggregated to $5,078.4 million , or 19.3% of total assets. current accounting rules require intangible assets with finite useful lives to be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. factors that may be considered a change in circumstance include significant under-performance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. we will continue to monitor the fair value of our intangible assets as well as our market capitalization and the impact of any economic downturn on our business to determine if there is an impairment in future periods. risks related to our indebtedness losses, consolidations and failures in the financial services industry may impact our ability to borrow funds or the ability of our lenders to fulfill their obligations under our interest rate swap agreements. some financial institutions continue to be challenged by negative operating results. in certain cases, these negative operating results have led to financial institution failures and/or consolidations. as a result, lenders may become insolvent, which could in turn make it more difficult or impossible for lenders to perform their obligations under our interest rate swap agreements or for us to borrow under our revolving loan, obtain financing on favorable terms, or obtain financing or interest rate swap agreements at all. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if a financial institution fails to fulfill its obligations under our interest rate swap agreements or we are unable to draw funds under our revolving loan or obtain other cost-effective financing. our existing debt levels and future levels under existing facilities and debt service requirements may adversely affect our financial condition or operational flexibility and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. as of december 31, 2015, we had total debt of approximately $11.5 billion . this level of debt or any increase in our debt level could have adverse consequences for our business, financial condition, operating results and operational flexibility, including the following: (i) the debt level may cause us to have difficulty borrowing money in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; (ii) our debt level may limit operational flexibility and our ability to pursue business opportunities and implement certain business strategies; (iii) some of our debt has a variable rate of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates; (iv) we have a higher level of debt than some of our competitors or potential competitors, which may cause a competitive disadvantage and may reduce flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including increased competition and vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions ; (v) there are significant maturities on our debt that we may not be able to fulfill or that may be refinanced at higher rates; and (vi) if we fail to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding debt or fail to comply with the financial or other restrictive covenants contained in the indenture governing our senior notes, or our credit facility, an event of default could result that could cause all of our debt to become due and payable. 23 table of contents statement regarding forward-looking information the statements contained in this form 10-k or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other statements made by our management that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the u.s. federal securities laws. statements that are not historical facts, including statements regarding our expectations, hopes, intentions, or strategies regarding the future are forward-looking statements. these statements relate to, among other things, future events and our future results and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. any statements that refer to beliefs, expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances and other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. in many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, or continue, or the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements. the risks and uncertainties that forward-looking statements are subject to include without limitation: the risk that the acquisition disrupts current and future plans and operations; the effects of the acquisition on our financial results; potential difficulties in employee retention as a result of the acquisition ; disruption from the acquisition, making it difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully, or that the integration will be more costly or more time-consuming and complex than anticipated; the risk that cost savings and other synergies anticipated to be realized from the acquisition may not be fully realized or may take longer or be more costly to realize than expected; the risk of doing business internationally; changes in general economic, business and political conditions, including the possibility of intensified international hostilities, acts of terrorism, and changes in either or both the united states and international lending, capital and financial markets; the effect of legislative initiatives or proposals, statutory changes, governmental or other applicable regulations and/or changes in industry requirements, including privacy regulations; the risks of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in, or new laws or regulations affecting, the banking, retail and financial services industries or due to financial failures or other setbacks suffered by firms in those industries; changes in the growth rates of the markets for our solutions; failures to adapt solutions to changes in technology or in the marketplace; internal or external security breaches of our systems, including those relating to the unauthorized access, theft, corruption or loss of personal information and computer viruses and other malware affecting our software or platforms, and the reactions of customers, card associations, government regulators and others to any such events; the risk that implementation of software (including software updates) for customers or at customer locations may result in the corruption or loss of data or customer information, interruption of business operations, exposure to liability claims or loss of customers; the reaction of current and potential customers to communications from us or regulators regarding information security, risk management, internal audit or other matters; competitive pressures on pricing related to our solutions including the ability to attract new, or retain existing, customers; an operational or natural disaster at one of our major operations centers; and other risks detailed elsewhere in this risk factors section and in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission. other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. these forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. except as required by applicable law or regulation, we do not undertake (and expressly disclaim) any obligation and do not intend to publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you should carefully consider the possibility that actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks market risk we are exposed to market risks primarily from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we use certain derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward contracts, to manage interest rate and foreign currency risk. we do not use derivatives for trading purposes, to generate income or to engage in speculative activity. interest rate risk in addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by operating activities, we use fixed rate and variable rate debt to finance our operations. we are exposed to interest rate risk on these debt obligations and related interest rate swaps. the senior notes (as described in note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements) represent substantially all of our fixed-rate long-term debt obligations as of december 31, 2015. the carrying value of the notes was $7,450.0 million as of december 31, 2015 . the fair value of the senior notes was approximately $7,478.9 million as of december 31, 2015 . the potential reduction in fair value of the senior notes from a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates would not be material to the overall fair value of the debt. 43 table of contents our floating rate long-term debt obligations principally relate to borrowings under the fis credit agreements (as defined in note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements). an increase of 100 basis points in the libor rate would increase our annual debt service under the fis credit agreements, after we include the impact of our interest rate swaps, by $23.0 million (based on principal amounts outstanding as of december 31, 2015 ). we performed the foregoing sensitivity analysis based on the principal amount of our floating rate debt as of december 31, 2015 , less the principal amount of such debt that was then subject to an interest rate swap converting such debt into fixed rate debt. this sensitivity analysis is based solely on the principal amount of such debt as of december 31, 2015 , and does not take into account any changes that occurred in the prior 12 months or that may take place in the next 12 months in the amount of our outstanding debt or in the notional amount of outstanding interest rate swaps in respect of our debt. further, in this sensitivity analysis, the change in interest rates is assumed to be applicable for an entire year. for comparison purposes, based on principal amounts of floating rate debt outstanding as of december 31, 2014 , and calculated in the same manner as set forth above, an increase of 100 basis points in the libor rate would have increased our annual interest expense, after we calculate the impact of our interest rate swaps, by $14.3 million . we use interest rate swaps for the purpose of managing our interest expense through the mix of fixed rate and floating rate debt. during the year ended december 31, 2015 , the notional amount of our outstanding interest rate swaps increased by $1,150.0 million . as of december 31, 2015 , we have entered into the following interest rate swap transactions converting a portion of the interest rate exposure on our term and revolving loans from variable to fixed (in millions): effective date termination date notional amount bank pays variable rate of fis pays fixed rate of february 3, 2014 february 1, 2017 $ 400.0 one month libor (1) 0.89 % (2) january 4, 2016 january 1, 2017 400.0 one month libor (1) 0.65 % (2) january 4, 2016 january 1, 2018 500.0 one month libor (1) 0.92 % (2) january 4, 2016 january 1, 2019 250.0 one month libor (1) 1.18 % (2) $ 1,550.0 ________________________ (1) 0.43% in effect as of december 31, 2015 . (2) does not include the applicable margin and facility fees paid to lenders on term loans and the revolving loan as described in note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we have designated these interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. a portion of the amount included in accumulated other comprehensive earnings is reclassified into interest expense as a yield adjustment as interest payments are made on the term and revolving loans. in accordance with the authoritative guidance for fair value measurements, the inputs used to determine the estimated fair value of our interest rate swaps are level 2-type measurements. we considered our own credit risk and the credit risk of the counterparties when determining the fair value of our interest rate swaps. in september 2015 in contemplation of issuing long-term financing for the sungard acquisition, the company entered into treasury lock hedges with a total notional amount of $1.0 billion reducing the risk of changes in the benchmark index component of the 10-year treasury yield. the company designated these derivatives as cash flow hedges. on october 13, 2015, in conjunction with the pricing of the $4.5 billion senior notes, the company terminated these treasury lock contracts for a cash settlement payment of $15.9 million , which was recorded as a component of other comprehensive earnings and will be reclassified as an adjustment to interest expense over the ten years during which the related interest payments that were hedged will be recognized in income. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. these risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, transaction gains and losses associated with intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in currencies other than a location's functional currency. our objective is to minimize our exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and the use of foreign currency forward contracts. contracts are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. our exposure to foreign currency exchange risks generally arises from our non-u.s. operations, to the extent they are conducted in local currency. changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect translations of revenues denominated in 44 table of contents currencies other than the u.s. dollar. during the years ended december 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , our international operations generated approximately $1,336.1 million , $1,228.5 million and $1,086.8 million , respectively, in revenues denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the major currencies to which our revenues are exposed are the brazilian real, the euro, the british pound sterling and the indian rupee. a 10% move in average exchange rates for these currencies (assuming a simultaneous and immediate 10% change in all of such rates for the relevant period) would have resulted in the following increase or (decrease) in our reported revenues for the years ended december 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 (in millions): currency 2015 2014 2013 real $ 28.9 $ 38.0 $ 41.3 euro 32.6 30.5 28.2 pound sterling 34.2 30.6 22.4 indian rupee 10.4 8.2 5.4 total impact $ 106.1 $ 107.3 $ 97.3 while our results of operations have been impacted by the effects of currency fluctuations, our international operations' revenues and expenses are generally denominated in local currency, which reduces our economic exposure to foreign exchange risk in those jurisdictions. revenues included $243.1 million and $37.4 million and operating income included $31.3 million , and $8.9 million , respectively, of unfavorable foreign currency impact during 2015 and 2014 resulting from a stronger u.s. dollar during these years compared to the preceding year. in 2016, we expect a moderate increase in unfavorable foreign currency impact on our operating income resulting from the continued strengthening of u.s. dollar vs. other currencies. our foreign exchange risk management policy permits the use of derivative instruments, such as forward contracts and options, to reduce volatility in our results of operations and/or cash flows resulting from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. we do not enter into foreign currency derivative instruments for trading purposes. we do periodically enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency exposure to intercompany loans. as of december 31, 2015 , the notional amount of these derivatives was approximately $81.0 million and the fair value was nominal. these derivatives are intended to hedge the foreign exchange risks related to intercompany loans but have not been designated as hedges for accounting purposes. our subsidiary sungard (see note 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements) historically used currency forward contracts to manage its exposure to fluctuations in costs caused by variations in indian rupee ( inr ) exchange rates. the company assumed certain of these contracts in connection with the acquisition and entered into additional contracts in december 2015. as of december 31, 2015, the notional amount of these derivatives was approximately $50.1 million and the fair value was $1.4 million . these inr forward contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. the fair value of these currency forward contracts is determined using currency exchange market rates, obtained from reliable, independent, third party banks, at the balance sheet date. the fair value of forward contracts is subject to changes in currency exchange rates. the company has no ineffectiveness related to its use of currency forward contracts in connection with inr cash flow hedges. in conjunction with entering into the definitive agreement to acquire clear2pay in september 2014, we initiated a foreign currency forward contract to purchase euros and sell u.s. dollars to manage the risk arising from fluctuations in exchange rates until the closing because the purchase price was stated in euros. as this derivative did not qualify for hedge accounting, we recorded a charge of $16.2 million in other income (expense), net during the third quarter of 2014. this forward contract was settled on october 1, 2014. 45 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors in addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the risks described herein could result in a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. risks related to our business and operations 11 table of contents entity mergers or consolidations and business failures in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our business by eliminating some of our existing and potential clients and making us more dependent on a more limited number of clients. there has been and continues to be substantial consolidation activity in the banking and financial services industry. in addition, many financial institutions that experienced negative operating results, including some of our clients, have failed. these consolidations and failures reduce our number of potential clients and may reduce our number of existing clients, which could adversely affect our revenues, even if the events do not reduce the aggregate activities of the consolidated entities. further, if our clients fail and/or merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce use of our services. it is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidations would have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to innovate or adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose clients or our clients could lose customers and have difficulty attracting new clients for our services. the markets for our services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new services and evolving industry standards. our future success will be significantly affected by our ability to enhance our current solutions and develop and introduce new solutions and services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients and their customers. in addition, as more of our revenue and market demand shifts to saas, cloud, bpaas and new disruptive technologies, the need to keep pace with rapid technology changes becomes more acute. these initiatives carry the risks associated with any new solution development effort, including cost overruns, delays in delivery, and performance issues. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing, marketing and selling new solutions that meet these changing demands, that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, and marketing of these solutions, or that our new solutions and their enhancements will adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. any of these developments could have an adverse impact on our future revenues and/or business prospects. we operate in a competitive business environment and if we are unable to compete effectively our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. the market for our services is intensely competitive. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the solutions and services they offer. some of our competitors have substantial resources. we face direct competition from third parties, and since many of our larger potential clients have historically developed their key applications in-house and therefore view their system requirements from a make-versus-buy perspective, we also often compete against our potential clients' in-house capacities. in addition, the markets in which we compete have recently attracted increasing competition from smaller start-ups with disruptive technologies, which are receiving increasing investments, global banks (and businesses controlled by a combination of global banks) and global internet companies that are introducing competitive products and services into the marketplace, particularly in the payments area. emerging technologies and increased competition may also have the effect of unbundling bank solutions and result in picking off solutions we are currently providing from our legacy systems. international competitors are also now targeting and entering the u.s. market with greater force. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. see "item i. business. competition ." global economic, political and other conditions, including business cycles and consumer confidence, may adversely affect our clients or trends in consumer spending, which may adversely impact the demand for our services and our revenue and profitability. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from transaction processing fees. the global transaction processing industries depend heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. any change in economic factors, including a sustained deterioration in general economic conditions or consumer confidence, particularly in the united states, or increases in interest rates in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer spending, including related consumer debt, further reduce check writing and change credit and debit card usage, and as a result, adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions that we service. 12 table of contents when there is a slowdown or downturn in the economy, a drop in stock market levels or trading volumes, or an event that disrupts the financial markets, our business and financial results, particularly with respect to our capital markets businesses, may suffer for a number of reasons. customers may react to worsening conditions by reducing their capital expenditures in general or by specifically reducing their information technology spending. in addition, customers may curtail or discontinue trading operations, delay or cancel information technology projects, or seek to lower their costs by renegotiating vendor contracts. moreover, competitors may respond to market conditions by lowering prices and attempting to lure away our customers to lower cost solutions. any more protective trade policies or actions taken by the u.s. may also result in other countries reducing or making more expensive services permitted to be provided by u.s. based companies. if any of these circumstances remain in effect for an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial results. constraints within global financial markets or international regulatory requirements could constrain our financial institution clients' ability to purchase our services, impacting our future growth and profitability. a significant number of our clients and potential clients may hold sovereign debt of economically struggling nations or be subject to emerging international requirements such as basel iii, which could require changes in their capitalization and hence the amount of their working capital available to purchase our services. these potential constraints could alter the ability of clients or potential clients to purchase our services and thus could have a significant impact on our future growth and profitability. the sales and implementation cycles for many of our software and service offerings can be lengthy and require significant investment from both our clients and fis. if we fail to close sales or if a client chooses not to complete an installation after expending significant time and resources to do so, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. the sales and associated deployment of many of our software or service offerings often involve significant capital commitments by our clients and/or fis. potential clients generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available software and services and require us to expend substantial time, effort, and money educating them prior to sales. further, as part of the sale or deployment of our software and services, clients may also require fis to perform significant related services to complete a proof of concept or custom development to meet their needs. all of the aforementioned activities may expend significant funds and management resources and, ultimately, the client may determine not to close the sale or complete the implementation. if we are unsuccessful in closing sales or if the client decides not to complete an implementation after we expend significant funds and management resources or we experience delays, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our results may fluctuate from period to period because of the lengthy and unpredictable sales cycle for our software, changes in our mix of licenses and services, activity by competitors, and customer budgeting, operational requirements or renewal cycles. particularly with respect to gfs, our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and be difficult to predict in a particular period due to the timing and magnitude of software license sales and other factors. we offer a number of our software solutions on a license basis, which means that the customer has the right to run the software on its own computers. the customer usually makes a significant up-front payment to license software, which we generally recognize as revenue when the license contract is signed and the software is delivered. the size of the up-front payment often depends on a number of factors that are different for each customer, such as the number of customer locations, users or accounts. the sales cycle for a software license may be lengthy and take unexpected turns. further, our customers' business models are shifting away from paying upfront license fees to paying periodic rental fees for services. thus, it is difficult to predict when software sales will occur or how much revenue they will generate. since there are few incremental costs associated with software sales, our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year due to the timing and magnitude of software sales. our results may also vary as a result of pricing pressures, increased cost of equipment, the evolving and unpredictable markets in which our solutions and services are sold, changes in accounting principles, and competitors' new solutions or services. in addition, there are a number of other factors that could cause our sales and results of operation to fluctuate from period to period, including: customers periodically renew or upgrade their installed base of our solutions, which trigger buying cycles for current or new versions of our solutions and our revenue generally fluctuates with these refresh cycles as a result; the budgeting cycles and purchasing practices of customers, particularly large customers; changes in customer, distributor or reseller requirements or market needs; 13 table of contents deferral of orders from customers in anticipation of new solutions or offerings announced by us or our competitors or otherwise anticipated by the market; our ability to successfully expand our business domestically and internationally; and insolvency or credit difficulties confronting our customers, which could adversely affect their ability to purchase or pay for our solutions. failure to obtain new clients or renew client contracts on favorable terms could adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. we may face pricing pressure in obtaining and retaining our clients. larger clients may be able to seek price reductions from us when they renew a contract, when a contract is extended, or when the client's business has significant volume changes. they may also reduce services if they decide to move services in-house. further, our smaller and mid-size clients may also exert pricing pressure, particularly on renewal, due to pricing competition or other economic needs or pressures being experienced by the client. on some occasions, this pricing pressure results in lower revenue from a client than we had anticipated based on our previous agreement with that client. this reduction in revenue could result in an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. further, failure to renew client contracts on favorable terms could have an adverse effect on our business. our contracts with clients generally run for several years and include liquidated damage provisions that provide for early termination fees. terms are generally renegotiated prior to the end of a contract's term. if we are not successful in achieving a high rate of contract renewals on favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. our business and operating results could be adversely affected if we experience business interruptions, errors or failure in connection with our or third-party information technology and communication systems and other software and hardware used in connection with our business, if we experience defects or design errors in the software solutions we offer, or more generally, if the third-party vendors we rely upon are unwilling or unable to provide the services we need to effectively operate our business. many of our services, including our transformation services, are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new technology solutions and services. further, the technology solutions underlying our services have occasionally contained and may in the future contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on platforms used by our clients or our clients may cancel a project after we have expended significant effort and resources to complete an installation. finally, our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. defects in our technology solutions, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions, or other difficulties could result in: (i) interruption of business operations; (ii) delay in market acceptance; (iii) additional development and remediation costs; (iv) diversion of technical and other resources; (v) loss of clients; (vi) negative publicity; or (vii) exposure to liability claims. any one or more of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through controls, including system redundancies, security controls, application development and testing controls, and disclaimers and limitation-of-liability provisions in our license and client agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will always be successful in preventing disruption or limiting our liability. further, most of the solutions we offer are very complex software systems that are regularly updated. no matter how careful the design and development, complex software often contains errors and defects when first introduced and when major new updates or enhancements are released. if errors or defects are discovered in current or future solutions, we may not be able to correct them in a timely manner, if at all. in our development of updates and enhancements to our software solutions, we may make a major design error that makes the solution operate incorrectly or less efficiently. the failure of software to properly perform could result in the company and its clients being subjected to losses or liability, including censures, fines, or other sanctions by the applicable regulatory authorities, and we could be liable to parties who are financially harmed by those errors. in addition, such errors could cause the company to lose revenues, lose clients or damage its reputation. in addition, we generally depend on a number of third parties, both in the united states and internationally, to supply elements of our systems, computers, research and market data, connectivity, communication network infrastructure, other equipment and related support and maintenance. we cannot be certain that any of these third parties will be able to continue providing these services to effectively meet our evolving needs. if our vendors, or in certain cases vendors of our customers, fail to meet their obligations, provide poor or untimely service, or we are unable to make alternative arrangements for the provision of these services, we may in turn fail to provide our services or to meet our obligations to our customers, and our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially harmed. 14 table of contents the dodd-frank act may result in business changes for our clients that have or could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, or prospects for future growth and overall business . our clients are required to comply with numerous regulations. the dodd-frank act and associated durbin amendment were passed and signed into law in 2010. the dodd-frank act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the regulations governing the financial services industry within the united states. the dodd-frank act established the cfpb and requires this and other federal agencies to implement many new regulations, which have the potential to increase the amount and types of regulation on areas of our business that were not previously regulated. several regulations and rules have or will be written and implemented as directed by the dodd-frank act. these rules and regulations have or will require our clients or potential clients to comply with requirements and could require us to directly comply with regulations. these requirements have or could result in the need for fis to make capital investments to modify our solutions and services to facilitate our clients' and potential clients' compliance, as well as to deploy additional processes or reporting to comply with regulations. further, requirements of the regulations have or could result in changes in our clients' business practices and those of other marketplace participants that may alter the delivery of services to consumers, which have or could impact the demand for our software and services as well as alter the type or volume of transactions that we process on behalf of our clients. as a result, these requirements have or could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. many of our clients are subject to a regulatory environment and to industry standards that may change in a manner that reduces the types or volume of solutions or services we provide, or may reduce the type or number of transactions in which our clients engage, and therefore, reduces our revenues. our clients are subject to a number of government regulations and industry standards with which our services must comply. our clients must ensure that our services and related solutions work within the extensive and evolving regulatory and industry requirements applicable to them. federal, state, foreign or industry authorities could adopt laws, rules or regulations affecting our clients' businesses that could lead to increased operating costs and could reduce the convenience and functionality of our services, possibly resulting in reduced market acceptance. in addition, action by regulatory authorities relating to credit availability, data usage, privacy, or other related regulatory developments could have an adverse effect on our clients and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. elimination of regulatory requirements could also adversely affect the sales of our solutions designed to help clients comply with complex regulatory environments. regulations enacted by the cfpb or state regulatory authorities, such as the new york state department of financial services, may require fis to adopt new business practices which may require capital investment and/or incremental expenses which could impact our future operating results. the cfpb regulates financial and non-financial institutions and providers to those institutions. the cfpb continues to establish rules for regulating non-financial institution providers to ensure adequate protection of consumer privacy and to ensure consumers are not impacted by deceptive business practices. the new york department of financial services has proposed new rules that would require covered financial institutions to establish and maintain cyber security programs. the impact of these rules and proposed rules may require fis to be subject to additional regulation and adopt additional business practices that could require additional capital expenditures or impact our operating results. our revenues from the sale of services to members of visa, mastercard, american express, discover and other similar organizations are dependent upon our continued certification and sponsorship, and the loss or suspension of certification or sponsorship could adversely affect our business. in order to provide our card processing services, we must be certified (including applicable sponsorship) by visa, mastercard, american express, discover and other similar organizations. these certifications are dependent upon our continued adherence to the standards of the issuing bodies and sponsoring member banks. the member financial institutions, some of which are our competitors, set the standards with which we must comply. if we fail to comply with these standards we could be fined, our certifications could be suspended, or our registration could be terminated. the suspension or termination of our certifications, or any changes in the rules and regulations governing visa, mastercard, american express, discover, or other similar organizations, could result in a reduction in revenue or increased costs of operation, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. changes in card association and debit network fees or products could increase costs or otherwise limit our operations. 15 table of contents from time to time, card associations and debit networks increase the interchange fees that they charge. it is possible that competitive pressures will result in our absorption of a portion of such increases in the future, which would increase our operating costs, reduce our profit margin and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. furthermore, the rules and regulations of the various card associations and networks prescribe certain capital requirements. any increase in the capital level required would further limit our use of capital for other purposes. interchange fees and related practices have been receiving significant legal and regulatory scrutiny worldwide. the resulting regulatory changes that could occur from proposed regulations could alter the fees charged by card associations and debit networks worldwide. such changes could have an adverse impact on our business or financial condition due to reductions or changes in types of transactions processed on behalf of our clients. our securities brokerage operations are highly regulated and subject to risks that are not encountered in our other businesses. one of our subsidiaries is an sec registered broker-dealer in the u.s. and others are authorized by the fca to conduct certain regulated business in the u.k. domestic and foreign regulatory and self-regulatory organizations, such as the sec, the finra, and the fca can, among other things, fine, censure, issue cease-and-desist orders against, and suspend or expel a broker-dealer or its officers or employees for failure to comply with the many laws and regulations that govern brokerage activities. such sanctions may arise out of currently-conducted activities or those conducted in prior periods. our ability to comply with these laws and regulations is largely dependent on our establishment, maintenance, and enforcement of an effective brokerage compliance program. failure to establish, maintain, and enforce the required brokerage compliance procedures, even if unintentional, could subject us to significant losses, lead to disciplinary or other actions, and tarnish our reputation. regulations affecting the brokerage industry may change, which could adversely affect our financial results. we are exposed to certain risks relating to the execution services provided by our brokerage operations to our customers and counterparties, which include other broker-dealers, active traders, hedge funds, asset managers, and other institutional and non-institutional clients. these risks include, but are not limited to, customers or counterparties failing to pay for or deliver securities, trading errors, the inability or failure to settle trades, and trade execution system failures. in our other businesses, we generally can disclaim liability for trading losses that may be caused by our software, but in our brokerage operations, we may not be able to limit our liability for trading losses or failed trades even when we are not at fault. as a result, we may suffer losses that are disproportionately large compared to the relatively modest profit contributions of our brokerage operations. if we fail to comply with applicable regulations or to meet regulatory expectations, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely impacted. the majority of our data processing services for financial institutions are not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. however, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, our data processing operations are examined on a regular basis by various federal and state regulatory authorities and by international regulatory authorities, such as the fca, in certain jurisdictions. if we fail to comply with any applicable regulations or guidelines for operations of a data services provider, we could be subject to regulatory actions or rating changes, may not meet contractual obligations, and may suffer harm to our client relationships or reputation. failure to meet the aforementioned requirements or to adapt to new requirements at the federal, state or international level could inhibit our ability to retain existing clients or obtain new clients, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition to our data processing services described above, we also have business operations that store, process or transmit consumer information or have direct relationships with consumers that are obligated to comply with regulations, including, but not limited to, the federal fair credit reporting act, the federal fair debt collection practices act and applicable privacy requirements. further, our international businesses must comply with applicable laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act. failure to maintain compliance with or adapt to changes in any of the aforementioned requirements could result in fines, penalties or regulatory actions that could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. security breaches or attacks, or our failure to comply with information security laws, or regulations or industry security requirements, could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation and could result in a breach of one or more client contracts. 16 table of contents we electronically receive, process, store and transmit sensitive business information of our clients. in addition, we collect personal consumer data, such as names and addresses, social security numbers, driver's license numbers, cardholder data and payment history records. such information is necessary to support our clients' transaction processing and to conduct our check authorization and collection businesses. the uninterrupted operation of our information systems, as well as the confidentiality of the customer/consumer information that resides on such systems, is critical to our successful operation. if we fail to maintain an adequate security infrastructure, adapt to emerging security threats, or implement sufficient security standards and technology to protect against security breaches, the confidentiality of the information we secure could be compromised. unauthorized access to our computer systems or databases could result in the theft or publication of confidential information, the deletion or modification of records, or could otherwise cause interruptions in our operations. these risks are greater with increased information transmission over the internet and the increasing level of sophistication posed by cyber criminals. as a provider of services to financial institutions and a provider of card processing services, we are bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information we receive from our clients as apply to the clients themselves. if we fail to comply with these regulations and industry security requirements, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract, governmental proceedings, and the imposition of fines, or prohibitions on card processing services. in addition, if more restrictive privacy laws, rules or industry security requirements are adopted in the future on the federal or state level, or by a specific industry body, they could have an adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on business processes. any inability to prevent security or privacy breaches, or the perception that such breaches may occur, could cause our existing clients to lose confidence in our systems and terminate their agreements with us, inhibit our ability to attract new clients, result in increasing regulation, or bring about other adverse consequences from the government agencies that regulate our business. high profile payment card industry or digital banking security breaches could impact consumer payment behavior patterns in the future and reduce our card payment transaction volumes. we are unable to predict whether or when high profile card payment or digital banking security breaches will occur and if they occur, whether consumers will transact less on their payment cards or reduce their digital banking service. if consumers transact less on cards issued by our clients or reduce digital banking services and we are not able to adapt to offer our clients alternative technologies, it could have a significant adverse impact on our revenue and related earnings. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights or a finding that our patents are invalid could impair our competitive position. our ability to compete depends in some part upon our proprietary solutions and technology. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary or challenge the validity of our patents with governmental authorities. policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult. we cannot make any assurances that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of technology or that the agreements entered into for that purpose will be enforceable. effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available online. misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if our applications or services are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we may be required to change our business practices and may also become subject to significant costs and monetary penalties. as our information technology applications and services develop, we are increasingly subject to infringement claims. any claims, whether with or without merit, could: (i) be expensive and time-consuming to defend; (ii) result in an injunction or other equitable relief which could cause us to cease making, licensing or using applications that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; (iii) require us to redesign our applications, if feasible; (iv) divert management's attention and resources; and (v) require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies or pay damages resulting from any infringing use. some of our solutions contain open source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business. we use a limited amount of software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called open source licenses and may continue to use such software in the future. some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software, and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. by the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our 17 table of contents proprietary software if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner. additionally, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by united states or other courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our solutions. in addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. we have established processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening requests from our development organizations for the use of open source, but we cannot be sure that all open source is submitted for approval prior to use in our solutions. in addition, many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. we face liability to our merchant clients if checks that we have guaranteed are dishonored by the check writer's bank. if checks that we have guaranteed are dishonored by the check writers' banks, we must reimburse our merchant clients for the checks' face value and pursue collection from the check writers. in some cases, we recognize a liability to our merchant clients for estimated check returns and a receivable for amounts we estimate we will recover from the check writers, based on historical experience and other relevant factors. the estimated check returns and recovery amounts are subject to the risk that actual amounts returned may exceed our estimates and actual amounts recovered by us may be less than our estimates. changes in economic conditions, the risk characteristics and composition of our clients and other factors could impact our actual and projected amounts. lack of system integrity, fraudulent payments, credit quality, and undetected errors related to funds settlement or the availability of clearing services could result in a financial loss. we settle funds on behalf of financial institutions, other businesses and consumers and receive funds from clients, card issuers, payment networks and consumers on a daily basis for a variety of transaction types. transactions facilitated by us include debit card, credit card, electronic bill payment transactions, banking payments and check clearing that supports consumers, financial institutions and other businesses. these payment activities rely upon the technology infrastructure that facilitates the verification of activity with counterparties, the facilitation of the payment as well as the detection or prevention of fraudulent payments. if our continuity of operations, integrity of processing, or ability to detect or prevent fraudulent payments were compromised, this could result in a financial loss to us. in addition, we rely on various financial institutions to provide ach services in support of funds settlement for certain of our solutions. if we are unable to obtain such ach services in the future, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. in addition, we may issue credit to consumers, financial institutions or other businesses as part of the funds settlement. a default on this credit by a counterparty could result in a financial loss to us. furthermore, if one of our clients for which we facilitate settlement suffers a fraudulent event due to an error of their controls, we may suffer a financial loss if the client does not have sufficient capital to cover the loss. failure to properly manage or mitigate risks in the operation of our wealth management businesses in the u.s and the u.k could have adverse liability consequences. we have wealth management businesses in the u.s. and u.k. engaged in processing securities transactions on behalf of clients and serving as a custodian. failure to properly manage or mitigate risks in those operations and increased volatility in the financial markets may increase the potential for and magnitude of resulting losses, including those that may arise from human errors or omissions, defects or interruptions in computer or communications systems or breakdowns in processes or in internal controls. human errors or omissions may include failures to comply with applicable laws or corporate policies and procedures, theft, fraud or misappropriation of assets, whether arising from the intentional actions of internal personnel or external third parties. in addition, the u.s.-based business holds charters in the states of georgia and delaware which exposes us to further regulatory compliance requirements of the georgia department of banking and finance and the office of the commissioner of banking in the state of delaware. the u.s. wealth management business is required to hold certain levels of regulatory capital as defined by the state banking regulators in the states in which they hold a bank or trust charter (delaware and georgia). in the u.k., our platform securities and broker dealer businesses are regulated by the fca and are subject to further regulatory capital requirements. we also have registered investment advisor and transfer agent businesses regulated by the sec and subject to further regulatory requirements. our business is subject to the risks of international operations, including movements in foreign currency exchange rates. 18 table of contents the international operations of fis represented approximately 24% of our total 2016 revenues, and are largely conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the brazilian real, british pound, euro and indian rupee. our business and financial results could be adversely affected due to a variety of factors, including: changes in a specific country or region's political and cultural climate or economic condition, including change in governmental regime; unexpected or unfavorable changes in foreign laws, regulatory requirements and related interpretations; difficulty of effective enforcement of contractual provisions in local jurisdictions; inadequate intellectual property protection in foreign countries; trade-protection measures, import or export licensing requirements such as export administration regulations promulgated by the u.s. department of commerce and fines, penalties or suspension or revocation of export privileges; trade sanctions imposed by the united states or other governments with jurisdictional authority over our business operations; the effects of applicable and potentially adverse foreign tax law changes; significant adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates; longer accounts receivable cycles; managing a geographically dispersed workforce; and compliance with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, or fcpa, and the office of foreign assets control regulations, particularly in emerging markets. in foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, certain business practices may exist that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and other anti-corruption laws. although our policies and procedures require compliance with these laws and are designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents may take actions in violation of applicable laws or our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation. as we expand our international operations, more of our clients may pay us in foreign currencies. conducting business in currencies other than u.s. dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that can negatively impact our results, period to period, including relative to analyst estimates or guidance. our primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relates to foreign currencies in brazil, europe, including the united kingdom, australia and parts of asia. the u.s. dollar value of our net investments in foreign operations, the periodic conversion of foreign-denominated earnings to the u.s. dollar (our reporting currency), and our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, could be adversely affected in a material manner by movements in foreign currency exchange rates. these risks could cause an adverse effect on the business, financial position and results of operations of the company. the referendum on the united kingdom's membership in the european union could cause disruption to and create uncertainty surrounding our business. the referendum on the united kingdom's (the u.k.) membership in the european union (the e.u.) (referred to as brexit ), approving the exit of the united kingdom from the european union could cause disruptions to and create uncertainty surrounding our business, including affecting our relationships with our existing and future clients, suppliers and employees, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial results and operations. while the referendum is non-binding, the u.k. government has announced that it intends to commence negotiations to determine the future terms of the u.k.'s relationship with the e.u., including the terms of trade between the u.k. and the e.u. and other nations. the effects of brexit will depend on any agreements the u.k. makes to retain access to e.u. markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. in addition, because the terms of trade between the u.k. and jurisdictions other than the e.u. may be currently governed by trade agreements between the e.u. and such other jurisdictions, the u.k. may be required to negotiate new terms of trade with such other jurisdictions. these potential measures could disrupt the markets we serve and the tax jurisdictions in which we operate and adversely change tax benefits or liabilities in these or other jurisdictions, and may cause us to lose clients, suppliers, and employees. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the u.k. determines which e.u. laws to replace or replicate. the announcement of brexit caused initial volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations that resulted in the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies in which we conduct business. the strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies may adversely affect our results of operations, in a number of ways, including: 19 table of contents our international sales are denominated in both the u.s. dollar and currencies other than u.s. dollars. a fluctuation of currency exchange rates may expose us to gains and losses on non-u.s. currency transactions and a potential devaluation of the local currencies of our clients relative to the u.s. dollar may impair the purchasing power of our clients and could cause clients to decrease or cancel orders or default on payment; and we translate sales and other results denominated in non-u.s. foreign currency into u.s. dollars for our financial statements. during periods of a strengthening dollar, our reported international sales and earnings could be reduced because foreign currencies may translate into fewer u.s. dollars. actions to implement brexit may also create global economic uncertainty, which may cause our clients to closely monitor their costs and reduce their spending on our solutions and services. any of these effects of brexit, among others, could materially adversely affect our business, business opportunities, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we have businesses in emerging markets that may experience significant economic volatility. we have operations in emerging markets, primarily in brazil, india, southeast asia, the middle east and africa. these emerging market economies tend to be more volatile than the more established markets we serve in north america and europe, which could add volatility to our future revenues and earnings. failure to attract and retain skilled technical employees or senior management personnel could harm our ability to grow. our future success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled technical personnel. because the development of our solutions and services requires knowledge of computer hardware, operating system software, system management software and application software, our technical personnel must be proficient in a number of disciplines. competition for such technical personnel is intense, and our failure to hire and retain talented personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. our future growth will also require sales and marketing, financial and administrative personnel to develop and support new solutions and services, to enhance and support current solutions and services and to expand operational and financial systems. there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our growth strategies and we may experience constraints that could adversely affect our ability to satisfy client demand in a timely fashion. our ability to maintain compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations and to manage and monitor the risks facing our business relies upon the ability to maintain skilled compliance, security, risk and audit professionals. competition for such skillsets is intense, and our failure to hire and retain talented personnel could have an adverse effect on our internal control environment and impact our operating results. our senior management team has significant experience in the financial services industry and the loss of this leadership could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. further, the loss of this leadership may have an adverse impact on senior management's ability to provide effective oversight and strategic direction for all key functions within the company, which could impact our future business, operating results and financial condition. we are the subject of various legal proceedings that could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. we are involved in various litigation matters, including in some cases class-action and patent infringement litigation. if we are unsuccessful in our defense of litigation matters, we may be forced to pay damages and/or change our business practices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies or unfavorable future tax law changes could adversely affect our tax expense. our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. an unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, and could negatively impact our effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the current and/or future periods. unfavorable future tax law changes could also result in these negative impacts. in addition, tax-law amendments in the united states and other jurisdictions could significantly impact how united states multinational corporations are taxed. although we cannot predict whether or in what form such legislation will pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. 20 table of contents a material weakness in our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on us. effectiv e internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to adequately mitigate risk of fraud. if we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and adequately mitigate risk of fraud, our reputation and operating results could be harmed. internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. in addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. a material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. if we are unable to report financial information timely and accurately or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the sec, any one of which could adversely affect our business prospects. risks related to business combinations and ventures we continue to incur substantial expenses related to the sungard acquisition, which was completed on november 30, 2015, and the integration of sungard. we continue to incur substantial expenses in connection with the integration of sungard. we continue to integrate a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems, including information technology, data centers, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing, information security, risk, legal, marketing and human resources, including payroll and employee benefits. while we have attempted to estimate the after-tax integration and restructuring costs and other costs incurred to execute the transaction following completion of the sungard acquisition, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. although we expect that the realization of efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses will offset incremental transaction, merger-related and restructuring costs over time, we cannot give any assurance that this net benefit will be achieved in the near term, or at all. there could be significant liability for us if all or part of the as split-off were determined to be taxable for u.s. federal or state income tax purposes. on march 31, 2014, sungard completed the split-off of its availability services ("as") business to its existing stockholders, including its private equity owners, on a tax-free and pro-rata basis (the as split-off ). at the time sungard received opinions from outside tax counsel to the effect that the as split-off should qualify for tax-free treatment as transactions described in section 355 and related provisions of the internal revenue code, as amended (the code ). in addition, actions taken following the as split-off, including the sungard acquisition and certain 50 percent or greater changes by vote or value of the stock ownership of the new entity conducting the as business, may cause the as split-off to be taxable to fis. in connection with the sungard acquisition, we and sungard received opinions of outside tax counsel to the effect that the sungard acquisition should not cause the as split-off to fail to so qualify. notwithstanding the receipt of tax opinions, the tax-free treatment of the as split-off is not free from doubt, and there is a risk that the internal revenue service (the irs ), a state taxing authority or a court could conclude to the contrary that the separation of the as business from sungard may not qualify as tax-free transactions. an opinion of tax counsel is not binding on the irs, state taxing authorities or any court and as a result there can be no assurance that a tax authority will not challenge the tax-free treatment of all or part of the as split-off or that, if litigated, a court would not agree with the irs or a state taxing authority. further, these tax opinions rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations, warranties and covenants from sungard, the new entity conducting the as business and from some of sungard's stockholders regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses, share ownership and other matters. if any of the facts, assumptions, representations, warranties and covenants on which the opinions rely is inaccurate or incomplete or not satisfied, the opinions may no longer be valid. moreover, the irs or state taxing authority could determine on audit that the as split-off is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations, warranties or covenants are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with one or more conclusions in the opinions or for other reasons. if the as split-off is determined to be taxable, we and possibly our stockholders could incur significant income tax liabilities. these tax liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 21 table of contents actions taken by sungard availability services capital, inc. or its stockholders could cause the as split-off to fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction, and sungard availability services capital, inc. may be unable to fully indemnify sungard for the resulting significant tax liabilities. pursuant to the tax sharing and disaffiliation agreement ( tax sharing agreement ) that sungard entered into with sungard availability services capital, inc. ( spinco ), spinco is required to indemnify sungard for certain taxes relating to the as split-off that result from (i) any breach of the representations or the covenants made by spinco regarding the preservation of the intended tax-free treatment of the as split-off, (ii) any action or omission that is inconsistent with the representations, statements, warranties and covenants provided to tax counsel in connection with their delivery of tax opinions to sungard with respect to the as split-off, and (iii) any other action or omission that was likely to give rise to such taxes when taken, in each case, by spinco or any of its subsidiaries. conversely, if any such taxes are the result of such a breach or certain other actions or omissions by sungard, sungard would be wholly responsible for such taxes. in addition, if any part of the as split-off fails to qualify for the intended tax-free treatment for reasons other than those for which sungard or spinco would be wholly responsible pursuant to the provisions described above, spinco will be obligated to indemnify sungard for 23% of the liability for taxes imposed in respect of the as split-off and sungard would bear the remainder of such taxes. if spinco is required to indemnify sungard for any of the foregoing reasons, spinco's indemnification liabilities could potentially exceed its net asset value and spinco may be unable to fully reimburse or indemnify sungard for its significant tax liabilities arising from the as split-off as provided by the tax sharing agreement. we have a substantial investment in our brazilian venture and obtain significant revenue through that venture that would be lost and result in significant termination costs if our venture partner were to terminate the agreement. brazilian venture revenue attributable to our brazilian venture partner, banco bradesco, was $245 million in 2016. the contract that we have with our brazilian venture partner allows for the termination or partial termination of the contract at any point during the 10-year term, which ends september 30, 2020. this risk of contract termination is reduced by guaranteed performance targets and minimum payments that would be triggered upon the event of an early termination. these payments have been established based on fis' expected rate of return for the contract over a 10-year period. the required payments and buyouts decline each year and are further reduced by returns in excess of the expected returns for the contract and reduce the overall barrier to exiting the venture. if our partner were to exit the agreement, this could have a significant impact on our future revenue and growth. for further detail on our brazilian venture see note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. additionally, we employ approximately 10,000 employees in brazil who would have the ability to file labor claims if their employment is terminated. if our brazilian venture partner were to terminate the agreement, we, and they, may be subject to labor claims filed by employees of the brazilian venture. these claims, if realized, could result in a significant cost and impact to our earnings. we have substantial investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of prior acquisitions, and a severe or extended economic downturn could cause these investments to become impaired, requiring write-downs that would reduce our operating income. as of december 31, 2016, goodwill aggregated to $14.2 billion , or 54.5% of total assets, and other indefinite-lived intangible assets aggregated to $80 million , or 0.3% of total assets. current accounting rules require goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets to be assessed for impairment at least annually or whenever changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment. factors that may be considered a change in circumstance include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. the results of our 2016 annual assessment of the recoverability of goodwill indicated that the fair values of the company's reporting units were in excess of the carrying values of those reporting units, and thus no goodwill impairment existed as of december 31, 2016. likewise, the fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets was also in excess of the carrying value of those assets as of december 31, 2016. however, if worldwide or united states economic conditions decline significantly with negative impacts to bank spending and consumer behavior , or if other business or market changes impact our outlook , the carrying amount of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets may no longer be recoverable and we may be required to record an impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. as of december 31, 2016, intangible assets with finite useful lives aggregated to $4,584 million , or 17.6% of total assets. current accounting rules require intangible assets with finite useful lives to be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. factors that may be considered 22 table of contents a change in circumstance include significant under-performance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. we will continue to monitor the fair value of our intangible assets as well as our market capitalization and the impact of any economic downturn on our business to determine if there is an impairment in future periods. risks related to our indebtedness our existing debt levels and future levels under existing facilities and debt service requirements may adversely affect our financial condition or operational flexibility and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. as of december 31, 2016, we had total debt of approximately $10.5 billion . this level of debt or any increase in our debt level could have adverse consequences for our business, financial condition, operating results and operational flexibility, including the following: (i) the debt level may cause us to have difficulty borrowing money in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; (ii) our debt level may limit operational flexibility and our ability to pursue business opportunities and implement certain business strategies; (iii) some of our debt has a variable rate of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates; (iv) we have a higher level of debt than some of our competitors or potential competitors, which may cause a competitive disadvantage and may reduce flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including increased competition and vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions ; (v) there are significant maturities on our debt that we may not be able to repay at maturity or that may be refinanced at higher rates; and (vi) if we fail to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding debt or fail to comply with the financial or other restrictive covenants contained in the indenture governing our senior notes, or our credit facility, an event of default could result that could cause all of our debt to become due and payable. statement regarding forward-looking information the statements contained in this form 10-k or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other statements made by our management that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the u.s. federal securities laws. statements that are not historical facts, including statements about anticipated financial outcomes, including any earnings guidance of the company, business and market conditions, outlook, foreign currency exchange rates, expected dividends and share repurchases, the company's sales pipeline and anticipated profitability and growth, as well as other statements about our expectations, hopes, intentions, or strategies regarding the future are forward-looking statements. these statements relate to future events and our future results and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. any statements that refer to beliefs, expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances and other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. in many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, or continue, or the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements. the risks and uncertainties that forward-looking statements are subject to include without limitation: the risk that acquired businesses will not be integrated successfully, or that the integration will be more costly or more time-consuming and complex than anticipated; the risk that cost savings and other synergies anticipated to be realized from acquisitions may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; the risks of doing business internationally; changes in general economic, business and political conditions, including the possibility of intensified international hostilities, acts of terrorism, changes in either or both the united states and international lending, capital and financial markets and currency fluctuations; the effect of legislative initiatives or proposals, statutory changes, governmental or other applicable regulations and/or changes in industry requirements, including privacy regulations; the risks of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in, or new laws or regulations affecting, the banking, retail and financial services industries or due to financial failures or other setbacks suffered by firms in those industries; changes in the growth rates of the markets for our solutions; failure to adapt our solutions to changes in technology or in the marketplace; 23 table of contents internal or external security breaches of our systems, including those relating to unauthorized access, theft, corruption or loss of personal information and computer viruses and other malware affecting our software or platforms, and the reactions of customers, card associations, government regulators and others to any such events; the risk that implementation of software (including software updates) for customers or at customer locations may result in the corruption or loss of data or customer information, interruption of business operations, exposure to liability claims or loss of customers; the reaction of current and potential customers to communications from us or regulators regarding information security, risk management, internal audit or other matters; competitive pressures on pricing related to the decreasing number of community banks in the u.s., the development of new disruptive technologies competing with one or more of our solutions, increasing presence of international competitors in the u.s. market and the entry into the market by global banks and global companies with respect to certain competitive solutions, each of which may have the impact of unbundling our solutions with our customers; the failure to innovate in order to keep up with new emerging technologies could impact our solutions, including the ability to attract new, or retain existing, customers; an operational or natural disaster at one of our major operations centers; and other risks detailed elsewhere in this risk factors section and in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission. other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. these forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. except as required by applicable law or regulation, we do not undertake (and expressly disclaim) any obligation and do not intend to publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you should carefully consider the possibility that actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks market risk we are exposed to market risks primarily from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we use certain derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward contracts, to manage interest rate and foreign currency risk. we do not use derivatives for trading purposes to generate income or to engage in speculative activity. interest rate risk in addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by operating activities, we use fixed rate and variable rate debt to finance our operations. we are exposed to interest rate risk on these debt obligations and related interest rate swaps. the senior notes (as described in note 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements) represent substantially all of our fixed-rate long-term debt obligations as of december 31, 2016. the carrying value of the notes was $9,950 million as of december 31, 2016 . the fair value of the senior notes was approximately $10,133 million as of december 31, 2016 . the potential reduction in fair value of the senior notes from a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates would not be material to the overall fair value of the debt. our floating rate long-term debt obligations principally relate to borrowings under the fis credit agreements (as defined in note 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements). an increase of 100 basis points in the libor rate would increase our annual debt service under the fis credit agreements, after we include the impact of our interest rate swaps, by $1 million (based on principal amounts outstanding as of december 31, 2016 ). we performed the foregoing sensitivity analysis based on the principal amount of our floating rate debt as of december 31, 2016 , less the principal amount of such debt that was then subject to an interest rate swap converting such debt into fixed rate debt. this sensitivity analysis is based solely on 44 table of contents the principal amount of such debt as of december 31, 2016 , and does not take into account any changes that occurred in the prior 12 months or that may take place in the next 12 months in the amount of our outstanding debt or in the notional amount of outstanding interest rate swaps in respect of our debt. further, in this sensitivity analysis the change in interest rates is assumed to be applicable for an entire year. for comparison purposes, based on principal amounts of floating rate debt outstanding as of december 31, 2015 , and calculated in the same manner as set forth above, an increase of 100 basis points in the libor rate would have increased our annual interest expense, after we calculate the impact of our interest rate swaps, by $23 million . we use interest rate swaps for the purpose of managing our interest expense through the mix of fixed rate and floating rate debt. as of december 31, 2016 , we have entered into the following interest rate swap transaction converting a portion of the interest rate exposure on our term and revolving loans from variable to fixed (in millions): effective date termination date notional amount bank pays variable rate of fis pays fixed rate of january 4, 2016 january 1, 2018 $ 500 one month libor (1) 0.92 % (2) ________________________ (1) 0.77% in effect as of december 31, 2016 . (2) does not include the applicable margin and facility fees paid to lenders on the term and revolving loans as described in note 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. we have designated the interest rate swap as a cash flow hedge for accounting purposes. a portion of the amount included in accumulated other comprehensive earnings is reclassified into interest expense as a yield adjustment as interest payments are made on the term and revolving loans. in accordance with the authoritative guidance for fair value measurements, the inputs used to determine the estimated fair value of our interest rate swap are level 2-type measurements. we considered our own credit risk and the credit risk of the counterparties when determining the fair value of our interest rate swap. in september 2015, the company entered into treasury lock hedges with a total notional amount of $1.0 billion , reducing the risk of changes in the benchmark index component of the 10-year treasury yield. the company designated these derivatives as cash flow hedges. on october 13, 2015, in conjunction with the pricing of the $4.5 billion senior notes, the company terminated these treasury lock contracts for a cash settlement payment of $16 million , which was recorded as a component of other comprehensive earnings and will be reclassified as an adjustment to interest expense over the ten years during which the related interest payments that were hedged will be recognized in income. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. these risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, transaction gains and losses associated with intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in currencies other than a location's functional currency. we manage the exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and the use of foreign currency forward contracts. contracts are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. our exposure to foreign currency exchange risks generally arises from our non-u.s. operations, to the extent they are conducted in local currency. changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect translations of revenues denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. during the years ended december 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , we generated approximately $1,909 million , $1,336 million and $1,229 million , respectively, in revenues denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the major currencies to which our revenues are exposed are the brazilian real, the euro, the british pound sterling and the indian rupee. a 10% move in average exchange rates for these currencies (assuming a simultaneous and immediate 10% change in all of such rates for the relevant period) would have resulted in the following increase or (decrease) in our reported revenues for the years ended december 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 (in millions): currency 2016 2015 2014 pound sterling $ 47 $ 34 $ 31 euro 38 33 30 real 32 29 38 indian rupee 12 10 8 total impact $ 129 $ 106 $ 107 45 table of contents while our results of operations have been impacted by the effects of currency fluctuations, our international operations' revenues and expenses are generally denominated in local currency, which reduces our economic exposure to foreign exchange risk in those jurisdictions. revenues included $100 million and $243 million and net earnings included $10 million , and $31 million , respectively, of unfavorable foreign currency impact during 2016 and 2015 resulting from a stronger u.s. dollar during these years compared to the preceding year. in 2017, we expect continued unfavorable foreign currency impact on our operating income resulting from the continued strengthening of the u.s. dollar vs. other currencies. our foreign exchange risk management policy permits the use of derivative instruments, such as forward contracts and options, to reduce volatility in our results of operations and/or cash flows resulting from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. we do not enter into foreign currency derivative instruments for trading purposes or to engage in speculative activity. we do periodically enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency exposure to intercompany loans. as of december 31, 2016 , the notional amount of these derivatives was approximately $143 million and the fair value was nominal. these derivatives are intended to hedge the foreign exchange risks related to intercompany loans but have not been designated as hedges for accounting purposes. we also use currency forward contracts to manage our exposure to fluctuations in costs caused by variations in indian rupee ("inr") exchange rates. as of december 31, 2016 , the notional amount of these derivatives was approximately $7 million and the fair value was less than $1 million . these inr forward contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. the fair value of these currency forward contracts is determined using currency exchange market rates, obtained from reliable, independent, third party banks, at the balance sheet date. the fair value of forward contracts is subject to changes in currency exchange rates. the company has no ineffectiveness related to its use of currency forward contracts in connection with inr cash flow hedges. in conjunction with entering into the definitive agreement to acquire clear2pay in september 2014, we initiated a foreign currency forward contract to purchase euros and sell u.s. dollars to manage the risk arising from fluctuations in exchange rates until the closing because the purchase price was stated in euros. as this derivative did not qualify for hedge accounting, we recorded a charge of $16 million in other income (expense), net during the third quarter of 2014. this forward contract was settled on october 1, 2014. 46 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors in addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the risks described herein could result in a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. risks related to our business and operations 11 table of contents security breaches or attacks, or our failure to comply with information security laws, or regulations or industry security requirements, could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation and could result in a breach of one or more client contracts. we electronically receive, process, store and transmit sensitive business information of our clients. in addition, we collect personal consumer data, such as names and addresses, social security numbers, driver's license numbers, cardholder data and payment history records. such information is necessary to support our clients' transaction processing and to conduct our check authorization and collection businesses. the uninterrupted operation of our information systems, as well as the confidentiality of the customer/consumer information that resides on such systems, is critical to our successful operation. for that reason, cybersecurity is one of the principal operational risks we face as a provider of services to financial institutions. if we fail to maintain an adequate security infrastructure, adapt to emerging security threats, or implement sufficient security standards and technology to protect against security breaches, the confidentiality of the information we secure could be compromised. unauthorized access to our computer systems or databases could result in the theft or publication of confidential information, the deletion or modification of records, damages from legal actions from clients and/or their customers, otherwise cause interruptions in our operations and damage to our reputation. these risks are greater with increased information transmission over the internet and the increasing level of sophistication posed by cyber criminals. as a provider of services to financial institutions and a provider of card processing services, we are bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information we receive from our clients as apply to the clients themselves. if we fail to comply with these regulations and industry security requirements, we could be exposed to damages from legal actions from clients and/or their customers, governmental proceedings, governmental notice requirements, and the imposition of fines or prohibitions on card processing services. in addition, if more restrictive privacy laws, rules or industry security requirements are adopted in the future on the federal or state level, or by a specific industry body, they could have an adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on business processes. any inability to prevent security or privacy breaches, or the perception that such breaches may occur, could cause our existing clients to lose confidence in our systems and terminate their agreements with us, inhibit our ability to attract new clients, result in increasing regulation, or bring about other adverse consequences from the government agencies that regulate our business. entity mergers or consolidations and business failures in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our business by eliminating some of our existing and potential clients and making us more dependent on a more limited number of clients. there has been and continues to be substantial consolidation activity in the banking and financial services industry. in addition, many financial institutions that experienced negative operating results, including some of our clients, have failed. these consolidations and failures reduce our number of potential clients and may reduce our number of existing clients, which could adversely affect our revenues, even if the events do not reduce the aggregate activities of the consolidated entities. further, if our clients fail and/or merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce use of our services. it is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidations would have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to innovate or adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose clients or our clients could lose customers and have difficulty attracting new clients for our services. the markets for our services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new services and evolving industry standards. our future success will be significantly affected by our ability to enhance our current solutions and develop and introduce new solutions and services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients and their customers. in addition, as more of our revenue and market demand shifts to saas, cloud, bpaas and new disruptive technologies, the need to keep pace with rapid technology changes becomes more acute. these initiatives carry the risks associated with any new solution development effort, including cost overruns, delays in delivery, and performance issues. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing, marketing and selling new solutions that meet these changing demands, that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, and marketing of these solutions, or that our new solutions and their enhancements will adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. any of these developments could have an adverse impact on our future revenues and/or business prospects. 12 table of contents we operate in a competitive business environment and if we are unable to compete effectively our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. the market for our services is intensely competitive. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the solutions and services they offer. some of our competitors have substantial resources. we face direct competition from third parties, and since many of our larger potential clients have historically developed their key applications in-house and therefore view their system requirements from a make-versus-buy perspective, we also often compete against our potential clients' in-house capacities. in addition, the markets in which we compete have recently attracted increasing competition from smaller start-ups with disruptive technologies, which are receiving increasing investments, global banks (and businesses controlled by a combination of global banks) and global internet companies that are introducing competitive products and services into the marketplace, particularly in the payments area. emerging technologies and increased competition may also have the effect of unbundling bank solutions and result in picking off solutions we are currently providing from our legacy systems. international competitors are also now targeting and entering the u.s. market with greater force. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. see "item i. business. competition ." global economic, political and other conditions, including business cycles and consumer confidence, may adversely affect our clients or trends in consumer spending, which may adversely impact the demand for our services and our revenue and profitability. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from transaction processing fees. the global transaction processing industries depend heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. any change in economic factors, including a sustained deterioration in general economic conditions or consumer confidence, particularly in the united states, or increases in interest rates in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer spending, including related consumer debt, further reduce check writing and change credit and debit card usage, and as a result, adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions that we service. when there is a slowdown or downturn in the economy, a drop in stock market levels or trading volumes, or an event that disrupts the financial markets, our business and financial results, particularly with respect to our capital markets businesses, may suffer for a number of reasons. customers may react to worsening conditions by reducing their capital expenditures in general or by specifically reducing their information technology spending. in addition, customers may curtail or discontinue trading operations, delay or cancel information technology projects, or seek to lower their costs by renegotiating vendor contracts. moreover, competitors may respond to market conditions by lowering prices and attempting to lure away our customers to lower cost solutions. any more protective trade policies or actions taken by the u.s. may also result in other countries reducing or making more expensive services permitted to be provided by u.s. based companies. if any of these circumstances remain in effect for an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial results. constraints within global financial markets or international regulatory requirements could constrain our financial institution clients' ability to purchase our services, impacting our future growth and profitability. a significant number of our clients and potential clients may hold sovereign debt of economically struggling nations or be subject to emerging international requirements such as basel iii, which could require changes in their capitalization and hence the amount of their working capital available to purchase our services. these potential constraints could alter the ability of clients or potential clients to purchase our services and thus could have a significant impact on our future growth and profitability. the sales and implementation cycles for many of our software and service offerings can be lengthy and require significant investment from both our clients and fis. if we fail to close sales or if a client chooses not to complete an installation after expending significant time and resources to do so, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. the sales and associated deployment of many of our software or service offerings often involve significant capital commitments by our clients and/or fis. potential clients generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available software and services and require us to expend substantial time, effort, and money educating them prior to sales. further, as part of the sale or deployment of our software and services, clients may also require fis to perform significant related services to complete a proof of concept or custom development to meet their needs. all of the aforementioned activities may expend significant funds and management resources and, ultimately, the client may determine not to close the sale or complete the implementation. if we are unsuccessful in closing sales or if the client decides not to complete an implementation after we 13 table of contents expend significant funds and management resources or we experience delays, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our results may fluctuate from period to period because of the lengthy and unpredictable sales cycle for our software, changes in our mix of licenses and services, activity by competitors, and customer budgeting, operational requirements or renewal cycles. particularly with respect to gfs, our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and be difficult to predict in a particular period due to the timing and magnitude of software license sales and other factors. we offer a number of our software solutions on a license basis, which means that the customer has the right to run the software on its own computers. the customer usually makes a significant up-front payment to license software, which we generally recognize as revenue when the license contract is signed and the software is delivered. the size of the up-front payment often depends on a number of factors that are different for each customer, such as the number of customer locations, users or accounts. the sales cycle for a software license may be lengthy and take unexpected turns. further, our customers' business models are shifting away from paying upfront license fees to paying periodic rental fees for services. thus, it is difficult to predict when software sales will occur or how much revenue they will generate. since there are few incremental costs associated with software sales, our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year due to the timing and magnitude of software sales. our results may also vary as a result of pricing pressures, increased cost of equipment, the evolving and unpredictable markets in which our solutions and services are sold, changes in accounting principles, and competitors' new solutions or services. in addition, there are a number of other factors that could cause our sales and results of operation to fluctuate from period to period, including: customers periodically renew or upgrade their installed base of our solutions, which trigger buying cycles for current or new versions of our solutions and our revenue generally fluctuates with these refresh cycles as a result; the budgeting cycles and purchasing practices of customers, particularly large customers; changes in customer, distributor or reseller requirements or market needs; deferral of orders from customers in anticipation of new solutions or offerings announced by us or our competitors or otherwise anticipated by the market; our ability to successfully expand our business domestically and internationally; and insolvency or credit difficulties confronting our customers, which could adversely affect their ability to purchase or pay for our solutions. failure to obtain new clients or renew client contracts on favorable terms could adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. we may face pricing pressure in obtaining and retaining our clients. larger clients may be able to seek price reductions from us when they renew a contract, when a contract is extended, or when the client's business has significant volume changes. they may also reduce services if they decide to move services in-house. further, our smaller and mid-size clients may also exert pricing pressure, particularly on renewal, due to pricing competition or other economic needs or pressures being experienced by the client. on some occasions, this pricing pressure results in lower revenue from a client than we had anticipated based on our previous agreement with that client. this reduction in revenue could result in an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. further, failure to renew client contracts on favorable terms could have an adverse effect on our business. our contracts with clients generally run for several years and include liquidated damage provisions that provide for early termination fees. terms are generally renegotiated prior to the end of a contract's term. if we are not successful in achieving a high rate of contract renewals on favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. our business and operating results could be adversely affected if we experience business interruptions, errors or failure in connection with our or third-party information technology and communication systems and other software and hardware used in connection with our business, if we experience defects or design errors in the software solutions we offer, or more generally, if the third-party vendors we rely upon are unwilling or unable to provide the services we need to effectively operate our business. many of our services, including our transformation services, are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new technology solutions and services. further, the technology solutions underlying our services have occasionally contained and may in the future contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our 14 table of contents technologies on platforms used by our clients or our clients may cancel a project after we have expended significant effort and resources to complete an installation. finally, our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. defects in our technology solutions, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions, or other difficulties could result in: (i) interruption of business operations; (ii) delay in market acceptance; (iii) additional development and remediation costs; (iv) diversion of technical and other resources; (v) loss of clients; (vi) negative publicity; or (vii) exposure to liability claims. any one or more of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through controls, including system redundancies, security controls, application development and testing controls, and disclaimers and limitation-of-liability provisions in our license and client agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will always be successful in preventing disruption or limiting our liability. further, most of the solutions we offer are very complex software systems that are regularly updated. no matter how careful the design and development, complex software often contains errors and defects when first introduced and when major new updates or enhancements are released. if errors or defects are discovered in current or future solutions, we may not be able to correct them in a timely manner, if at all. in our development of updates and enhancements to our software solutions, we may make a major design error that makes the solution operate incorrectly or less efficiently. the failure of software to properly perform could result in the company and its clients being subjected to losses or liability, including censures, fines, or other sanctions by the applicable regulatory authorities, and we could be liable to parties who are financially harmed by those errors. in addition, such errors could cause the company to lose revenues, lose clients or damage its reputation. in addition, we generally depend on a number of third parties, both in the united states and internationally, to supply elements of our systems, computers, research and market data, connectivity, communication network infrastructure, other equipment and related support and maintenance. we cannot be certain that any of these third parties will be able to continue providing these services to effectively meet our evolving needs. if our vendors, or in certain cases vendors of our customers, fail to meet their obligations, provide poor or untimely service, or we are unable to make alternative arrangements for the provision of these services, we may in turn fail to provide our services or to meet our obligations to our customers, and our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially harmed. the dodd-frank act may result in business changes for our clients that have or could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, or prospects for future growth and overall business . our clients are required to comply with numerous regulations. the dodd-frank act and associated durbin amendment were passed and signed into law in 2010. the dodd-frank act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the regulations governing the financial services industry within the united states. the dodd-frank act established the cfpb and requires this and other federal agencies to implement many new regulations, which have the potential to increase the amount and types of regulation on areas of our business that were not previously regulated. several regulations and rules have or will be written and implemented as directed by the dodd-frank act. these rules and regulations have or will require our clients or potential clients to comply with requirements and could require us to directly comply with regulations. these requirements have or could result in the need for fis to make capital investments to modify our solutions and services to facilitate our clients' and potential clients' compliance, as well as to deploy additional processes or reporting to comply with regulations. further, requirements of the regulations have or could result in changes in our clients' business practices and those of other marketplace participants that may alter the delivery of services to consumers, which have or could impact the demand for our software and services as well as alter the type or volume of transactions that we process on behalf of our clients. as a result, these requirements have or could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. many of our clients are subject to a regulatory environment and to industry standards that may change in a manner that reduces the types or volume of solutions or services we provide, or may reduce the type or number of transactions in which our clients engage, and therefore, reduces our revenues. our clients are subject to a number of government regulations and industry standards with which our services must comply. our clients must ensure that our services and related solutions work within the extensive and evolving regulatory and industry requirements applicable to them. federal, state, foreign or industry authorities could adopt laws, rules or regulations affecting our clients' businesses that could lead to increased operating costs and could reduce the convenience and functionality of our services, possibly resulting in reduced market acceptance. in addition, action by regulatory authorities relating to credit availability, data usage, privacy, or other related regulatory developments could have an adverse effect on our clients and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future 15 table of contents growth and overall business. elimination of regulatory requirements could also adversely affect the sales of our solutions designed to help clients comply with complex regulatory environments. regulations enacted by the cfpb or state regulatory authorities, such as the new york state department of financial services, may require fis to adopt new business practices which may require capital investment and/or incremental expenses which could impact our future operating results. the cfpb regulates financial and non-financial institutions and providers to those institutions. the cfpb continues to establish rules for regulating non-financial institution providers to ensure adequate protection of consumer privacy and to ensure consumers are not impacted by deceptive business practices. the new york department of financial services has enacted new rules that require covered financial institutions to establish and maintain cyber security programs. the impact of these rules and any future rules may require fis to be subject to additional regulation and adopt additional business practices that could require additional capital expenditures or impact our operating results. changes to state money transmission laws and regulations, including changing interpretations and the implementation of new or varying regulatory requirements, may result in the need for additional money transmitter licenses. these changes could result in increased costs of compliance, as well as fines or penalties. our revenues from the sale of services to members of visa, mastercard, american express, discover and other similar organizations are dependent upon our continued certification and sponsorship, and the loss or suspension of certification or sponsorship could adversely affect our business. in order to provide our card processing services, we must be certified (including applicable sponsorship) by visa, mastercard, american express, discover and other similar organizations. these certifications are dependent upon our continued adherence to the standards of the issuing bodies and sponsoring member banks. the member financial institutions, some of which are our competitors, set the standards with which we must comply. if we fail to comply with these standards we could be fined, our certifications could be suspended, or our registration could be terminated. the suspension or termination of our certifications, or any changes in the rules and regulations governing visa, mastercard, american express, discover, or other similar organizations, could result in a reduction in revenue or increased costs of operation, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. changes in card association and debit network fees or products could increase costs or otherwise limit our operations. from time to time, card associations and debit networks increase the interchange fees that they charge. it is possible that competitive pressures will result in our absorption of a portion of such increases in the future, which would increase our operating costs, reduce our profit margin and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. furthermore, the rules and regulations of the various card associations and networks prescribe certain capital requirements. any increase in the capital level required would further limit our use of capital for other purposes. interchange fees and related practices have been receiving significant legal and regulatory scrutiny worldwide. the resulting regulatory changes that could occur from proposed regulations could alter the fees charged by card associations and debit networks worldwide. such changes could have an adverse impact on our business or financial condition due to reductions or changes in types of transactions processed on behalf of our clients. our securities brokerage operations are highly regulated and subject to risks that are not encountered in our other businesses. one of our subsidiaries is an sec registered broker-dealer in the u.s. and others are authorized by the fca to conduct certain regulated business in the u.k. domestic and foreign regulatory and self-regulatory organizations, such as the sec, finra, and the fca can, among other things, fine, censure, issue cease-and-desist orders against, and suspend or expel a broker-dealer or its officers or employees for failure to comply with the many laws and regulations that govern brokerage activities. those laws and regulations derive from a variety of policy considerations and address a wide range of topics, including those designed to protect customers of broker-dealers, and the privacy of their information, and those designed to protect the integrity of the markets, such as laws and regulations requiring broker-dealers to report suspicious activity of customers. sanctions for failure to comply with such laws and regulations may arise out of currently-conducted activities or those conducted in prior periods. our ability to comply with these laws and regulations is largely dependent on our establishment, maintenance, and enforcement of an effective brokerage compliance program. failure to establish, maintain, and enforce the required brokerage compliance procedures, even if unintentional, could subject us to significant losses, lead to disciplinary or other actions, and tarnish our reputation. regulations affecting the brokerage industry may change, which could adversely affect our financial results. 16 table of contents we are exposed to certain risks relating to the execution services provided by our brokerage operations to our customers and counterparties, which include other broker-dealers, active traders, hedge funds, asset managers, and other institutional and non-institutional clients. these risks include, but are not limited to, customers or counterparties failing to pay for or deliver securities, trading errors, the inability or failure to settle trades, and trade execution system failures. as trading in the u.s. securities markets has become more automated, the potential impact of a trading error or a rapid series of errors caused by a computer or human error, or a malicious act has become greater. in our other businesses, we generally can disclaim liability for trading losses that may be caused by our software, but in our brokerage operations, we may not be able to limit our liability for trading losses or failed trades even when we are not at fault. as a result, we may suffer losses that are disproportionately large compared to the relatively modest profit contributions of our brokerage operations. privacy laws and regulations, such as the gdpr, require fis to adopt new business practices and contractual provisions in existing and new contracts which may require transitional and incremental expenses which may impact our future operating results. new privacy laws, such as the gdpr, continue to develop in ways we cannot predict. privacy laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and impose inconsistent or conflicting requirements. complying with varying jurisdictional requirements could increase the costs and complexity of compliance or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business and violations of privacy laws can result in significant penalties and damage to our brand and business. implementation of the gdpr will require changes to certain of our business practices, thereby increasing our costs. failure to comply with the requirements of the gdpr could result in significant penalties and loss of business, among other things. if we fail to comply with applicable regulations or to meet regulatory expectations, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely impacted. the majority of our data processing services for financial institutions are not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. however, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, our data processing operations are examined on a regular basis by various federal and state regulatory authorities and by international regulatory authorities, such as the fca, in certain jurisdictions. if we fail to comply with any applicable regulations or guidelines for operations of a data services provider, we could be subject to regulatory actions or rating changes, may not meet contractual obligations, and may suffer harm to our client relationships or reputation. failure to meet the aforementioned requirements or to adapt to new requirements at the federal, state or international level could inhibit our ability to retain existing clients or obtain new clients, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition to our data processing services described above, we also have business operations that store, process or transmit consumer information or have direct relationships with consumers that are obligated to comply with regulations, including, but not limited to, the federal fair credit reporting act, the federal fair debt collection practices act and applicable privacy requirements. further, our international businesses must comply with applicable laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act. failure to maintain compliance with or adapt to changes in any of the aforementioned requirements could result in fines, penalties or regulatory actions that could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. high profile payment card industry or digital banking security breaches could impact consumer payment behavior patterns in the future and reduce our card payment transaction volumes. we are unable to predict whether or when high profile card payment or digital banking security breaches will occur and if they occur, whether consumers will transact less on their payment cards or reduce their digital banking service. if consumers transact less on cards issued by our clients or reduce digital banking services and we are not able to adapt to offer our clients alternative technologies, it could have a significant adverse impact on our revenue and related earnings. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights or a finding that our patents are invalid could impair our competitive position. our ability to compete depends in some part upon our proprietary solutions and technology. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we 17 table of contents regard as proprietary or challenge the validity of our patents with governmental authorities. policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult. we cannot make any assurances that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of technology or that the agreements entered into for that purpose will be enforceable. effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available online. misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if our applications or services are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we may be required to change our business practices and may also become subject to significant costs and monetary penalties. as our information technology applications and services develop, we are increasingly subject to infringement claims. any claims, whether with or without merit, could: (i) be expensive and time-consuming to defend; (ii) result in an injunction or other equitable relief which could cause us to cease making, licensing or using applications that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; (iii) require us to redesign our applications, if feasible; (iv) divert management's attention and resources; and (v) require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies or pay damages resulting from any infringing use. some of our solutions contain open source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business. we use a limited amount of software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called open source licenses and may continue to use such software in the future. some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software, and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. by the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner. additionally, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by united states or other courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our solutions. in addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. we have established processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening requests from our development organizations for the use of open source, but we cannot be sure that all open source is submitted for approval prior to use in our solutions. in addition, many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. we face liability to our merchant clients if checks that we have guaranteed are dishonored by the check writer's bank. if checks that we have guaranteed are dishonored by the check writers' banks, we must reimburse our merchant clients for the checks' face value and pursue collection from the check writers. in some cases, we recognize a liability to our merchant clients for estimated check returns and a receivable for amounts we estimate we will recover from the check writers, based on historical experience and other relevant factors. the estimated check returns and recovery amounts are subject to the risk that actual amounts returned may exceed our estimates and actual amounts recovered by us may be less than our estimates. changes in economic conditions, the risk characteristics and composition of our clients and other factors could impact our actual and projected amounts. lack of system integrity, fraudulent payments, credit quality, and undetected errors related to funds settlement or the availability of clearing services could result in a financial loss. we settle funds on behalf of financial institutions, other businesses and consumers and receive funds from clients, card issuers, payment networks and consumers on a daily basis for a variety of transaction types. transactions facilitated by us include debit card, credit card, electronic bill payment transactions, banking payments and check clearing that supports consumers, financial institutions and other businesses. these payment activities rely upon the technology infrastructure that facilitates the verification of activity with counterparties, the facilitation of the payment as well as the detection or prevention of fraudulent payments. if our continuity of operations, integrity of processing, or ability to detect or prevent fraudulent payments were compromised, this could result in a financial loss to us. in addition, we rely on various financial institutions to provide ach services in support of funds settlement for certain of our solutions. if we are unable to obtain such ach services in the future, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. in addition, we may issue credit to consumers, financial institutions or other businesses as part of the funds settlement. a default on this credit by a counterparty could result in a financial loss to us. furthermore, if one of our clients for which we facilitate 18 table of contents settlement suffers a fraudulent event due to an error of their controls, we may suffer a financial loss if the client does not have sufficient capital to cover the loss. failure to properly manage or mitigate risks in the operation of our wealth and retirement businesses in the u.s and the u.k could have adverse liability consequences. we have wealth and retirement businesses in the u.s. and u.k. engaged in processing securities transactions on behalf of clients and serving as a custodian. failure to properly manage or mitigate risks in those operations and increased volatility in the financial markets may increase the potential for and magnitude of resulting losses, including those that may arise from human errors or omissions, defects or interruptions in computer or communications systems or breakdowns in processes or in internal controls. human errors or omissions may include failures to comply with applicable laws or corporate policies and procedures, theft, fraud or misappropriation of assets, whether arising from the intentional actions of internal personnel or external third parties. in addition, the u.s.-based business holds charters in the states of georgia and delaware which exposes us to further regulatory compliance requirements of the georgia department of banking and finance and the office of the commissioner of banking in the state of delaware. the u.s. wealth and retirement business is required to hold certain levels of regulatory capital as defined by the state banking regulators in the states in which they hold a bank or trust charter (delaware and georgia). in the u.k., our platform securities and broker dealer businesses are regulated by the fca and are subject to further regulatory capital requirements. we also have registered investment advisor and transfer agent businesses regulated by the sec and subject to further regulatory requirements. our business is subject to the risks of international operations, including movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the international operations of fis represented approximately 26% of our total 2017 revenues, and are largely conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the british pound, brazilian real, euro and indian rupee. our business and financial results could be adversely affected due to a variety of factors, including: changes in a specific country or region's political and cultural climate or economic condition, including change in governmental regime; unexpected or unfavorable changes in foreign laws, regulatory requirements and related interpretations; difficulty of effective enforcement of contractual provisions in local jurisdictions; inadequate intellectual property protection in foreign countries; trade-protection measures, import or export licensing requirements such as export administration regulations promulgated by the u.s. department of commerce and fines, penalties or suspension or revocation of export privileges; trade sanctions imposed by the united states or other governments with jurisdictional authority over our business operations; the effects of applicable and potentially adverse foreign tax law changes; significant adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates; longer accounts receivable cycles; managing a geographically dispersed workforce; and compliance with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, or fcpa, and the office of foreign assets control regulations, particularly in emerging markets. in foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, certain business practices may exist that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and other anti-corruption laws. although our policies and procedures require compliance with these laws and are designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents may take actions in violation of applicable laws or our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation. as we expand our international operations, more of our clients may pay us in foreign currencies. conducting business in currencies other than u.s. dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that can negatively impact our results, period to period, including relative to analyst estimates or guidance. our primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relates to foreign currencies in brazil, europe, including the united kingdom, australia and parts of asia. the u.s. dollar value of our net investments in foreign operations, the periodic conversion of foreign-denominated earnings to the u.s. dollar (our reporting currency), and our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, could be adversely affected in a material manner by movements in foreign currency exchange rates. these risks could cause an adverse effect on the business, financial position and results of operations of the company. 19 table of contents the referendum on the united kingdom's membership in the european union could cause disruption to and create uncertainty surrounding our business. the referendum on the united kingdom's (the u.k.) membership in the european union (the e.u.) (referred to as brexit ), approving the exit of the united kingdom from the european union could cause disruptions to and create uncertainty surrounding our business, including affecting our relationships with our existing and future clients, suppliers and employees, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial results and operations. the u.k. government has commenced negotiations to determine the future terms of the u.k.'s relationship with the e.u., including the terms of trade between the u.k. and the e.u. and other nations. the effects of brexit will depend on any agreements the u.k. makes to retain access to e.u. markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. in addition, because the terms of trade between the u.k. and jurisdictions other than the e.u. may be currently governed by trade agreements between the e.u. and such other jurisdictions, the u.k. may be required to negotiate new terms of trade with such other jurisdictions. these potential measures could disrupt the markets we serve and the tax jurisdictions in which we operate and adversely change tax benefits or liabilities in these or other jurisdictions, and may cause us to lose clients, suppliers, and employees. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the u.k. determines which e.u. laws to replace or replicate. actions to implement brexit may also create global economic uncertainty, which may cause our clients to closely monitor their costs and reduce their spending on our solutions and services. any of these effects of brexit, among others, could materially adversely affect our business, business opportunities, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we have businesses in emerging markets that may experience significant economic volatility. we have operations in emerging markets, primarily in brazil, india, southeast asia, the middle east and africa. these emerging market economies tend to be more volatile than the more established markets we serve in north america and europe, which could add volatility to our future revenues and earnings. failure to attract and retain skilled technical employees or senior management personnel could harm our ability to grow. our future success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled technical personnel. because the development of our solutions and services requires knowledge of computer hardware, operating system software, system management software and application software, our technical personnel must be proficient in a number of disciplines. competition for such technical personnel is intense, and our failure to hire and retain talented personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. our future growth will also require sales and marketing, financial and administrative personnel to develop and support new solutions and services, to enhance and support current solutions and services and to expand operational and financial systems. there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our growth strategies and we may experience constraints that could adversely affect our ability to satisfy client demand in a timely fashion. our ability to maintain compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations and to manage and monitor the risks facing our business relies upon the ability to maintain skilled compliance, security, risk and audit professionals. competition for such skillsets is intense, and our failure to hire and retain talented personnel could have an adverse effect on our internal control environment and impact our operating results. our senior management team has significant experience in the financial services industry and the loss of this leadership could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. further, the loss of this leadership may have an adverse impact on senior management's ability to provide effective oversight and strategic direction for all key functions within the company, which could impact our future business, operating results and financial condition. we are the subject of various legal proceedings that could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. we are involved in various litigation matters, including in some cases class-action and patent infringement litigation. if we are unsuccessful in our defense of litigation matters, we may be forced to pay damages and/or change our business practices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 20 table of contents unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies or unfavorable future tax law changes could adversely affect our tax expense. our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. an unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, and could negatively impact our effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the current and/or future periods. the u.s. recently enacted significant tax reform and certain provisions of the new law could have an adverse impact to us. unfavorable future tax law changes could also result in negative impacts. in addition, tax-law amendments in the united states and other jurisdictions could significantly impact how united states multinational corporations are taxed. although we cannot predict whether or in what form such legislation will pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. a material weakness in our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on us. effectiv e internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to adequately mitigate risk of fraud. if we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and adequately mitigate risk of fraud, our reputation and operating results could be harmed. internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. in addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. a material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. if we are unable to report financial information timely and accurately or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the sec, any one of which could adversely affect our business prospects. risks related to business combinations and ventures we continue to incur substantial expenses related to the sungard acquisition, which was completed on november 30, 2015, and the integration of sungard. we continue to incur substantial expenses in connection with the integration of sungard. we continue to integrate a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems, including information technology, data centers, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing, information security, risk, legal, marketing and human resources, including payroll and employee benefits. while we have attempted to estimate the after-tax integration and restructuring costs and other costs incurred to execute the transaction following completion of the sungard acquisition, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. although we expect that the realization of efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses will offset incremental transaction, merger-related and restructuring costs over time, we cannot give any assurance that this net benefit will be achieved in the near term, or at all. there could be significant liability for us if all or part of the as split-off were determined to be taxable for u.s. federal or state income tax purposes. on march 31, 2014, sungard completed the split-off of its availability services ("as") business to its existing stockholders, including its private equity owners, on a tax-free and pro-rata basis (the as split-off ). at the time sungard received opinions from outside tax counsel to the effect that the as split-off should qualify for tax-free treatment as transactions described in section 355 and related provisions of the internal revenue code, as amended (the code ). in addition, actions taken following the as split-off, including the sungard acquisition and certain 50 percent or greater changes by vote or value of the stock ownership of the new entity conducting the as business, may cause the as split-off to be taxable to fis. in connection with the sungard acquisition, we and sungard received opinions of outside tax counsel to the effect that the sungard acquisition should not cause the as split-off to fail to so qualify. notwithstanding the receipt of tax opinions, the tax-free treatment of the as split-off is not free from doubt, and there is a risk that the internal revenue service (the irs ), a state taxing authority or a court could conclude to the contrary that the separation of the as business from sungard may not qualify as tax-free transactions. an opinion of tax counsel is not binding on the irs, state taxing authorities or any court and as a result there can be no assurance that a tax authority will not challenge the 21 table of contents tax-free treatment of all or part of the as split-off or that, if litigated, a court would not agree with the irs or a state taxing authority. further, these tax opinions rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations, warranties and covenants from sungard, the new entity conducting the as business and from some of sungard's stockholders regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses, share ownership and other matters. if any of the facts, assumptions, representations, warranties and covenants on which the opinions rely is inaccurate or incomplete or not satisfied, the opinions may no longer be valid. moreover, the irs or state taxing authority could determine on audit that the as split-off is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations, warranties or covenants are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with one or more conclusions in the opinions or for other reasons. if the as split-off is determined to be taxable, we and possibly our stockholders could incur significant income tax liabilities. these tax liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. actions taken by sungard availability services capital, inc. or its stockholders could cause the as split-off to fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction, and sungard availability services capital, inc. may be unable to fully indemnify sungard for the resulting significant tax liabilities. pursuant to the tax sharing and disaffiliation agreement ( tax sharing agreement ) that sungard entered into with sungard availability services capital, inc. ( spinco ), spinco is required to indemnify sungard for certain taxes relating to the as split-off that result from (i) any breach of the representations or the covenants made by spinco regarding the preservation of the intended tax-free treatment of the as split-off, (ii) any action or omission that is inconsistent with the representations, statements, warranties and covenants provided to tax counsel in connection with their delivery of tax opinions to sungard with respect to the as split-off, and (iii) any other action or omission that was likely to give rise to such taxes when taken, in each case, by spinco or any of its subsidiaries. conversely, if any such taxes are the result of such a breach or certain other actions or omissions by sungard, sungard would be wholly responsible for such taxes. in addition, if any part of the as split-off fails to qualify for the intended tax-free treatment for reasons other than those for which sungard or spinco would be wholly responsible pursuant to the provisions described above, spinco will be obligated to indemnify sungard for 23% of the liability for taxes imposed in respect of the as split-off and sungard would bear the remainder of such taxes. if spinco is required to indemnify sungard for any of the foregoing reasons, spinco's indemnification liabilities could potentially exceed its net asset value and spinco may be unable to fully reimburse or indemnify sungard for its significant tax liabilities arising from the as split-off as provided by the tax sharing agreement. we have a substantial investment in our brazilian venture and obtain significant revenue through that venture that would be lost and result in significant termination costs if our venture partner were to terminate the agreement, to the extent not replaced by further commercial agreements. brazilian venture revenue attributable to our brazilian venture partner, banco bradesco, was $317 million in 2017. the contract that we have with our brazilian venture partner allows for the termination or partial termination of the contract, which ends september 30, 2020, at any point during the 10-year term if minimum targets are met. minimum targets under the brazilian venture agreement have been met and the parties have begun negotiations to determine their future business relationship. during these negotiations, the brazilian venture agreement remains in effect. depending on the results of these negotiations, our future revenue and earnings growth in brazil could be adversely impacted. for further detail on our brazilian venture see note 17 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. additionally, the brazilian venture employs approximately 11,000 employees in brazil who would have the ability to file labor claims if their employment is terminated. if our brazilian venture partner were to terminate the agreement, we, and they, may be subject to labor claims filed by employees of the brazilian venture. these claims, if realized, could result in a significant cost and impact to our earnings. we have substantial investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of prior acquisitions, and a severe or extended economic downturn could cause these investments to become impaired, requiring write-downs that would reduce our operating income. as of december 31, 2017, goodwill aggregated to $13.7 billion , or 56.0% of total assets, and other indefinite-lived intangible assets aggregated to $48 million , or 0.2% of total assets. current accounting rules require goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets to be assessed for impairment at least annually or whenever changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment. factors that may be considered a change in circumstance include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. the results of our 2017 annual assessment of the recoverability of goodwill indicated that the fair values of the company's reporting units were in excess of the carrying values of those reporting units, and thus no goodwill 22 table of contents impairment existed as of december 31, 2017. likewise, the fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets was also in excess of the carrying value of those assets as of december 31, 2017. however, if worldwide or united states economic conditions decline significantly with negative impacts to bank spending and consumer behavior , or if other business or market changes impact our outlook , the carrying amount of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets may no longer be recoverable and we may be required to record an impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. as of december 31, 2017, intangible assets with finite useful lives aggregated to $3,902 million , or 15.9% of total assets. current accounting rules require intangible assets with finite useful lives to be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. factors that may be considered a change in circumstance include significant under-performance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. we will continue to monitor the fair value of our intangible assets as well as our market capitalization and the impact of any economic downturn on our business to determine if there is an impairment in future periods. risks related to our indebtedness our existing debt levels and future levels under existing facilities and debt service requirements may adversely affect our financial condition or operational flexibility and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. as of december 31, 2017, we had total debt of approximately $8.8 billion . this level of debt or any increase in our debt level could have adverse consequences for our business, financial condition, operating results and operational flexibility, including the following: (i) the debt level may cause us to have difficulty borrowing money in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; (ii) our debt level may limit operational flexibility and our ability to pursue business opportunities and implement certain business strategies; (iii) some of our debt has a variable rate of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates; (iv) we have a higher level of debt than some of our competitors or potential competitors, which may cause a competitive disadvantage and may reduce flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including increased competition and vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions ; (v) there are significant maturities on our debt that we may not be able to repay at maturity or that may be refinanced at higher rates; and (vi) if we fail to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding debt or fail to comply with the financial or other restrictive covenants contained in the indenture governing our senior notes, or our credit facility, an event of default could result that could cause all of our debt to become due and payable. statement regarding forward-looking information the statements contained in this form 10-k or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other statements made by our management that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the u.s. federal securities laws. statements that are not historical facts, including statements about anticipated financial outcomes, including any earnings guidance of the company, business and market conditions, outlook, foreign currency exchange rates, expected dividends and share repurchases, the company's sales pipeline and anticipated profitability and growth, as well as other statements about our expectations, beliefs, intentions, or strategies regarding the future are forward-looking statements. these statements relate to future events and our future results and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. any statements that refer to beliefs, expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances and other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. in many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, or continue, or the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements. the risks and uncertainties that forward-looking statements are subject to include without limitation: the risk that acquired businesses will not be integrated successfully, or that the integration will be more costly or more time-consuming and complex than anticipated; the risk that cost savings and other synergies anticipated to be realized from acquisitions may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; the risk of doing business internationally; 23 table of contents changes in general economic, business and political conditions, including the possibility of intensified international hostilities, acts of terrorism, changes in either or both the united states and international lending, capital and financial markets and currency fluctuations; the effect of legislative initiatives or proposals, statutory changes, governmental or other applicable regulations and/or changes in industry requirements, including privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations; the risks of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in, or new laws or regulations affecting, the banking, retail and financial services industries or due to financial failures or other setbacks suffered by firms in those industries; changes in the growth rates of the markets for our solutions; failures to adapt our solutions to changes in technology or in the marketplace; internal or external security breaches of our systems, including those relating to unauthorized access, theft, corruption or loss of personal information and computer viruses and other malware affecting our software or platforms, and the reactions of customers, card associations, government regulators and others to any such events; the risk that implementation of software (including software updates) for customers or at customer locations may result in the corruption or loss of data or customer information, interruption of business operations, exposure to liability claims or loss of customers; the reaction of current and potential customers to communications from us or regulators regarding information security, risk management, internal audit or other matters; competitive pressures on pricing related to the decreasing number of community banks in the u.s., the development of new disruptive technologies competing with one or more of our solutions, increasing presence of international competitors in the u.s. market and the entry into the market by global banks and global companies with respect to certain competitive solutions, each of which may have the impact of unbundling individual solutions from a comprehensive suite of solutions we provide to many of our customers; the failure to innovate in order to keep up with new emerging technologies could impact our solutions, including the ability to attract new, or retain existing, customers; an operational or natural disaster at one of our major operations centers; and other risks detailed elsewhere in this risk factors section and in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission. other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. these forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. except as required by applicable law or regulation, we do not undertake (and expressly disclaim) any obligation and do not intend to publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you should carefully consider the possibility that actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks market risk we are exposed to market risks primarily from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we periodically use certain derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward contracts, to manage interest rate and foreign currency risk. we do not use derivatives for trading purposes, to generate income or to engage in speculative activity. interest rate risk 46 table of contents in addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by operating activities, we use fixed rate and variable rate debt to finance our operations. we are exposed to interest rate risk on these debt obligations and related interest rate swaps, if any. the senior notes (as described in note 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements) represent substantially all of our fixed-rate long-term debt obligations as of december 31, 2017 . the carrying value of the senior notes was $8,553 million as of december 31, 2017 . the fair value of the senior notes was approximately $8,709 million as of december 31, 2017 . the potential reduction in fair value of the senior notes from a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates would not be material to the overall fair value of the debt. our floating rate long-term debt obligations principally relate to borrowings under the fis credit agreement (as defined in note 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements). an increase of 100 basis points in the libor rate would increase our annual debt service under the fis credit agreement by approximately $2 million (based on principal amounts outstanding as of december 31, 2017 ). we performed the foregoing sensitivity analysis based on the principal amount of our floating rate debt as of december 31, 2017 . this sensitivity analysis is based solely on the principal amount of such debt as of december 31, 2017 , and does not take into account any changes that occurred in the prior 12 months or that may take place in the next 12 months in the amount of our outstanding debt. further, in this sensitivity analysis the change in interest rates is assumed to be applicable for an entire year. for comparison purposes, based on principal amounts of floating rate debt outstanding as of december 31, 2016 , and calculated in the same manner as set forth above, an increase of 100 basis points in the libor rate would have increased our annual interest expense by approximately $1 million . as of december 31, 2017, we had no outstanding interest rate swaps. in september 2015, the company entered into treasury lock hedges with a total notional amount of $1.0 billion , reducing the risk of changes in the benchmark index component of the 10-year treasury yield. the company designated these derivatives as cash flow hedges. on october 13, 2015, in conjunction with the pricing of the $4.5 billion senior notes, the company terminated these treasury lock contracts for a cash settlement payment of $16 million , which was recorded as a component of other comprehensive earnings and will be reclassified as an adjustment to interest expense over the ten years during which the related interest payments that were hedged will be recognized in income. foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. these risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, transaction gains and losses associated with intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in currencies other than a location's functional currency. we manage the exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and the use of foreign currency forward contracts and non-derivative investment hedges. contracts are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. our exposure to foreign currency exchange risks generally arises from our non-u.s. operations, to the extent they are conducted in local currency. changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect translations of revenues denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. during the years ended december 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , we generated approximately $1,830 million , $1,909 million and $1,336 million , respectively, in revenues denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the major currencies to which our revenues are exposed are the brazilian real, the euro, the british pound sterling and the indian rupee. a 10% move in average exchange rates for these currencies (assuming a simultaneous and immediate 10% change in all of such rates for the relevant period) would have resulted in the following increase or (decrease) in our reported revenues for the years ended december 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 (in millions): currency 2017 2016 2015 pound sterling $ 42 $ 47 $ 34 euro 35 38 33 real 39 32 29 indian rupee 14 12 10 total increase or decrease $ 130 $ 129 $ 106 while our results of operations have been impacted by the effects of currency fluctuations, our international operations' revenues and expenses are generally denominated in local currency, which reduces our economic exposure to foreign exchange risk in those jurisdictions. 47 table of contents revenues included $16 million favorable and $100 million unfavorable and net earnings included $2 million favorable and $10 million unfavorable, respectively, of foreign currency impact during 2017 and 2016 resulting from changes in the u.s. dollar during these years compared to the preceding year. in 2018, we expect minimal foreign currency impact on our earnings. our foreign exchange risk management policy permits the use of derivative instruments, such as forward contracts and options, to reduce volatility in our results of operations and/or cash flows resulting from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. we do not enter into foreign currency derivative instruments for trading purposes or to engage in speculative activity. we do periodically enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency exposure to intercompany loans. we did not have any of these derivatives as of december 31, 2017 . the company also utilizes non-derivative net investment hedges in order to reduce the volatility in the income statement caused by the changes in foreign currency exchange rates (see note 11 of the notes to consolidated financial statements). 48 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors in addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the risks described herein could result in a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 11 table of contents risks related to our business and operations security breaches or attacks, or our failure to comply with information security laws or regulations or industry security requirements, could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation and could result in a breach of one or more client contracts. we electronically receive, process, store and transmit sensitive business information of our clients. in addition, we collect personal consumer data, such as names and addresses, social security numbers, driver's license numbers, cardholder data and payment history records. such information is necessary to support our clients' transaction processing and to conduct our check authorization and collection businesses. the uninterrupted operation of our information systems, as well as the confidentiality of the customer/consumer information that resides on such systems, is critical to our successful operation. for that reason, cybersecurity is one of the principal operational risks we face as a provider of services to financial institutions. if we fail to maintain an adequate security infrastructure, adapt to emerging security threats, or implement sufficient security standards and technology to protect against security breaches, the confidentiality of the information we secure could be compromised. unauthorized access to our computer systems or databases could result in the theft or publication of confidential information, the deletion or modification of records, damages from legal actions from clients and/or their customers, or otherwise cause interruptions in our operations and damage to our reputation. these risks are greater with increased information transmission over the internet and the increasing level of sophistication posed by cyber criminals. as a provider of services to financial institutions and a provider of card processing services, we are bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information we receive from our clients as apply to the clients themselves. if we fail to comply with these regulations and industry security requirements, we could be exposed to damages from legal actions from clients and/or their customers, governmental proceedings, governmental notice requirements, and the imposition of fines or prohibitions on card processing services. in addition, if more restrictive privacy laws, rules or industry security requirements are adopted in the future on the federal or state level, or by a specific industry body, they could have an adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on business processes. any inability to prevent security or privacy breaches, or the perception that such breaches may occur, could cause our existing clients to lose confidence in our systems and terminate their agreements with us, inhibit our ability to attract new clients, result in increasing regulation, or bring about other adverse consequences from the government agencies that regulate our business. entity mergers or consolidations and business failures in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our business by eliminating some of our existing and potential clients and making us more dependent on a more limited number of clients. there has been and continues to be substantial consolidation activity in the banking and financial services industry. in addition, certain financial institutions that experienced negative operating results, including some of our clients, have failed. these consolidations and failures reduce our number of potential clients and may reduce our number of existing clients, which could adversely affect our revenues, even if the events do not reduce the aggregate activities of the consolidated entities. further, if our clients fail and/or merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce use of our services. it is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidations would have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to innovate or adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose clients or our clients could lose customers and we could have difficulty attracting new clients for our services. the markets for our services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new services and evolving industry standards. our future success will be significantly affected by our ability to enhance our current solutions and develop and introduce new solutions and services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients and their customers. in addition, as more of our revenue and market demand shifts to software as a service ("saas"), business process as a service ("bpaas"), cloud, and new disruptive technologies, the need to keep pace with rapid technology changes becomes more acute. these initiatives carry the risks associated with any new solution development effort, including cost overruns, delays in delivery, and performance issues. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing, marketing and selling new solutions or enhancements that meet these changing demands, that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, and marketing of these solutions or enhancements, or that our new solutions and enhancements will adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. any of these developments could have an adverse impact on our future revenues and/or business prospects. 12 table of contents we operate in a competitive business environment and if we are unable to compete effectively our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. the market for our services is intensely competitive. our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the solutions and services they offer. some of our competitors have substantial resources. we face direct competition from third parties, and since many of our larger potential clients have historically developed their key applications in-house and therefore view their system requirements from a make-versus-buy perspective, we also often compete against our potential clients' in-house capacities. in addition, the markets in which we compete have recently attracted increasing competition from smaller start-ups with disruptive technologies, which are receiving increasing investments, global banks (and businesses controlled by combinations of global banks) and global internet companies that are introducing competitive products and services into the marketplace, particularly in the payments area. emerging technologies and increased competition may also have the effect of unbundling bank solutions and result in picking off solutions we are currently providing from our legacy systems. international competitors are also now targeting and entering the u.s. market with greater force. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. see "item 1. business, competition." global economic, political and other conditions, including business cycles and consumer confidence, may adversely affect our clients or trends in consumer spending, which may adversely impact the demand for our services and our revenue and profitability. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from transaction processing fees. the global transaction processing industries depend heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. any change in economic factors, including a sustained deterioration in general economic conditions or consumer confidence, particularly in the united states, or increases in interest rates in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer spending, including related consumer debt, further reduce check writing and change credit and debit card usage, and as a result, adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions that we service. when there is a slowdown or downturn in the economy, a drop in stock market levels or trading volumes, or an event that disrupts the financial markets, our business and financial results, particularly with respect to our capital markets businesses, may suffer for a number of reasons. customers may react to worsening conditions by reducing their capital expenditures in general or by specifically reducing their information technology spending. in addition, customers may curtail or discontinue trading operations, delay or cancel information technology projects, or seek to lower their costs by renegotiating vendor contracts. moreover, competitors may respond to market conditions by lowering prices and attempting to lure away our customers to lower cost solutions. any more protective trade policies or actions taken by the u.s. may also result in other countries reducing or making more expensive services permitted to be provided by u.s. based companies. if any of these circumstances remain in effect for an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial results. constraints within global financial markets or international regulatory requirements could constrain our financial institution clients' ability to purchase our services, impacting our future growth and profitability. a significant number of our clients and potential clients may hold sovereign debt of economically struggling nations or be subject to international banking regulatory requirements such as basel iii (and a set of further reforms known as basel iv scheduled to be phased in commencing in january 2022), which may require changes in their capitalization and hence the amount of their working capital available to purchase our services. these potential constraints could alter the ability of clients or potential clients to purchase our services and thus could have a significant impact on our future growth and profitability. the sales and implementation cycles for many of our software and service offerings can be lengthy and require significant investment from both our clients and fis. if we fail to close sales or if a client chooses not to complete an installation after expending significant time and resources to do so, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. the sales and associated deployment of many of our software or service offerings often involve significant capital commitments by our clients and/or fis. potential clients generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available software and services and require us to expend substantial time, effort, and money educating them prior to sales. further, as part of the sale or deployment of our software and services, clients may also require fis to perform significant related services to complete a proof of concept or custom development to meet their needs. all of the aforementioned activities may require the expenditure of significant funds and management resources and, ultimately, the client may determine not to close the sale or 13 table of contents complete the implementation. if we are unsuccessful in closing sales or if the client decides not to complete an implementation after we expend significant funds and management resources or we experience delays, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our results may fluctuate from period to period because of the lengthy and unpredictable sales cycle for our software, changes in our mix of licenses and services, activity by competitors, and customer budgeting, operational requirements or renewal cycles. particularly with respect to our gfs segment, our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and be difficult to predict in a particular period due to the timing and magnitude of software license sales and other factors. we offer a number of our software solutions on a license basis, which means that the customer has the right to run the software on its own or a third party's hardware. we generally recognize license revenue when the license contract is signed, the software is delivered, and the term has begun. the value of the license often depends on a number of customer-specific factors, such as the number of customer locations, users or accounts. the sales cycle for a software license may be lengthy and take unexpected turns. thus, it is difficult to predict when software sales will occur or how much revenue they will generate. because there are few incremental costs associated with software sales, our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year due to the timing and magnitude of software sales. our results may also vary as a result of pricing pressures, increased cost of equipment, the evolving and unpredictable markets in which our solutions and services are sold, changes in accounting principles, and competitors' new solutions or services. in addition, there are a number of other factors that could cause our sales and results of operation to fluctuate from period to period, including the following: customers periodically renew or upgrade their installed base of our solutions, which trigger buying cycles for current or new versions of our solutions and our revenue generally fluctuates with these refresh cycles as a result; the budgeting cycles and purchasing practices of customers, particularly large customers; changes in customer, distributor or reseller requirements or market needs; deferral of orders from customers in anticipation of new solutions or offerings announced by us or our competitors or otherwise anticipated by the market; our ability to successfully expand our business domestically and internationally; and insolvency or credit difficulties confronting our customers, which could adversely affect their ability to purchase or pay for our solutions. failure to obtain new clients or renew client contracts on favorable terms could adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. we may face pricing pressure in obtaining and retaining our clients. larger clients may be able to seek price reductions from us when they renew a contract, when a contract is extended, or when the client's business has significant volume changes. they may also reduce services if they decide to move services in-house. further, our smaller and mid-size clients may also exert pricing pressure, particularly on renewal, due to pricing competition or other economic needs or pressures being experienced by the client. on some occasions, this pricing pressure results in lower revenue from a client than we had anticipated based on our previous agreement with that client. this reduction in revenue could result in an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. further, failure to renew client contracts on favorable terms could have an adverse effect on our business. our contracts with clients generally run for several years and include liquidated damage provisions that provide for early termination fees. terms are generally renegotiated prior to the end of a contract's term. if we are not successful in achieving a high rate of contract renewals on favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. our business and operating results could be adversely affected if we experience business interruptions, errors or failure in connection with our or third-party information technology and communication systems and other software and hardware used in connection with our business, if we experience defects or design errors in the software solutions we offer, or more generally, if the third-party vendors we rely upon are unwilling or unable to provide the services we need to effectively operate our business. many of our services, including our transformation services, are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new technology solutions and services. further, the technology solutions underlying our services have occasionally contained and may in the future contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our 14 table of contents technologies on platforms used by our clients or our clients may cancel a project after we have expended significant effort and resources to complete an installation. finally, our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. defects in our technology solutions, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions, or other difficulties could result in (i) interruption of business operations; (ii) delay in market acceptance; (iii) additional development and remediation costs; (iv) diversion of technical and other resources; (v) loss of clients; (vi) negative publicity; or (vii) exposure to liability claims. any one or more of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through controls, including system redundancies, security controls, application development and testing controls, and disclaimers and limitation-of-liability provisions in our license and client agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will always be successful in preventing disruption or limiting our liability. further, most of the solutions we offer are very complex software systems that are regularly updated. no matter how careful the design and development, complex software often contains errors and defects when first introduced and when major new updates or enhancements are released. if errors or defects are discovered in current or future solutions, we may not be able to correct them in a timely manner, if at all. in our development of updates and enhancements to our software solutions, we may make a major design error that makes the solution operate incorrectly or less efficiently. the failure of software to properly perform could result in the company and its clients being subjected to losses or liability, including censures, fines, or other sanctions by the applicable regulatory authorities, and we could be liable to parties who are financially harmed by those errors. in addition, such errors could cause the company to lose revenues, lose clients or damage its reputation. in addition, we generally depend on a number of third parties, both in the united states and internationally, to supply elements of our systems, computers, research and market data, connectivity, communication network infrastructure, other equipment and related support and maintenance. we cannot be certain that any of these third parties will be able to continue providing these services to effectively meet our evolving needs. if our vendors, or in certain cases vendors of our customers, fail to meet their obligations, provide poor or untimely service, or we are unable to make alternative arrangements for the provision of these services, we may in turn fail to provide our services or to meet our obligations to our customers, and our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially harmed. the dodd-frank act, the cfpb and state regulatory authorities, such as the new york state department of financial services, may result in business changes for certain of our businesses and clients that have or could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, or prospects for future growth and overall business. the dodd-frank act represented a comprehensive overhaul of the regulations governing the financial services industry within the united states. the dodd-frank act established the cfpb and provided the cfpb with rulemaking authority with respect to certain federal consumer protection statutes as well as examination and supervisory authority over consumer reporting agencies, including chexsystems. the cfpb continues to establish rules and regulations for regulating financial and non-financial institutions and providers to those institutions to ensure adequate protection of consumer privacy and to ensure consumers are not impacted by deceptive business practices. these rules and regulations govern our clients or potential clients and also govern certain of our businesses. these regulations have resulted and may further result in the need for fis to make capital investments to modify our solutions and services to facilitate our clients' and potential clients' compliance, as well as to deploy additional processes or reporting to comply with these regulations. in the future, we may be subject to additional expense to ensure continued compliance with applicable laws and regulations and to investigate, defend and/or remedy actual or alleged violations. further, requirements of the regulations have resulted and could further result in changes in our business practices, our clients' business practices and those of other marketplace participants that may alter the delivery of services to consumers, which have impacted or could further impact the demand for our software and services as well as alter the type or volume of transactions that we process on behalf of our clients. as a result, these requirements, or proposed or future requirements, could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. the new york department of financial services has enacted new rules that require covered financial institutions to establish and maintain cybersecurity programs. the impact of these rules and any future rules may require fis to be subject to additional regulation and adopt additional business practices that could require additional capital expenditures or impact our operating results. changes to state money transmission laws and regulations, including changing interpretations and the implementation of new or varying regulatory requirements, may result in the need for additional money transmitter licenses. these changes could result in increased costs of compliance, as well as fines or penalties. 15 table of contents many of our clients are subject to a regulatory environment and to industry standards that may change in a manner that reduces the types or volume of solutions or services we provide, or may reduce the type or number of transactions in which our clients engage, and therefore, reduce our revenues. our clients are subject to a number of government regulations and industry standards with which our services must comply. our clients must ensure that our services and related solutions work within the extensive and evolving regulatory and industry requirements applicable to them. federal, state, foreign or industry authorities could adopt laws, rules or regulations affecting our clients' businesses that could lead to increased operating costs and could reduce the convenience and functionality of our services, possibly resulting in reduced market acceptance. in addition, action by regulatory authorities relating to credit availability, data usage, privacy, or other related regulatory developments could have an adverse effect on our clients and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. elimination of regulatory requirements could also adversely affect the sales of our solutions designed to help clients comply with complex regulatory environments. our revenues from the sale of services to members of visa, mastercard, american express, discover and other similar organizations are dependent upon our continued certification and sponsorship, and the loss or suspension of certification or sponsorship could adversely affect our business. in order to provide our card processing services, we must be certified (including applicable sponsorship) by visa, mastercard, american express, discover and other similar organizations. these certifications are dependent upon our continued adherence to the standards of the issuing bodies and sponsoring member banks. the member financial institutions, some of which are our competitors, set the standards with which we must comply. if we fail to comply with these standards we could be fined, our certifications could be suspended, or our registration could be terminated. the suspension or termination of our certifications, or any changes in the rules and regulations governing visa, mastercard, american express, discover, or other similar organizations, could result in a reduction in revenue or increased costs of operation, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. changes in card association and debit network fees or products could increase costs or otherwise limit our operations. from time to time, card associations and debit networks increase the interchange fees that they charge. it is possible that competitive pressures will result in our absorption of a portion of such increases in the future, which would increase our operating costs, reduce our profit margin and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. furthermore, the rules and regulations of the various card associations and networks prescribe certain capital requirements. any increase in the capital level required would further limit our use of capital for other purposes. interchange fees and related practices have been receiving significant legal and regulatory scrutiny worldwide. the resulting regulatory changes that could occur from proposed regulations could alter the fees charged by card associations and debit networks worldwide. such changes could have an adverse impact on our business or financial condition due to reductions or changes in types of transactions processed on behalf of our clients. our securities brokerage operations are highly regulated and subject to risks that are not encountered in our other businesses. one of our subsidiaries is an sec registered broker-dealer in the u.s. and others are authorized by the fca to conduct certain regulated business in the u.k. domestic and foreign regulatory and self-regulatory organizations, such as the sec, finra, and the fca, can, among other things, fine, censure, issue cease-and-desist orders against, and suspend or expel a broker-dealer or its officers or employees for failure to comply with the many laws and regulations that govern brokerage activities. those laws and regulations derive from a variety of policy considerations and address a wide range of topics, including those designed to protect customers of broker-dealers, and the privacy of their information, and those designed to protect the integrity of the markets, such as laws and regulations requiring broker-dealers to report suspicious activity of customers. sanctions for failure to comply with such laws and regulations may arise out of currently-conducted activities or those conducted in prior periods. our ability to comply with these laws and regulations is largely dependent on our establishment, maintenance, and enforcement of an effective brokerage compliance program. failure to establish, maintain, and enforce the required brokerage compliance procedures, even if unintentional, could subject us to significant losses, lead to disciplinary or other actions, and tarnish our reputation. regulations affecting the brokerage industry may change, which could adversely affect our financial results. we are exposed to certain risks relating to the execution services provided by our brokerage operations to our customers and counterparties, which include other broker-dealers, active traders, hedge funds, asset managers, and other institutional and 16 table of contents non-institutional clients. these risks include, but are not limited to, customers or counterparties failing to pay for or deliver securities, trading errors, the inability or failure to settle trades, and trade execution system failures. as trading in the u.s. securities markets has become more automated, the potential impact of a trading error or a rapid series of errors caused by a computer or human error, or a malicious act has become greater. in our other businesses, we generally can disclaim liability for trading losses that may be caused by our software, but in our brokerage operations, we may not be able to limit our liability for trading losses or failed trades even when we are not at fault. as a result, we may suffer losses that are disproportionately large compared to the relatively modest profit contributions of our brokerage operations. privacy laws and regulations, such as the gdpr, require fis to adopt new business practices and contractual provisions in existing and new contracts which may require transitional and incremental expenses which may impact our future operating results. new privacy laws, such as the gdpr in the eu, continue to develop in ways we cannot predict. privacy laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and impose inconsistent or conflicting requirements. complying with varying jurisdictional requirements could increase the costs and complexity of compliance and associated recordkeeping costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. violations of privacy laws can result in significant penalties and damage to our brand and business. implementation of the gdpr has required changes to certain of our business practices, thereby increasing our costs. we ha ve put into place a thorough compliance program to comply with the known obligations under the gdpr and have performed data protection impact assessments for our businesses that are in scope and have executed data protection agreements with the clients and vendors of those businesses. if certain of our clients and vendors fail to recognize the importance and/or applicability of these requirements and do not respond to our request for such amendments, both parties may be subject to penalties and fines for non-compliance. failure to comply with the requirements of the gdpr could result in significant penalties and loss of business, among other things. new privacy laws in california and brazil are expected to issue clarifying regulations prior to becoming effective in 2020 so we will continue to have uncertainties about what we will be expected to comply with these laws until they are issued, including the costs and efforts of compliance. there are also several additional privacy laws being considered by state legislatures, the federal legislature and countries around the world, so a more substantial compliance effort with varying regimes in different jurisdictions is considered probable in the future, which will increase the costs and complexities of our business. if we fail to comply with applicable regulations or to meet regulatory expectations, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely impacted. the majority of our data processing services for financial institutions are not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. however, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, our data processing operations are examined on a regular basis by various federal and state regulatory authorities and by international regulatory authorities, such as the fca, in certain jurisdictions. if we fail to comply with any applicable regulations or guidelines for operations of a data services provider, we could be subject to regulatory actions or rating changes, may not meet contractual obligations, and may suffer harm to our client relationships or reputation. failure to meet the aforementioned requirements or to adapt to new requirements at the federal, state or international level could inhibit our ability to retain existing clients or obtain new clients, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition to our data processing services described above, we also have business operations that store, process or transmit consumer information or have direct relationships with consumers that are obligated to comply with regulations, including, but not limited to, the federal fair credit reporting act, the federal fair debt collection practices act and applicable privacy requirements. further, our international businesses must comply with applicable laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act. failure to maintain compliance with or adapt to changes in any of the aforementioned requirements could result in fines, penalties or regulatory actions that could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. high profile payment card industry or digital banking security breaches could impact consumer payment behavior patterns in the future and reduce our card payment transaction volumes. we are unable to predict whether or when high profile card payment or digital banking security breaches will occur and if they occur, whether consumers will transact less on their payment cards or reduce their digital banking service. if consumers 17 table of contents transact less on cards issued by our clients or reduce digital banking services and we are not able to adapt to offer our clients alternative technologies, it could have a significant adverse impact on our revenue and related earnings. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights or a finding that our patents are invalid could impair our competitive position. our ability to compete depends in some part upon our proprietary solutions and technology. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary or challenge the validity of our patents with governmental authorities. policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult. we cannot make any assurances that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of technology or that the agreements entered into for that purpose will be enforceable. effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available online. misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. if our applications or services are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we may be required to change our business practices and may also become subject to significant costs and monetary penalties. as our information technology applications and services develop, we are increasingly subject to infringement claims. any claims, whether with or without merit, could (i) be expensive and time-consuming to defend; (ii) result in an injunction or other equitable relief which could cause us to cease making, licensing or using applications that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; (iii) require us to redesign our applications, if feasible; (iv) divert management's attention and resources; and (v) require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies or pay damages resulting from any infringing use. some of our solutions contain "open source" software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business. we use a limited amount of software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called "open source" licenses and may continue to use such software in the future. some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software, and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. by the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner. additionally, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by united states or other courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our solutions. in addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. we have established processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening requests from our development organizations for the use of open source, but we cannot be sure that all open source is submitted for approval prior to use in our solutions. in addition, many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. lack of system integrity, fraudulent payments, credit quality, and undetected errors related to funds settlement or the availability of clearing services could result in a financial loss. we settle funds on behalf of financial institutions, other businesses and consumers and receive funds from clients, card issuers, payment networks and consumers on a daily basis for a variety of transaction types. transactions facilitated by us include debit card, credit card, electronic bill payment transactions, banking payments and check clearing that supports consumers, financial institutions and other businesses. these payment activities rely upon the technology infrastructure that facilitates the verification of activity with counterparties, the facilitation of the payment as well as the detection or prevention of fraudulent payments. if our continuity of operations, integrity of processing, or ability to detect or prevent fraudulent payments were compromised, this could result in a financial loss to us. in addition, we rely on various financial institutions to provide ach services in support of funds settlement for certain of our solutions. if we are unable to obtain such ach services in the future, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. in addition, we may issue credit to consumers, financial institutions or other businesses as part of the funds settlement. a default on this credit by a counterparty could result in a financial loss to us. furthermore, if one of our clients for which we facilitate settlement suffers a fraudulent event due to an error of their controls, we may suffer a financial loss if the client does not have sufficient capital to cover the loss. 18 table of contents the referendum on the united kingdom's membership in the european union could cause disruption to and create uncertainty surrounding our business. the referendum on the united kingdom's membership in the european union (referred to as "brexit"), approving the exit of the united kingdom from the european union could cause disruptions to and create uncertainty surrounding our business, including affecting our relationships with our existing and future clients, suppliers and employees, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial results and operations. the effects of brexit will depend on the agreements, if any, the u.k. makes with the eu to retain access to eu markets at the time brexit takes effect (march 29, 2019, if not suspended/delayed), during a transitional period or more permanently. in addition, because the terms of trade between the u.k. and jurisdictions other than the eu may be currently governed by trade agreements between the eu and such other jurisdictions, the u.k. may be required to negotiate new terms of trade with such other jurisdictions. these potential measures could disrupt the markets we serve and the tax jurisdictions in which we operate and adversely change tax benefits or liabilities in these or other jurisdictions, and may cause us to lose clients, suppliers, and employees. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the u.k. determines which eu laws to replace or replicate. actions to implement brexit may also create global economic uncertainty, which may cause our clients to closely monitor their costs and reduce their spending on our solutions and services. any of these effects of brexit, among others, could materially adversely affect our business, business opportunities, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. failure to properly manage or mitigate risks in the operation of our wealth and retirement businesses in the u.s and the u.k could have adverse liability consequences. we have wealth and retirement businesses in the u.s. and u.k. engaged in processing securities transactions on behalf of clients and serving as a custodian. failure to properly manage or mitigate risks in those operations and increased volatility in the financial markets may increase the potential for and magnitude of resulting losses, including those that may arise from human errors or omissions, defects or interruptions in computer or communications systems or breakdowns in processes or in internal controls. human errors or omissions may include failures to comply with applicable laws or corporate policies and procedures, theft, fraud or misappropriation of assets, whether arising from the intentional actions of internal personnel or external third parties. in addition, the u.s.-based business holds charters in the states of georgia and delaware which exposes us to further regulatory compliance requirements of the georgia department of banking and finance and the office of the commissioner of banking in the state of delaware. the u.s. wealth and retirement business is required to hold certain levels of regulatory capital as defined by the state banking regulators in the states in which it holds a bank or trust charter (delaware and georgia). in the u.k., our platform securities and broker-dealer businesses are regulated by the fca and are subject to further regulatory capital requireme nts. one consequence of brexit may be that the loss of the ability to passport regulated business from the u.k. to the eu may result in our having to add operations of the business in a country in the eu that may subject us to further regulatory requirements and costs in that country. our business is subject to the risks of international operations, including movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the international operations of fis represented approximately 26% of our total 2018 revenues and are largely conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the british pound, brazilian real, euro and indian rupee. our business and financial results could be adversely affected due to a variety of factors, including the following: changes in a specific country or region's political and cultural climate or economic condition, including change in governmental regime; unexpected or unfavorable changes in foreign laws, regulatory requirements and related interpretations; difficulty of effective enforcement of contractual provisions in local jurisdictions; inadequate intellectual property protection in foreign countries; trade-protection measures, import or export licensing requirements such as export administration regulations promulgated by the u.s. department of commerce and fines, penalties or suspension or revocation of export privileges; trade sanctions imposed by the u.s. or other governments with jurisdictional authority over our business operations; the effects of applicable and potentially adverse foreign tax law changes; significant adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates; longer accounts receivable cycles; 19 table of contents managing a geographically dispersed workforce; trade treaties, tariffs or agreements that could adversely affect our ability to do business in affected countries; and compliance with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, or fcpa, and the office of foreign assets control regulations, particularly in emerging markets. in foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, certain business practices may exist that are prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and other anti-corruption laws. although our policies and procedures require compliance with these laws and are designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents may take actions in violation of applicable laws or our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation. as we expand our international operations, more of our clients may pay us in foreign currencies. conducting business in currencies other than u.s. dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that can negatively impact our results, period to period, including relative to analyst estimates or guidance. our primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relates to foreign currencies in brazil, europe, including the united kingdom, and parts of asia. the u.s. dollar value of our net investments in foreign operations, the periodic conversion of foreign-denominated earnings to the u.s. dollar (our reporting currency), and our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, could be adversely affected in a material manner by movements in foreign currency exchange rates. these risks could cause an adverse effect on the business, financial position and results of operations of the company. we have businesses in emerging markets that may experience significant economic volatility. we have operations in emerging markets, primarily in brazil, india, southeast asia, the middle east and africa. these emerging market economies tend to be more volatile than the more established markets we serve in north america and europe, which could add volatility to our future revenues and earnings. failure to attract and retain skilled technical employees or senior management personnel could harm our ability to grow. our future success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled technical personnel. because the development of our solutions and services requires knowledge of computer hardware, operating system software, system management software and application software, our technical personnel must be proficient in a number of disciplines. competition for such technical personnel is intense, and our failure to hire and retain talented personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. our future growth will also require sales and marketing, financial and administrative personnel to develop and support new solutions and services, to enhance and support current solutions and services and to expand operational and financial systems. there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our growth strategies and we may experience constraints that could adversely affect our ability to satisfy client demand in a timely fashion. our ability to maintain compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations and to manage and monitor the risks facing our business relies upon the ability to maintain skilled compliance, security, risk and audit professionals. competition for such skillsets is intense, and our failure to hire and retain talented personnel could have an adverse effect on our internal control environment and impact our operating results. our senior management team has significant experience in the financial services industry and the loss of this leadership could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. further, the loss of this leadership may have an adverse impact on senior management's ability to provide effective oversight and strategic direction for all key functions within the company, which could impact our future business, operating results and financial condition. we are the subject of various legal proceedings that could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. we are involved in various litigation matters, including in some instances class-action cases and patent infringement litigation. if we are unsuccessful in our defense of litigation matters, we may be forced to pay damages and/or change our business practices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 20 table of contents unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies or unfavorable future tax law changes could adversely affect our tax expense. our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. an unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense and could negatively impact our effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the current and/or future periods. the u.s. enacted significant tax reform in 2017 and certain provisions of the new law could have an adverse impact to us. unfavorable future tax law changes could also result in negative impacts. in addition, tax-law amendments in the united states and other jurisdictions could significantly impact how united states multinational corporations are taxed. although we cannot predict whether or in what form such legislation will pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. a material weakness in our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on us. effectiv e internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to adequately mitigate risk of fraud. if we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and adequately mitigate risk of fraud, our reputation and operating results could be harmed. internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. in addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. a material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. if we are unable to report financial information timely and accurately or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could be subject to, among other things, regulatory or enforcement actions by the sec, any one of which could adversely affect our business prospects. risks related to business combinations and ventures strategic transactions, including acquisitions and divestitures, involve significant risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. strategic acquisitions and divestitures we have made in the past and may make in the future present significant risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. these risks include the following: difficulty in evaluating potential acquisitions, including the risk that our due diligence does not identify or fully assess valuation issues, potential liabilities or other acquisition risks; difficulty and expense in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations, including combining product and service offerings, and in entering into new markets in which we are not experienced, in an efficient and cost-effective manner while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures, and the risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other problems associated with integration; difficulty and expense in consolidating and rationalizing it infrastructure and integrating acquired software; challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from acquisitions; risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the strategic acquisitions and divestitures do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; risk that acquired systems expose us to cybersecurity and other data security risks; costs to reach appropriate standards to protect against cybersecurity and other data security risks or timeline to achieve such standards may exceed those estimated in diligence; risk that acquired companies are subject to new regulatory regimes or oversight where we have limited experience that may result in additional compliance costs and potential regulatory penalties; risk that we assume or retain, or that companies we have acquired have assumed or retained or otherwise become subject to, significant liabilities that exceed the limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the financial resources of any indemnifying parties; risk that indemnification related to businesses divested or spun-off that we may be required to provide or otherwise bear may be significant and could negatively impact our business; 21 table of contents risk of exposure to potential liabilities arising out of applicable state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal distribution requirements from spin-offs in which we or companies we have acquired were involved; risk that we may be responsible for u.s. federal income tax liabilities related to acquisitions or divestitures; risk that we are not able to complete strategic divestitures on satisfactory terms and conditions, including non-competition arrangements applicable to certain of our business lines, or within expected time frames; potential loss of key employees or customers of the businesses acquired or to be divested; and risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our existing operations. the future results of our brazilian operations may not meet our financial goals following the unwinding of the brazilian venture. on december 31, 2018, we closed a transaction with banco bradesco to unwind the brazilian venture. under this agreement, the brazilian venture spun-off certain assets of the business that also provide services to non-bradesco clients to a new wholly-owned fis subsidiary. the subsidiary entered into a long-term commercial agreement to provide current and new services to banco bradesco effective january 1, 2019 that include software licensing, maintenance, application management, card portfolio migration, business process outsourcing, fraud management and professional services. as a result of the transaction, banco bradesco owns 100% of the entity that previously housed the brazilian venture and its remaining assets that relate to card processing for banco bradesco, which banco bradesco will perform internally. the transaction is expected to result in an annualized reduction in fis' reported revenue of approximately $225 million. while fis expects the net earnings from non-bradesco customers and the current and new services provided to bradesco by fis to largely replace the net earnings lost from the unwinding of the brazilian venture, no assurance can be made in this regard, and fis may fail to meet its financial goals to grow the business following the closing of the transaction. further, it is possible that existing non-bradesco clients may reduce the amount of services we perform for them following the unwinding of the brazilian venture. in addition, the costs of operating in brazil on a stand-alone basis could be higher than we anticipate. for further detail on our brazilian venture see note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. there could be significant liability for us if all or part of the as split-off were determined to be taxable for u.s. federal or state income tax purposes. on march 31, 2014, sungard completed the split-off of its availability services ("as") business to its existing stockholders, including its private equity owners, on a tax-free and pro-rata basis (the as split-off ). at the time sungard received opinions from outside tax counsel to the effect that the as split-off should qualify for tax-free treatment as transactions described in section 355 and related provisions of the internal revenue code, as amended (the code ). in addition, actions taken following the as split-off, including the sungard acquisition and certain 50 percent or greater changes by vote or value of the stock ownership of the new entity conducting the as business, may cause the as split-off to be taxable to fis. in connection with the sungard acquisition, we and sungard received opinions of outside tax counsel to the effect that the sungard acquisition should not cause the as split-off to fail to so qualify. notwithstanding the receipt of tax opinions, the tax-free treatment of the as split-off is not free from doubt, and there is a risk that the internal revenue service (the "irs"), a state taxing authority or a court could conclude to the contrary that the separation of the as business from sungard may not qualify as tax-free transactions. an opinion of tax counsel is not binding on the irs, state taxing authorities or any court and as a result there can be no assurance that a tax authority will not challenge the tax-free treatment of all or part of the as split-off or that, if litigated, a court would not agree with the irs or a state taxing authority. further, these tax opinions rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations, warranties and covenants from sungard, the new entity conducting the as business and from some of sungard's stockholders regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses, share ownership and other matters. if any of the facts, assumptions, representations, warranties and covenants on which the opinions rely is inaccurate or incomplete or not satisfied, the opinions may no longer be valid. moreover, the irs or state taxing authority could determine on audit that the as split-off is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations, warranties or covenants are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with one or more conclusions in the opinions or for other reasons. if the as split-off is determined to be taxable, we and possibly our stockholders could incur significant income tax liabilities. these tax liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 22 table of contents actions taken by sungard availability services capital, inc. or its stockholders could cause the as split-off to fail to qualify as a tax-free transaction, and sungard availability services capital, inc. may be unable to fully indemnify sungard for the resulting significant tax liabilities. pursuant to the tax sharing and disaffiliation agreement ("tax sharing agreement") that sungard entered into with sungard availability services capital, inc. ("spinco"), spinco is required to indemnify sungard for certain taxes relating to the as split-off that result from (i) any breach of the representations or the covenants made by spinco regarding the preservation of the intended tax-free treatment of the as split-off, (ii) any action or omission that is inconsistent with the representations, statements, warranties and covenants provided to tax counsel in connection with their delivery of tax opinions to sungard with respect to the as split-off, and (iii) any other action or omission that was likely to give rise to such taxes when taken, in each case, by spinco or any of its subsidiaries. conversely, if any such taxes are the result of such a breach or certain other actions or omissions by sungard, sungard would be wholly responsible for such taxes. in addition, if any part of the as split-off fails to qualify for the intended tax-free treatment for reasons other than those for which sungard or spinco would be wholly responsible pursuant to the provisions described above, spinco will be obligated to indemnify sungard for 23% of the liability for taxes imposed in respect of the as split-off and sungard would bear the remainder of such taxes. if spinco is required to indemnify sungard for any of the foregoing reasons, spinco's indemnification liabilities could potentially exceed its net asset value and spinco may be unable to fully reimburse or indemnify sungard for its significant tax liabilities arising from the as split-off as provided by the tax sharing agreement. we have substantial investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of prior acquisitions, and a severe or extended economic downturn could cause these investments to become impaired, requiring write-downs that would reduce our operating income. as of december 31, 2018 , goodwill aggregated to $13.5 billion , or 57.0% of total assets, and other indefinite-lived intangible assets aggregated to $43 million , or 0.2% of total assets. current accounting rules require goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets to be assessed for impairment at least annually or whenever changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment. factors that may be considered a change in circumstance include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. the results of our 2018 annual assessment of the recoverability of goodwill indicated that the fair values of the company's reporting units were in excess of the carrying values of those reporting units, and thus no goodwill impairment existed as of december 31, 2018. likewise, the fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets was also in excess of the carrying value of those assets as of december 31, 2018. however, if worldwide or united states economic conditions decline significantly with negative impacts to bank spending and consumer behavior , or if other business or market changes impact our outlook , the carrying amount of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets may no longer be recoverable and we may be required to record an impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. as of december 31, 2018 , intangible assets with finite useful lives aggregated to $3,089 million , or 13.0% of total assets. current accounting rules require intangible assets with finite useful lives to be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. factors that may be considered a change in circumstance include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. we will continue to monitor the fair value of our intangible assets as well as our market capitalization and the impact of any economic downturn on our business to determine if there is an impairment in future periods. risks related to our indebtedness our existing debt levels and future levels under existing facilities and debt service requirements may adversely affect our financial condition or operational flexibility and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. as of december 31, 2018 , we had total debt of approximately $9.0 billion . this level of debt or any increase in our debt level could have adverse consequences for our business, financial condition, operating results and operational flexibility, including the following: (i) the debt level may cause us to have difficulty borrowing money in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; (ii) our debt level may limit operational flexibility and our ability to pursue business opportunities and implement certain business strategies; (iii) some of our debt has a variable rate of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates; (iv) we have a higher level of debt than some of our competitors or potential 23 table of contents competitors, which may cause a competitive disadvantage and may reduce flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including increased competition and vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions ; (v) there are significant maturities on our debt that we may not be able to repay at maturity or that may be refinanced at higher rates; and (vi) if we fail to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding debt or fail to comply with the financial or other restrictive covenants contained in the indenture governing our senior notes, or our credit facility, an event of default could result that could cause all of our debt to become due and payable. we may be adversely affected by changes in libor reporting practices or the method in which libor is determined. as of december 31, 2018 , we had outstanding approximately $208 million of variable debt that was indexed to the london interbank offered rate ("libor"). on july 27, 2017, the financial conduct authority (the fca ) announced its intention to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit rates for calibration of libor to the administrator of libor after 2021. it is not possible to predict the further effect of the rules or policies of the fca, any changes in the methods by which libor is determined, or any other reforms to libor that may be enacted in the united kingdom, the european union or elsewhere. any such developments may cause libor to perform differently than in the past, or cease to exist. in addition, any other legal or regulatory changes made by the fca, ice benchmark administration limited, the european money markets institute (formerly euribor-ebf), the european commission or any other successor governance or oversight body, or future changes adopted by such body, in the method by which libor is determined or the transition from libor to a successor benchmark rate may result in, among other things, a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in libor, a delay in the publication of libor, and changes in the rules or methodologies in libor, which may discourage market participants from continuing to administer or to participate in libor's determination, and, in certain situations, could result in libor no longer being determined and published. if a published u.s. dollar libor rate is unavailable after 2021, the interest rates on our debt which is indexed to libor will be determined using various alternative methods, any of which may result in interest obligations which are more than or do not otherwise correlate over time with the payments that would have been made on such debt if u.s. dollar libor was available in its current form. further, the same costs and risks that may lead to the discontinuation or unavailability of u.s. dollar libor may make one or more of the alternative methods impossible or impracticable to determine. any of these proposals or consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financing costs. rising interest rates could increase our borrowing costs our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates to our short-term commercial paper borrowings, revolving credit facility and interest rate derivatives. in the future we may have additional borrowings under existing or new variable-rate debt. increases in interest rates on variable-rate debt would increase our interest expense. a rising interest rate environment could increase the cost of refinancing existing debt and incurring new debt, which could have an adverse effect on our financing costs. credit ratings, if lowered below investment grade, could adversely affect our cost of funds and liquidity the company maintains investment grade credit ratings from the major u.s. rating agencies on its senior unsecured debt (s&amp;p bbb, moody's baa2, fitch bbb), as well as its commercial paper program (s&amp;p a-2, moody's p-2, fitch f2). failure to maintain investment grade rating levels could adversely affect the company's cost of funds and liquidity and access to certain capital markets, but would not have an adverse effect on the company's ability to access its existing revolving credit facility. please note that a security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, that it may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization, and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. statement regarding forward-looking information the statements contained in this form 10-k or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other statements made by our management that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the u.s. federal securities laws. statements that are not historical facts, including statements about anticipated financial outcomes, including any earnings guidance of the company, business and market conditions, outlook, foreign currency exchange rates, expected dividends and share repurchases, the company's sales pipeline and anticipated profitability and growth, as well as other statements about our expectations, beliefs, intentions, or strategies regarding the future are forward-looking statements. these statements relate to future events and our future results and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. any statements that refer to beliefs, expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances and other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. in many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by 24 table of contents terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, or continue, or the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements. the risks and uncertainties that forward-looking statements are subject to include the following without limitation: the risk that acquired businesses will not be integrated successfully, or that the integration will be more costly or more time-consuming and complex than anticipated; the risk that cost savings and other synergies anticipated to be realized from acquisitions may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; the risk of doing business internationally; changes in general economic, business and political conditions, including the possibility of intensified international hostilities, acts of terrorism, changes in either or both the united states and international lending, capital and financial markets and currency fluctuations; the effect of legislative initiatives or proposals, statutory changes, governmental or other applicable regulations and/or changes in industry requirements, including privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations; the risks of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in, or new laws or regulations affecting, the banking, retail and financial services industries or due to financial failures or other setbacks suffered by firms in those industries; changes in the growth rates of the markets for our solutions; failures to adapt our solutions to changes in technology or in the marketplace; internal or external security breaches of our systems, including those relating to unauthorized access, theft, corruption or loss of personal information and computer viruses and other malware affecting our software or platforms, and the reactions of customers, card associations, government regulators and others to any such events; the risk that implementation of software (including software updates) for customers or at customer locations or employee error in monitoring our software and platforms may result in the corruption or loss of data or customer information, interruption of business operations, outages, exposure to liability claims or loss of customers; the reaction of current and potential customers to communications from us or regulators regarding information security, risk management, internal audit or other matters; competitive pressures on pricing related to the decreasing number of community banks in the u.s., the development of new disruptive technologies competing with one or more of our solutions, increasing presence of international competitors in the u.s. market and the entry into the market by global banks and global companies with respect to certain competitive solutions, each of which may have the impact of unbundling individual solutions from a comprehensive suite of solutions we provide to many of our customers; the failure to innovate in order to keep up with new emerging technologies, which could impact our solutions and our ability to attract new, or retain existing, customers; the failure to meet financial goals to grow the business in brazil after the unwinding of the brazilian venture; the risks of reduction in revenue from the loss of existing and/or potential customers in brazil after the unwinding of the brazilian venture; an operational or natural disaster at one of our major operations centers; and other risks detailed elsewhere in this risk factors section and in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission. other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. these forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. except as required by applicable law or regulation, we do not undertake (and expressly disclaim) any obligation and do not intend to publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you should carefully consider the possibility that actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks market risk we are exposed to market risks primarily from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we periodically use certain derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward contracts, to manage interest rate and foreign currency risk. we do not use derivatives for trading purposes, to generate income or to engage in speculative activity. interest rate risk in addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by operating activities, we use fixed-rate and variable-rate debt to finance our operations. we are exposed to interest rate risk on these debt obligations and related interest rate swaps. the senior notes (as described in note 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements) represent the majority of our fixed-rate long-term debt obligations as of december 31, 2018 . the carrying value excluding unamortized discounts of the senior notes was $8,476 million as of december 31, 2018 . the fair value of the senior notes was approximately $8,336 million as of december 31, 2018 . the potential reduction in fair value of the senior notes from a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates would not be material to the overall fair value of the debt. our floating rate risk principally relates to borrowings under our commercial paper program and revolving credit facility (as defined in note 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements) and an interest swap on our fixed-rate long-term debt. at december 31, 2018 , our weighted-average cost of debt was 3.3% with a weighted-average maturity of 7.5 years; 89% of our debt was fixed-rate and the remaining 11% of our debt was floating rate. a 100 basis point increase in the weighted-average interest rate on our floating rate debt would have increased our 2018 interest expense by $10 million . we performed the foregoing sensitivity analysis based solely on the principal amount of our floating rate debt as of december 31, 2018 . this 47 table of contents sensitivity analysis does not take into account any changes that occurred in the prior 12 months or that may take place in the next 12 months in the amount of our outstanding debt. further, this sensitivity analysis assumes the change in interest rates is applicable for an entire year. for comparison purposes, based on principal amounts of floating rate debt outstanding as of december 31, 2017 , and calculated in the same manner as set forth above, an increase of 100 basis points in the weighted-average interest rate would have increased our annual interest expense by approximately $2 million . as of december 31, 2018 , we entered into the following interest rate swap transaction converting the interest rate exposure on our senior euro notes due july 2024 from fixed to variable (in millions): bank pays fis pays effective date maturity date notional fixed rate of variable rate of december 21, 2018 july 15, 2024 500 1.100 % 3-month euribor + .878% (1) (1) 0.507% in effect as of december 31, 2018 . we designated the interest rate swap as a fair value hedge for accounting purposes as described in note 11 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. a 100 basis point increase in the 3-month euribor rate would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $6 million . foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. these risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, transaction gains and losses associated with intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in currencies other than a location's functional currency. we manage the exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and the use of foreign currency forward contracts and non-derivative and derivative investment hedges. contracts are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. our exposure to foreign currency exchange risks generally arises from our non-u.s. operations, to the extent they are conducted in local currency. changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect translations of revenue denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. during the years ended december 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , we generated approximately $1,542 million , $1,821 million and $1,908 million , respectively, in revenue denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the major currencies to which our revenues are exposed are the brazilian real, the euro, the british pound sterling and the indian rupee. a 10% move in average exchange rates for these currencies (assuming a simultaneous and immediate 10% change in all of such rates for the relevant period) would have resulted in the following increase or decrease in our reported revenue for the years ended december 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 (in millions): currency 2018 2017 2016 pound sterling $ 34 $ 41 $ 44 euro 30 33 38 real 38 39 34 rupee 13 14 12 total increase or decrease $ 115 $ 127 $ 128 while our results of operations have been impacted by the effects of currency fluctuations, our international operations' revenue and expenses are generally denominated in local currency, which reduces our economic exposure to foreign exchange risk in those jurisdictions. revenue included $40 million of unfavorable and $16 million of favorable foreign currency impact during 2018 and 2017 , respectively, resulting from changes in the u.s. dollar. net earnings attributable to fis common stockholders included $12 million of unfavorable and $2 million of favorable foreign currency impact during 2018 and 2017 , respectively, resulting from changes in the u.s. dollar. for the full year of 2019, we anticipate an approximate $45 million adverse impact to revenue due to foreign currency translation, although the actual amount of impact is uncertain due to the many factors that affect exchange rates. 48 table of contents our foreign exchange risk management policy permits the use of derivative instruments, such as forward contracts and options, to reduce volatility in our results of operations and/or cash flows resulting from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. we do not enter into foreign currency derivative instruments for trading purposes or to engage in speculative activity. we do periodically enter into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to hedge foreign currency exposure to intercompany loans and other balance sheet items. we did not have any significant forward contracts as of december 31, 2018 or 2017. the company also utilizes organic foreign currency denominated debt and cross-currency interest rate swaps designated as net investment hedges in order to reduce the volatility of the net investment value of certain of its euro and pound sterling functional subsidiaries (see note 11 of the notes to consolidated financial statements). 49 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors in addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the risks described herein could result in a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. risks related to our business and operations security breaches or attacks, or our failure to comply with information security laws or regulations or industry security requirements, could harm our business by disrupting delivery of services and damaging the reputation of fis and could result in a breach of one or more client contracts. fis electronically receives, processes, stores and transmits sensitive business information of its clients. in addition, fis collects personal consumer data, such as names and addresses, social security numbers, driver's license numbers, cardholder data and payment history records. such information is necessary to support our clients' transaction processing and to conduct our check authorization and collection businesses. the uninterrupted operation of information systems, as well as the confidentiality of the customer/consumer information that resides on such systems, is critical to the successful operation of fis. for that reason, cybersecurity is one of the principal operational risks fis faces as a provider of services to financial institutions. if fis fails to maintain an adequate security infrastructure, adapt to emerging security threats, or implement 12 table of contents sufficient security standards and technology to protect against security breaches, the confidentiality of the information fis secures could be compromised. unauthorized access to the computer systems or databases of fis could result in the theft or publication of confidential information, the deletion or modification of records, damages from legal actions from clients and/or their customers, or otherwise cause interruptions in fis' operations and damage to its reputation. these risks are greater with increased information transmission over the internet, the increasing level of sophistication posed by cyber criminals, nation state-sponsored cyber attacks and the integration of fis systems with those of acquired companies such as worldpay. as a provider of services to financial institutions and a provider of card processing services, fis is bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information fis receives from clients as apply to the clients themselves. if fis fails to comply with these regulations and industry security requirements, it could be exposed to damages from legal actions from clients and/or their customers, governmental proceedings, governmental notice requirements, and the imposition of significant fines or prohibitions on card processing services. in addition, if more restrictive privacy laws, rules or industry security requirements are adopted in the future on the federal or state level, or by a specific industry body, they could have an adverse impact on fis through increased costs or restrictions on business processes. any inability to prevent security or privacy breaches, or the perception that such breaches may occur, could cause existing clients to lose confidence in fis systems and terminate their agreements with fis, inhibit fis' ability to attract new clients, result in increasing regulation, or bring about other adverse consequences from the government agencies that regulate fis. entity mergers or consolidations and business failures in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our business by eliminating some of our existing and potential clients and making us more dependent on a more limited number of clients. there has been and continues to be substantial consolidation activity in the banking and financial services industry. in addition, certain financial institutions that experienced negative operating results, including some of our clients, have failed. these consolidations and failures reduce our number of potential clients and may reduce our number of existing clients, which could adversely affect our revenue, even if the events do not reduce the aggregate activities of the consolidated entities. further, if our clients or our partners across any of our businesses fail and/or merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients or our partners, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce use of our services. it is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidations would have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services we currently provide or could provide. any of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. increased merchant, financial institution or referral partner attrition and decreased transaction volume could cause fis' revenue to decline. our merchant business may experience attrition and declines in merchant and financial institution credit, debit or prepaid card processing volume resulting from several factors, including business closures, consolidations, loss of accounts to competitors, account closures that it initiates due to heightened credit risks, and reductions in its merchants' sales volumes. our referral partners, many of which are not exclusive, such as merchant banks, technology solution partners, payment facilitators, independent sales organizations and trade associations are contributors to our revenue growth. if a referral partner switches to another transaction processor, shuts down or becomes insolvent, we will no longer receive new merchant referrals from the referral partner, and we risk losing existing merchants that were originally enrolled by the referral partner. fis cannot predict the level of attrition and decreased transaction volume in the future, and its revenue could decline as a result of higher-than-expected attrition, which could have a material adverse effect on fis' business, financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to innovate or adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade or implement our technology are not successful, we could lose clients, or our clients could lose customers, and we could have difficulty attracting new clients for our services. the markets for our services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new services and evolving industry standards. our future success will be significantly affected by our ability to enhance our current solutions and develop and introduce new solutions and services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients and their customers. in addition, as more of our revenue and market demand shifts to software as a service ("saas"), business process as a service ("bpaas"), cloud, and new emerging technologies, the need to keep pace with rapid technology changes becomes more acute. these initiatives carry the risks associated with any new solution development effort, including cost overruns, delays in delivery and implementation, and performance issues. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing, marketing and selling new solutions or enhancements that meet these changing demands, that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, implementation, introduction, and marketing of 13 table of contents these solutions or enhancements, or that our new solutions and enhancements will adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. any of these developments could have an adverse impact on our future revenue and/or business prospects. we operate in a competitive business environment; if we are unable to compete effectively, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. the market for our services is intensely competitive. our competitors in banking and capital market solutions vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the solutions and services they offer. some of our competitors have substantial resources. we face direct competition from third parties, and because many of our larger potential clients have historically developed their key applications in-house and therefore view their system requirements from a make-versus-buy perspective, we also often compete against our potential clients' in-house capacities. in addition, the markets in which we compete have recently attracted increasing competition from smaller start-ups with emerging technologies which are receiving increasing investments, global banks (and businesses controlled by combinations of global banks) and global internet companies that are introducing competitive products and services into the marketplace, particularly in the payments area. emerging technologies and increased competition may also have the effect of unbundling bank solutions and result in displacing solutions we are currently providing from our legacy systems. international competitors are also now targeting and entering the u.s. market with greater force. there can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. in the merchant business, our competitors include financial institutions and well-established payment processing companies. in this business, our u.s. competitors that are financial institutions or are affiliated with financial institutions may not incur the sponsorship costs we incur for registration with the payment networks. accordingly, these competitors may be able to offer more attractive fees to our current and prospective clients or other services that we do not provide. competition could result in a loss of existing clients and greater difficulty attracting new clients. furthermore, if competition causes us to reduce the fees we charge in order to attract or retain clients, there is no assurance we can successfully control our costs in order to maintain our profit margins. one or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on fis' business, financial condition and results of operations. fis is currently facing new competitive pressure from non-traditional payment processors and other parties entering the payments industry, which may compete in one or more of the functions performed in processing merchant transactions. these competitors have significant financial resources and robust networks and are highly regarded by consumers. if these competitors gain a greater share of total electronic payments transactions, or if we are unable to successfully react to changes in the industry spurred by the entry of these new market participants, then it could have a material adverse effect on fis' business, financial condition and results of operations. see "item 1. business, competition." global economic, political and other conditions, including business cycles, seasonality and consumer confidence, may adversely affect our clients or trends in consumer spending, which may adversely impact the demand for our services and our revenue and profitability. a significant portion of our revenue is derived from transaction processing fees. the global transaction processing industries depend heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. any change in economic factors, including a sustained deterioration in general economic conditions or consumer confidence, particularly in the u.s., or increases in interest rates in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer spending, consumer debt levels and credit and debit card usage, and as a result, adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions that we service. when there is a slowdown or downturn in the economy, a drop in stock market levels or trading volumes, or an event that disrupts the financial markets, our business and financial results, particularly with respect to our capital markets segment, may suffer for a number of reasons. customers may react to worsening conditions by reducing their capital expenditures in general or by specifically reducing their information technology spending. in addition, customers may curtail or discontinue trading operations, delay or cancel information technology projects, or seek to lower their costs by renegotiating vendor contracts. moreover, competitors may respond to market conditions by lowering prices and attempting to lure away our customers to lower cost solutions. any further protective trade policies or actions taken by the u.s. may also result in other countries reducing, or making more expensive, services permitted to be provided by u.s.-based companies. if any of these circumstances remain in effect for an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial results. 14 table of contents the merchant business has experienced in the past, and expects to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in its revenue as a result of consumer spending patterns. historically, merchant revenue has been strongest in the fourth quarter and weakest in the first quarter. this is due to the increase in the number and amount of electronic payment transactions related to seasonal retail events. constraints within global financial markets or international regulatory requirements could constrain our financial institution clients' ability to purchase our services, impacting our future growth and profitability. a significant number of our clients and potential clients may hold sovereign debt of economically struggling nations or be subject to international banking regulatory requirements such as basel iii (and a set of further reforms known as basel iv scheduled to be phased in commencing in january 2022), which may require changes in their capitalization and hence the amount of their working capital available to purchase our services. these potential constraints could alter the ability of clients or potential clients to purchase our services and thus could have a significant impact on our future growth and profitability. the sales and implementation cycles for many of our software and service offerings can be lengthy and require significant investment from both our clients and fis. if we fail to close sales, or if a client chooses not to complete an installation after expending significant time and resources to do so, then our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. the sales and associated deployment of many of our software or service offerings often involve significant capital commitments by our clients and/or fis. potential clients generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available software and services and require us to expend substantial time, effort, and money educating them prior to sales. further, as part of the sale or deployment of our software and services, clients may also require fis to perform significant related services to complete a proof of concept or custom development to meet their needs. all of the aforementioned activities may require the expenditure of significant funds and management resources and, ultimately, the client may determine not to close the sale or complete the implementation. if we are unsuccessful in closing sales or implementing our solutions, or if the client decides not to complete an implementation after we expend significant funds and management resources or we experience delays, then it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. our results may fluctuate from period to period because of the lengthy and unpredictable sales cycle for our software, changes in our mix of licenses and services, activity by competitors, and customer budgeting, operational requirements or renewal cycles. particularly with respect to our capital markets segment, our operating results may fluctuate from period to period and be difficult to predict in a particular period due to the timing and magnitude of software license sales and other factors. we offer a number of our software solutions on a license basis, which means that the customer has the right to run the software on its own or a third party's hardware. we generally recognize license revenue when the license contract is signed, the software is delivered, and the term has begun. the value of the license often depends on a number of customer-specific factors, such as the number of customer locations, users or accounts. the sales cycle for a software license may be lengthy and take unexpected turns. thus, it is difficult to predict when software sales will occur or how much revenue they will generate. because there are few incremental costs associated with software sales, our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year due to the timing and magnitude of software sales. our results may also vary as a result of pricing pressures, increased cost of equipment, the evolving and unpredictable markets in which our solutions and services are sold, changes in accounting principles, and competitors' new solutions or services. in addition, there are a number of other factors that could cause our sales and results of operation to fluctuate from period to period, including the following: customers periodically renew or upgrade their installed base of our solutions, which trigger buying cycles for current or new versions of our solutions; the budgeting cycles and purchasing practices of customers, particularly large customers; changes in customer, distributor or reseller requirements or market needs; deferral of orders from customers in anticipation of new solutions or offerings announced by us or our competitors or otherwise anticipated by the market; our ability to successfully expand our business domestically and internationally; and insolvency or credit difficulties confronting our customers, which could adversely affect their ability to purchase or pay for our solutions. 15 table of contents failure to obtain new clients or renew client contracts on favorable terms could adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. we may face pricing pressure in obtaining and retaining our clients. larger clients may be able to seek price reductions from us when they renew a contract, when a contract is extended, or when the client's business has significant volume changes. larger clients may also reduce services if they decide to move services in-house. further, our smaller and mid-size clients may also exert pricing pressure, particularly upon renewal, due to competition or other economic needs or pressures being experienced by the client. on some occasions, this pricing pressure results in lower revenue from a client than we had anticipated based on our previous agreement with that client. this reduction in revenue could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. further, failure to renew client contracts on favorable terms could have an adverse effect on our business. our contracts with clients generally run for several years and include liquidated damage provisions that provide for early termination fees. terms are generally renegotiated prior to the end of a contract's term. if we are not successful in achieving a high rate of contract renewals on favorable terms, then our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. our business and operating results could be adversely affected if we experience business interruptions, errors or failure in connection with our or third-party information technology and communication systems and other software and hardware used in connection with our business, if we experience defects or design errors in the software solutions we offer, or more generally, if the third-party vendors we rely upon are unwilling or unable to provide the services we need to effectively operate our business. many of our services are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new technology solutions and services. further, the technology solutions underlying our services have occasionally contained, and may in the future contain, undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. in addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on platforms used by our clients, or our clients may cancel a project after we have expended significant effort and resources to complete an installation. finally, our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. defects in our technology solutions, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions, or other difficulties could result in (i) interruption of business operations; (ii) delay in market acceptance; (iii) additional development and remediation costs; (iv) diversion of technical and other resources; (v) loss of clients; (vi) negative publicity; or (vii) exposure to liability claims. any one or more of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. although we attempt to limit our potential liability through controls, including system redundancies, security controls, application development and testing controls, and disclaimers and limitation-of-liability provisions in our license and client agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will always be successful in preventing disruption or limiting our liability. further, most of the solutions we offer are very complex software systems that are regularly updated. no matter how careful the design and development, complex software often contains errors and defects when first introduced and when major new updates or enhancements are released. if errors or defects are discovered in current or future solutions, then we may not be able to correct them in a timely manner, if at all. in our development of updates and enhancements to our software solutions, we may make a major design error that makes the solution operate incorrectly or less efficiently. the failure of software to properly perform could result in the company and its clients being subjected to losses or liability, including censures, fines, or other sanctions by the applicable regulatory authorities, and we could be liable to parties who are financially harmed by those errors. in addition, such errors could cause the company to lose revenue, lose clients or damage its reputation. in addition, we generally depend on a number of third parties, both in the united states and internationally, to supply elements of our systems, computers, research and market data, connectivity, communication network infrastructure, other equipment and related support and maintenance. we cannot be certain that any of these third parties will be able to continue providing these services to effectively meet our evolving needs. if our vendors, or in certain cases vendors of our customers, fail to meet their obligations, provide poor or untimely service, or we are unable to make alternative arrangements for the provision of these services, then we may in turn fail to provide our services or to meet our obligations to our customers, and our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. 16 table of contents the dodd-frank act, the cfpb, and rules and regulations adopted by state regulatory authorities, such as the new york state department of financial services, may result in business changes for certain of our businesses and clients; these have had, and further could have, an adverse effect on our financial condition, revenue, results of operations, or prospects for future growth and overall business. the dodd-frank act represented a comprehensive overhaul of the regulations governing the financial services industry within the u.s. the dodd-frank act established the cfpb and provided the cfpb with rulemaking authority with respect to certain federal consumer protection statutes as well as examination and supervisory authority over consumer reporting agencies, including chexsystems. the cfpb continues to establish rules and regulations for regulating financial and non-financial institutions and providers to those institutions to ensure adequate protection of consumer privacy and to ensure consumers are not impacted by deceptive business practices. these rules and regulations govern our clients or potential clients and also govern certain of our businesses. these regulations have resulted, and may further result, in the need for fis to make capital investments to modify our solutions and services to facilitate our clients' and potential clients' compliance, as well as to deploy additional processes or reporting to comply with these regulations. in the future, we may be subject to additional expense to ensure continued compliance with applicable laws and regulations and to investigate, defend and/or remedy actual or alleged violations. further, requirements of these regulations have resulted, and could further result, in changes in our business practices, our clients' business practices and those of other marketplace participants that may alter the delivery of services to consumers, which have impacted, and could further impact, the demand for our software and services as well as alter the type or volume of transactions that we process on behalf of our clients. as a result, these requirements, or proposed or future requirements, could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, revenue, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. the new york department of financial services has enacted new rules that require covered financial institutions to establish and maintain cybersecurity programs. these, and a set of newer rules just issued, subject fis to additional regulation and require us to adopt additional business practices that could also require additional capital expenditures or impact our operating results. changes to state money transmission laws and regulations, including changing interpretations and the implementation of new or varying regulatory requirements, may result in the need for additional money transmitter licenses. these changes could result in increased costs of compliance, as well as fines or penalties. moreover, the legislative and regulatory landscape for financial crimes compliance continues to evolve, and any failure to comply with such laws could expose us to liability and/or reputational damage. financial crimes laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and impose inconsistent or conflicting requirements. complying with varying jurisdictional requirements could increase the costs and complexity of compliance and associated recordkeeping costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. the company is subject to regulation, supervision, and enforcement authority of numerous governmental and regulatory bodies in the jurisdictions in which it operates, which includes banking regulators and the cfpb in the u.s., the fca and psr in the u.k., and the dnb in the netherlands. because the company is a technology service provider to u.s. financial institutions, it is subject to regular oversight and examination by the federal banking agencies ("fba"), each of which is a member of the ffiec, an inter-agency body of federal banking regulators. the fba have broad discretion in the implementation, interpretation and enforcement of banking and consumer protection laws and use the ffiec's uniform principles, standards and report forms in its review of bank service providers like fis. a failure to comply with these laws, or a failure to meet the supervisory expectations of the banking regulators, could result in adverse action against the company. the regulators have the power to, among other things, enjoin "unsafe or unsound" practices; require affirmative actions to correct any violation or practice; issue administrative orders that can be judicially enforced; direct the sale of subsidiaries or other assets; and assess civil money penalties. the company is also subject to ongoing supervision by regulatory and governmental bodies across the world, including economic and conduct regulators, such as the fca and psr in the u.k. and the dnb in the netherlands, and regulatory and governmental bodies responsible for issuing anti-money laundering, anti-bribery, and global economic sanctions regulations. these various regulatory regimes require compliance across many aspects of our merchant activities in respect of capital requirements, safeguarding, training, authorization and supervision of personnel, systems, processes and documentation. if we fail to comply with relevant regulations, then we risk reputational damage, potential civil and criminal sanctions, fines or other action imposed by regulatory or governmental authorities, including the potential suspension or revocation of the permission-based regulatory licenses which authorize the company to provide core services to customers. certain aspects of our business may be determined by an appropriate regulator, quasi-regulatory body or the courts as not being conducted in 17 table of contents accordance with applicable laws or regulations, or we may face allegations of direct or indirect non-compliance with relevant regulatory regimes (such as the misselling of financial products), or other actions in the u.k., the netherlands and other jurisdictions, as well as private litigation resulting from such actions. this could result in an adverse effect on fis' business, reputation and customer relationships, which in turn could adversely affect its financial position and performance. we are also involved, from time to time, in regulatory investigations, reviews and proceedings (both formal and informal) by regulatory authorities regarding our businesses, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. specifically, the psr is carrying out a market review into card-acquiring services provided by merchant acquirers in the u.k. with the scope of such review to include the following: the nature and characteristics of card-acquiring services; who provides card-acquiring services and how their market shares have developed historically; how merchants buy card-acquiring services; whether there are credible alternatives to card-acquiring services for some or all merchants; the outcomes of the competitive process including the fees merchants pay and the quality of service they receive. because the psr is an economic regulator in the u.k., it has the power to issue directions in relation to the functioning of the card acquiring market in the u.k. as a result of this review. further, the european commission is conducting a review of the relevant e.u. regulations on interchange fees for card-based payment transactions ("ifr") to examine the appropriateness of the levels of interchange fees (taking into account the use and cost of the various means of payments), the level of entry of new players, new technology and the impact of innovative business models on the market. the primary purpose of this review is to understand whether overall costs for card acceptance for merchants, including the overall merchant service charge, have gone up, down or broadly stayed the same since the introduction of the ifr. the e.u. has overall authority to enforce and establish new standards or guidance which may require banks and payments institutions, including our merchant business, to modify current pricing and fee structures, and the e.u. could choose to exercise such authority prior to or after conclusion of this review. failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in suspension or revocation of the permission-based regulatory licenses and/or restrictions on our ability to provide services and/or the imposition of civil fines and/or criminal penalties and sanctions. many of our clients are subject to a regulatory environment and to industry standards that may change in a manner that reduces the types or volume of solutions or services we provide, or may reduce the type or number of transactions in which our clients engage, and therefore reduce our revenue. our clients are subject to a number of government regulations and industry standards with which our services must comply. our clients must ensure that our services and related solutions work within the extensive and evolving regulatory and industry requirements applicable to them. federal, state, foreign or industry authorities could adopt laws, rules or regulations affecting our clients' businesses that could lead to increased operating costs and could reduce the convenience and functionality of our services, possibly resulting in reduced market acceptance. in addition, action by regulatory authorities relating to credit availability, data usage, privacy, or other related regulatory developments could have an adverse effect on our clients and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, revenue, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. elimination of regulatory requirements could also adversely affect the sales of our solutions designed to help clients comply with complex regulatory environments. our revenue relating to all aspects of the sale of services to members of visa, mastercard and other payment networks is dependent upon our continued certification and sponsorship, and the loss or suspension of certification or sponsorship could adversely affect our business. in order to provide our card processing services, we must be certified (including applicable sponsorship) by visa, mastercard, american express, discover and other similar organizations. these certifications are dependent upon our continued adherence to the standards of the issuing bodies and sponsoring member banks. the member financial institutions, some of which are our competitors, set the standards with which we must comply. if we fail to comply with these standards we could be fined, our certifications could be suspended, or our registration could be terminated. the suspension or termination of our certifications, or any changes in, or the enforcement of, the rules and regulations governing or relating to the businesses of visa, mastercard or other payment networks, could result in a reduction in revenue or increased costs of operation for us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. in order to provide merchant transaction processing services in the u.s. and certain other jurisdictions, we are registered through our bank sponsorships with the visa, mastercard and other payment networks as service providers for member institutions. as a result, fis and many of its clients are subject to payment network rules. if fis or its associated participants do not comply with the payment network requirements, the payment networks could seek to fine fis, suspend fis or terminate its registrations. our merchant business has occasionally received notices of noncompliance and fines, which have typically 18 table of contents related to excessive chargebacks by a merchant or data security failures on the part of a merchant. if fis is unable to recover fines from, or pass through costs to, its merchants or other associated participants, then fis would experience a financial loss. the termination of its registration, or any changes in the payment network rules that would impair fis' registrations, could require the company to stop providing payment network services to the visa, mastercard or other payment networks, which would have a material adverse effect on fis' business, financial condition and results of operations. outside of the u.s., our merchant business primarily provides acquiring and processing services directly through international credit and debit card networks run by visa, mastercard and other payment networks. in order to access the card networks, the company must maintain the relevant jurisdictional operating licenses or memberships. in some markets where it is not feasible or possible for the company to have a direct acquiring license with a card network, we have a relationship with a local financial institution sponsor. as part of the company's registration with card networks (either directly or indirectly through local sponsors), the company is subject to operating rules, including mandatory technology requirements, promulgated by the card networks that could subject the company and its customers to a variety of fines and penalties, as well as suspension and termination of membership or access. changes in the contracts, rules or standards of networks, or relevant legal or regulatory scrutiny of pricing practices, could adversely affect fis' business, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, card and debit networks increase the interchange fees that they charge. at their sole discretion, our financial institution sponsors have the right to pass any increases in interchange and other fees on to us, and they have consistently done so in the past. while we are generally permitted under the contracts with our merchants to pass these fee increases along to our merchants through corresponding increases in our processing fees, if we cannot continue to do so due to contractual or regulatory requirements or competitive pressures, the inability to pass through such fees could have a material adverse effect on fis' business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, in order to access the card networks directly, as our merchant business does primarily outside the u.s., we must pay card network membership fees, which are subject to change from time to time, and which we may be unable to pass along to our merchant clients, potentially resulting in fis absorbing a portion or all of such increases in the future. furthermore, the rules and regulations of the various card associations and networks prescribe certain capital requirements. any increase in the capital level required would further limit our use of capital for other purposes. moreover, as payment networks become more dependent on proprietary technology, modify their technological approach or operating practices, and/or seek to provide value added services to issuers and merchants, there is heightened risk that rules and standards may be governed by their own self-interest, or the self-interest of third parties with influence over them, which could materially impact fis' competitive position and operations. interchange fees and pricing practices have been receiving significant legal and regulatory scrutiny worldwide. the resulting changes that could occur from proposed regulations or other forms of enforcement could alter the fees charged by us, card associations and debit networks worldwide. such changes could have an adverse impact on our business or financial condition and results of operations. if fis' agreements with u.s. financial institution sponsors and clearing service providers to process electronic payment transactions are terminated or otherwise expire and we are unable to renew existing or secure new sponsors or clearing service providers, then we will not be able to conduct our merchant business in the u.s. in the u.s. and certain other markets, the visa, mastercard and other payment network rules require our merchant business to be sponsored by a member bank in order to process electronic payment transactions. because we are not a u.s. bank, we are unable to directly access these payment networks in the u.s. we are currently registered with the visa, mastercard and other payment networks through fifth third bank and other sponsor banks in the u.s. and elsewhere. our current agreement with fifth third bank expires in december 2024. these agreements with fifth third bank and other sponsors give such sponsors substantial discretion in approving certain aspects of our business practices in our merchant business, including our solicitation, application and qualification procedures for merchants and the terms of our agreements with merchants. our financial institution sponsors' discretionary actions under these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also rely on fifth third bank and various other financial institutions to provide clearing services in connection with our settlement activities. without these sponsorships or clearing services agreements in our merchant business, we would not be able to process visa, mastercard and other payment network transactions or settle transactions in relevant markets, including the u.s. which would have a material adverse effect on fis' business, financial condition and results of operations. furthermore, fis' financial results could be adversely affected if the costs associated with such sponsorships or clearing services agreements increase. 19 table of contents our securities brokerage operations are highly regulated and subject to risks that are not encountered in our other businesses. one of our subsidiaries is an sec registered broker-dealer in the u.s., and others are authorized by the fca to conduct certain regulated business in the u.k. domestic and foreign regulatory and self-regulatory organizations, such as the sec, finra, and the fca, can, among other things, fine, censure, issue cease-and-desist orders against, and suspend or expel a broker-dealer or its officers or employees for failure to comply with the many laws and regulations that govern brokerage activities. those laws and regulations derive from a variety of policy considerations and address a wide range of topics, including those designed to protect customers of broker-dealers, and the privacy of their information, and those designed to protect the integrity of the markets, such as laws and regulations requiring broker-dealers to report suspicious activity of customers. sanctions for failure to comply with such laws and regulations may arise out of currently conducted activities or those conducted in prior periods. our ability to comply with these laws and regulations is largely dependent on our establishment, maintenance, and enforcement of an effective brokerage compliance program. failure to establish, maintain, and enforce the required brokerage compliance procedures, even if unintentional, could subject us to significant losses, lead to disciplinary or other actions, and tarnish our reputation. regulations affecting the brokerage industry may change, which could adversely affect our financial results. we are exposed to certain risks relating to the execution services provided by our brokerage operations to our customers and counterparties, which include other broker-dealers, active traders, hedge funds, asset managers, and other institutional and non-institutional clients. these risks include, but are not limited to, customers or counterparties failing to pay for or deliver securities, trading errors, the inability or failure to settle trades, and trade execution system failures. as trading in the u.s. securities markets has become more automated, the potential impact of a trading error or a rapid series of errors caused by a computer or human error or a malicious act has become greater. in our other businesses, we generally can disclaim liability for trading losses that may be caused by our software, but in our brokerage operations, we may not be able to limit our liability for trading losses or failed trades even when we are not at fault. as a result, we may suffer losses that are disproportionately large compared to the relatively modest profit contributions of our brokerage operations. privacy laws and regulations, such as the gdpr, have required and will further require fis to adopt new business practices and contractual provisions in existing and new contracts which may require transitional and incremental expenses which may impact our future operating results. new privacy laws, such as the gdpr in the e.u., continue to develop in unpredictable ways. the company is also subject to the california consumer privacy act effective january 1, 2020 and will be subject to the brazilian general personal data protection act, which is scheduled to become effective in august 2020. failure to comply with these new laws could result in significant penalties, damage to our brand and loss of business. the company has incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to comply with these new laws. there are also several additional privacy laws being considered by state legislatures, the federal legislature and countries around the world; so, a more substantial compliance effort with varying regimes in different jurisdictions is considered probable in the future, which will increase the costs and complexities of the business. moreover, privacy laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and impose inconsistent or conflicting requirements. complying with varying jurisdictional requirements could increase the costs and complexity of compliance and associated recordkeeping costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business and incur additional costs. data localization requirements in evolving data protection laws could also increase the cost and alter the approach to housing data around the world. in addition, our businesses are increasingly subject to laws and regulations relating to surveillance, encryption and data onshoring in the jurisdictions in which we operate. compliance with these laws and regulations may require us to change our technology for information security, operational infrastructure, policies and procedures, which could be time-consuming and costly. if we fail to comply with applicable regulations or to meet regulatory expectations, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely impacted. the majority of our data processing services for financial institutions are not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. however, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, our data processing operations are examined on a regular basis by various federal and state regulatory authorities and by international regulatory authorities, such as the fca, in certain jurisdictions. if we fail to comply with any applicable regulations or guidelines for operations of a data services provider, we could be subject to regulatory actions or rating changes, may not meet contractual obligations, and may suffer harm to our client relationships or reputation. failure to meet the aforementioned requirements or to adapt to new requirements at the federal, state or international level 20 table of contents could inhibit our ability to retain existing clients or obtain new clients, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition to our data processing services described above, we also have business operations that store, process or transmit consumer information or have direct relationships with consumers that are obligated to comply with regulations, including, but not limited to, the fcra, the federal fair debt collection practices act and applicable privacy requirements. further, our international businesses must comply with applicable laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act. failure to maintain compliance with or adapt to changes in any of the aforementioned requirements could result in fines, penalties or regulatory actions that could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. high profile payment card industry or digital banking security breaches could impact consumer payment behavior patterns in the future and reduce our card payment transaction volumes. we are unable to predict whether or when high profile card payment or digital banking security breaches will occur and if they occur, whether consumers will transact less on their payment cards or reduce their digital banking service. if consumers transact less on cards issued by our clients or reduce digital banking services and we are not able to adapt to offer our clients alternative technologies, then our revenue and related earnings could be adversely affected. misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights or a finding that our patents are invalid could impair our competitive position. our ability to compete depends in some part upon our proprietary solutions and technology. despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary or challenge the validity of our patents with governmental authorities. policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult. we cannot make any assurances that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of technology or that the agreements entered into for that purpose will be enforceable. effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available online. misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. as we increase our international business, we are subject to further risks of misappropriation of our intellectual property risks in countries which have laws which are less protective of intellectual property or are enforced in a less protective manner. if our applications or services are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, then we may be required to change our business practices and may also become subject to significant costs and monetary penalties. as our information technology applications and services develop, we are increasingly subject to infringement claims. any claims, whether with or without merit, could (i) be expensive and time-consuming to defend; (ii) result in an injunction or other equitable relief which could cause us to cease making, licensing or using applications that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; (iii) require us to redesign our applications, if feasible; (iv) divert management's attention and resources; and (v) require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies or pay damages resulting from any infringing use. some of our solutions contain "open source" software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could adversely affect our business. we use a limited amount of software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called "open source" licenses and may continue to use such software in the future. some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. by the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner. additionally, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by u.s. or other courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our solutions. in addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. we have established processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening requests from our development organizations for the use of open source, but we cannot be sure that all open source is submitted for approval prior to use in our solutions. in addition, many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, adversely affect our business. 21 table of contents lack of system integrity, fraudulent payments, credit quality, and undetected errors related to funds settlement or the availability of clearing services could result in a financial loss. we settle funds on behalf of financial institutions, other businesses and consumers and receive funds from clients, card issuers, payment networks and consumers on a daily basis for a variety of transaction types. transactions facilitated by us include debit card, credit card, electronic bill payment transactions, banking payments and check clearing that supports consumers, financial institutions and other businesses. these payment activities rely upon the technology infrastructure that facilitates the verification of activity with counterparties, the facilitation of the payment as well as the detection or prevention of fraudulent payments. if our continuity of operations, integrity of processing, or ability to detect or prevent fraudulent payments were compromised, this could result in a financial loss to us. in addition, we rely on various financial institutions to provide ach services in support of funds settlement for certain of our solutions. if we are unable to obtain such ach services in the future, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. in addition, we may issue credit to consumers, financial institutions or other businesses as part of the funds settlement. a default on this credit by a counterparty could result in a financial loss to us. furthermore, if one of our clients for which we facilitate settlement suffers a fraudulent event due to a deficiency in their controls, we may suffer a financial loss if the client does not have sufficient capital to cover the loss. the referendum on the u.k.'s membership in the e.u. could cause disruption to and create uncertainty surrounding our business. significant portions of our merchant business is located in, and services clients in, the u.k. we also have other business and operations in the u.k. and the e.u. the u.k. left the e.u. ("brexit") on january 31, 2020, pursuant to the terms of a withdrawal agreement concluded between the u.k. government and the council of the e.u. the withdrawal agreement includes a transition period until december 31, 2020, during which time the u.k. will follow the e.u.'s rules and regulations and will remain in the single market and the customs union. the go-forward relationship between the u.k. and the e.u. will continue to be a point of negotiation during this transition period and there can be no guarantee as to what relationship will be agreed upon following the end of such transition period. actions to implement brexit may also create global economic uncertainty, which may cause clients to closely monitor their costs and reduce their spending on our solutions and services. although the potential impact of brexit on our business cannot be fully assessed until the detailed terms of the u.k.'s continued relationship with the e.u. following the transition period are finalized and the u.k. negotiates, concludes and implements successor trading arrangements with other countries, it is likely that this withdrawal process will continue to result in a sustained period of economic and political uncertainty and complexity. these developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets and could significantly reduce global market liquidity and restrict the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets. asset valuations, currency exchange rates and credit ratings may be especially subject to increased market volatility. lack of clarity about future u.k. laws and regulations as the u.k. determines which e.u. laws to replace or replicate following the transition period, including financial laws and regulations, tax and free trade agreements, intellectual property rights, supply chain logistics, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, competition laws, immigration laws and employment laws, could decrease foreign direct investment in the u.k., increase costs, depress economic activity and restrict our access to capital. if the u.k. and the e.u. are unable to negotiate acceptable terms following the transition period or if other e.u. member states pursue withdrawal, barrier-free access between the u.k. and other e.u. member states or among the european economic area overall could be diminished or eliminated. any of these factors could have a direct or indirect impact on our business in the u.k. and the broader e.u., on our suppliers and customers in the u.k. and the broader e.u. and on our business outside the u.k. and the broader e.u., which could have a material adverse effect on our business, business opportunities, financial condition, cash flows and operating results. failure to properly manage or mitigate risks in the operation of our wealth and retirement businesses in the u.s and the u.k could have adverse liability consequences. we have wealth and retirement businesses in the u.s. and u.k. engaged in processing securities transactions on behalf of clients and serving as a custodian. failure to properly manage or mitigate risks in those operations and increased volatility in the financial markets may increase the potential for, and magnitude of, resulting losses, including those that may arise from human errors or omissions, defects or interruptions in computer or communications systems or breakdowns in processes or in internal controls. human errors or omissions may include failures to comply with applicable laws or corporate policies and procedures, theft, fraud or misappropriation of assets, whether arising from the intentional actions of internal personnel or 22 table of contents external third parties. in addition, the u.s.-based business holds a charter in the state of georgia, which exposes us to further regulatory compliance requirements of the georgia department of banking and finance. the u.s. wealth and retirement business is required to hold certain levels of regulatory capital as defined by the state banking regulator in georgia. in the u.k., our platform securities and broker-dealer businesses are regulated by the fca and are subject to further regulatory capital requireme nts. our business is subject to the risks of international operations, including movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the international operations of fis represented approximately 24% of our total 2019 revenue and are largely conducted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the british pound sterling, euro, brazilian real, and indian rupee. as a result of the worldpay acquisition, fis has significantly expanded its international presence by offering merchant acquiring, including ecommerce, services outside of the u.s., including in the u.k. and e.u. countries, where worldpay's principal non-u.s. operations are currently located. our business and financial results could be adversely affected due to a variety of factors, including the following: changes in a specific country or region's political and cultural climate or economic condition, including change in governmental regime; unexpected or unfavorable changes in foreign laws, regulatory requirements and related interpretations; difficulty of effective enforcement of contractual provisions in local jurisdictions; inadequate intellectual property protection in foreign countries; trade-protection measures, import or export licensing requirements such as export administration regulations promulgated by the u.s. department of commerce and fines, penalties or suspension or revocation of export privileges; trade sanctions imposed by the u.s. or other governments with jurisdictional authority over our business operations; the effects of applicable and potentially adverse foreign tax law changes; significant adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates; lesser enforcement of intellectual property laws and protections internationally; longer accounts receivable cycles; managing a geographically dispersed workforce; trade treaties, tariffs or agreements that could adversely affect our ability to do business in affected countries; and compliance with the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the office of foreign assets control regulations, particularly in emerging markets. as we expand our international operations, more of our clients may pay us in foreign currencies. conducting business in currencies other than the u.s. dollar subjects us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that can negatively impact our results, period to period, including relative to analyst estimates or guidance. our primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relates to foreign currencies in brazil, europe, including the u.k., and parts of asia. the u.s. dollar value of our net investments in foreign operations, the periodic conversion of foreign-denominated earnings to the u.s. dollar (our reporting currency), and our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, could be adversely affected in a material manner by movements in foreign currency exchange rates. these risks could cause an adverse effect on the business, financial position and results of operations of the company. failure to comply with anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. we are subject to the fcpa, the u.k. bribery act and other anti-bribery, anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws in various countries around the world. the fcpa, the u.k. bribery act and similar applicable laws generally prohibit companies, as well as their officers, directors, employees and third-party intermediaries, business partners and agents, from making improper payments or providing other improper things of value to government officials or other persons for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. the fcpa also requires that u.s. public companies maintain books and records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. we conduct business in many foreign countries, including a number of countries with developing economies, and many of our employees, third-party intermediaries and agents in such countries may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies, state owned or affiliated entities and other third parties where we may be held liable if they take actions in violation of these laws, even if we do not explicitly authorize them. although our policies and procedures require compliance with these laws and are designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, we do business in many countries 23 table of contents all over the world and cannot assure that our employees, contractors or agents somewhere in the world will not take actions in violation of applicable laws or our policies, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. in the event that we believe or have reason to believe that our employees, contractors or agents have or may have violated such laws, we may be required to investigate or to have outside counsel investigate the relevant facts and circumstances. detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged violations can be extensive and require a significant diversion of time, resources and attention from senior management. further, we cannot assure that any such investigation will successfully uncover all relevant facts and circumstances. any violation of the fcpa, the u.k. bribery act or other applicable anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could result in whistleblower complaints, adverse media coverage, investigations, loss of export privileges, and criminal or civil sanctions, penalties and fines, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. we have businesses in emerging markets that may experience significant economic volatility. we have operations in emerging markets, primarily in brazil, india, southeast asia, the middle east and africa. these emerging market economies tend to be more volatile than the more established markets we serve in north america and europe, which could add volatility to our future revenue and earnings. acts of war or terrorism, international conflicts, political instability, natural disasters, or widespread outbreak of an illness could negatively affect various aspects of our business, including our workforce and our business partners, make it more difficult and expensive to meet our obligations to our customers, and result in reduced revenue from our customers. our global operations are susceptible to global events, including acts or threats of war or terrorism, international conflicts, political instability and natural disasters. we are also susceptible to a widespread outbreak of an illness or other health issue, such as the recent covid-19 coronavirus outbreak first reported in wuhan, hubei province, china in december 2019, resulting to date in tens of thousands of confirmed cases in china and many additional cases identified in other countries in which we conduct business. although we have limited operations in china, we are nevertheless exposed to business risk as a result of covid-19 or other epidemics. these events can spread to different locations across the globe and can have an adverse effect on the global economy, reducing consumer and corporate spending upon which our revenue depends. individual employees can become ill, quarantined, or otherwise unable to work and/or travel due to health reasons or governmental restrictions. some of our operations are in countries where the effects of a widespread illness could be magnified due to health care systems that are less well-developed than in the u.s. the occurrence of any of these events, including the potential future effects of the covid-19 outbreak, could have an adverse effect on our business results and financial condition. failure to attract and retain skilled technical employees or senior management personnel could harm our ability to grow. our future success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled technical personnel. because the development of our solutions and services requires knowledge of computer hardware, operating system software, system management software and application software, our technical personnel must be proficient in a number of disciplines. competition for such technical personnel is intense, and our failure to hire and retain talented personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. our future growth will also require sales and marketing, financial and administrative personnel to develop and support new solutions and services, to enhance and support current solutions and services and to expand operational and financial systems. there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our growth strategies, and we may experience constraints that could adversely affect our ability to satisfy client demand in a timely fashion. our ability to maintain compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations and to manage and monitor the risks facing our business relies upon the ability to maintain skilled compliance, security, risk and audit professionals. competition for such skillsets is intense, and our failure to hire and retain talented personnel could have an adverse effect on our internal control environment and impact our operating results. our senior management team has significant experience in the financial services industry and the loss of this leadership could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. further, the loss of this leadership may have an adverse impact on senior management's ability to provide effective oversight and strategic direction for all key functions within the company, which could impact our future business, operating results and financial condition. 24 table of contents we are the subject of various legal proceedings that could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. we are involved in various litigation matters, including in some instances class-action cases and patent infringement litigation. if we are unsuccessful in our defense of litigation matters, we may be forced to pay damages and/or change our business practices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies or unfavorable future tax law changes could adversely affect our tax expense. our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. an unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense and could negatively impact our effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the current and/or future periods. unfavorable future tax law changes could result in negative impacts. in addition, tax-law amendments in the united states and other jurisdictions could significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed. although we cannot predict whether or in what form such legislation will pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. a material weakness in our internal controls could have a material adverse effect on us. effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and to adequately mitigate risk of fraud. if we cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports and adequately mitigate risk of fraud, our reputation and operating results could be harmed. internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. in addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. a material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting could adversely impact our ability to provide timely and accurate financial information. if we are unable to report financial information timely and accurately or to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, we could adversely affect our business prospects. fis expects that the worldpay acquisition may necessitate significant modifications to its internal control systems, processes and information systems, both on a transition basis and over the longer term as fis fully integrates the combined company. due to the complexity of the merger, fis cannot be certain that changes to internal control over financial reporting will be effective for any period, or on an ongoing basis. if fis is unable to accurately report financial results in a timely manner, or is unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market perception thereof may be materially adversely affected. risks related to business combinations and ventures strategic transactions, including acquisitions and divestitures, involve significant risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. strategic acquisitions and divestitures we have made in the past, and may make in the future, present significant risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. these risks include the following: difficulty in evaluating potential acquisitions, including the risk that our due diligence does not identify or fully assess valuation issues, potential liabilities or other acquisition risks; difficulty and expense in integrating newly acquired businesses and operations, including combining product and service offerings, and in entering into new markets in which we are not experienced, in an efficient and cost-effective manner while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures, and the risk that we encounter significant unanticipated costs or other problems associated with integration; difficulty and expense in consolidating and rationalizing it infrastructure and integrating acquired software; challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits expected from acquisitions; 25 table of contents risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the strategic acquisitions and divestitures do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; risk that acquired systems expose us to cybersecurity and other data security risks; costs to reach appropriate standards to protect against cybersecurity and other data security risks or timeline to achieve such standards may exceed those estimated in diligence; risk that acquired companies are subject to new regulatory regimes or oversight where we have limited experience that may result in additional compliance costs and potential regulatory penalties; risk that we assume or retain, or that companies we have acquired have assumed or retained or otherwise become subject to, significant liabilities that exceed the limitations of any applicable indemnification provisions or the financial resources of any indemnifying parties; risk that indemnification related to businesses divested or spun-off that we may be required to provide or otherwise bear may be significant and could negatively impact our business; risk of exposure to potential liabilities arising out of applicable state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal distribution requirements from spin-offs in which we or companies we have acquired were involved; risk that we may be responsible for u.s. federal income tax liabilities related to acquisitions or divestitures; risk that we are not able to complete strategic divestitures on satisfactory terms and conditions, including non-competition arrangements applicable to certain of our business lines, or within expected time frames; potential loss of key employees or customers of the businesses acquired or to be divested; and risk of diverting the attention of senior management from our existing operations. we have substantial goodwill and other intangible assets recorded as a result of acquisitions, and a severe or extended economic downturn could cause these assets to become impaired, requiring write-downs that would reduce our operating income. as of december 31, 2019 , goodwill aggregated to $52.2 billion , or 62% of total assets. current accounting rules require goodwill to be assessed for impairment at least annually or whenever changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment. factors that may be considered a change in circumstance include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. the results of our 2019 annual assessment of the recoverability of goodwill did not indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair values of the company's reporting units were less than the carrying values of those reporting units, and thus no goodwill impairment existed as of december 31, 2019. however, if worldwide or u.s. economic conditions decline significantly with negative impacts to bank spending and consumer behavior, or if other business or market changes impact our outlook, then the carrying amount of our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets may no longer be recoverable, and we may be required to record an impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. as of december 31, 2019 , intangible assets with finite useful lives aggregated to $15.8 billion , or 19% of total assets. current accounting rules require intangible assets with finite useful lives to be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. factors that may be considered a change in circumstance include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. we will continue to monitor the fair value of our intangible assets as well as our market capitalization and the impact of any economic downturn on our business to determine if there is an impairment in future periods. uncertainties associated with the worldpay acquisition may cause a loss of management personnel and other key employees, which could adversely affect our future business and operations. prior to the acquisition, each of fis and worldpay were dependent on the experience and industry knowledge of their officers and other key employees to execute their business plans. fis' success after the acquisition will depend in part upon its ability to retain key management personnel and other key employees. current and prospective employees of fis may experience uncertainty about their roles within fis following the acquisition or other concerns regarding the operations of fis following the acquisition, any of which may have an adverse effect on the ability of fis to retain or attract key management and other key personnel. if fis is unable to retain personnel after the acquisition, including fis' key management, who are critical to the future operations of the company, fis could face disruptions in its operations, loss of existing customers, loss of key information, expertise or know-how and unanticipated additional recruitment and training costs. in addition, the loss of key personnel could diminish the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. no assurance can be given that fis will be able to retain or attract key management personnel and other key employees to the same extent that fis and worldpay were previously able to retain or attract their own employees. 26 table of contents fis may be unable to integrate the business of worldpay successfully or realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. the acquisition involved the combination of two companies that formerly operated as two independent public companies. the combination of two independent businesses is complex, costly and time consuming, and fis will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of worldpay into fis. potential difficulties that fis may encounter as part of the integration process include the following: the inability to successfully combine the business of worldpay in a manner that permits fis to achieve, on a timely basis, or at all, the enhanced revenue opportunities and cost savings and other benefits anticipated to result from the acquisition; complexities associated with managing the combined businesses, including difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies and the challenge of integrating complex systems, technology, networks and other assets in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies; and potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the acquisition. in addition, it is possible that the integration process could result in the following: diversion of the attention of fis' management; and the disruption of, or the loss of momentum in, fis' ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. any of these issues could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. the synergies attributable to the worldpay acquisition may vary from expectations. fis may fail to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies expected from the acquisition, which could adversely affect fis' business, financial condition and operating results. the success of the acquisition will depend, in significant part, on fis' ability to successfully integrate the acquired business, grow the revenue of the combined company and realize the anticipated strategic benefits and synergies from the combination. fis believes that the addition of worldpay will complement fis' strategy by providing scale and revenue diversity, accelerating fis' growth strategy, enabling fis to have a strong global footprint and to cross-sell across each others' client bases. however, achieving these goals requires growth of the revenue of the combined company and realization of the targeted cost synergies expected from the acquisition. this growth and the anticipated benefits of the transaction may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. actual operating, technological, strategic and revenue opportunities, if achieved at all, may be less significant than expected or may take longer to achieve than anticipated. if we are not able to achieve these objectives and realize the anticipated benefits and synergies expected from the acquisition within the anticipated timing or at all, then our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. the future results of fis following the worldpay acquisition will suffer if fis does not effectively manage its expanded operations. following the acquisition, the size of the business of fis increased significantly beyond the prior size of either fis' or worldpay's business. fis' future success will depend, in part, upon its ability to manage this expanded business, which will pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. fis may also face increased scrutiny from governmental authorities as a result of the significant increase in the size of its business. there can be no assurances that fis will be successful or that it will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements or other benefits currently anticipated from the acquisition. fis is expected to incur substantial costs related to the worldpay acquisition and integration. fis is expected to incur substantial costs in connection with the worldpay acquisition and the related integration. there are a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that are in the process of being integrated, including purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, payroll, pricing and benefits. while fis has assumed that a 27 table of contents certain level of costs will be incurred, there are many factors beyond its control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration costs. moreover, many of the costs that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. these costs could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that fis expects to achieve from the elimination of duplicative costs and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings. these integration costs may result in fis taking significant charges against earnings, and the amount and timing of such charges are uncertain. any material delays, difficulties or unanticipated additional costs associated with integration activities may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. the worldpay acquisition may result in a loss of customers, distributors, suppliers, vendors, landlords, joint venture partners and other business partners and may result in the termination of existing contracts. following the acquisition, some of the customers, distributors, suppliers, vendors, landlords, joint venture partners and other business partners of fis or worldpay may terminate or scale back their current or prospective business relationships with fis. some customers may not wish to source a larger percentage of their needs from a single company or may feel that fis is too closely allied with one of their competitors. if relationships with customers, distributors, suppliers, vendors, landlords, joint venture partners and other business partners are adversely affected by the acquisition, or if fis, following the acquisition, loses the benefits of the contracts of fis or worldpay, our business and financial performance could suffer. following the worldpay acquisition, fis is subject to certain risks associated with the implementation of our merchant business' new proprietary global acquiring platform. our merchant business has made progress toward implementation of a new proprietary global acquiring platform project. as we continue to implement this project, through the migration of existing merchant customers and onboarding of new merchant customers to the platform, the scale and complexity associated with this project presents the increased potential for service level delays or disruptions in the processing of transactions, telecommunications failures or other difficulties. such delays or disruptions could result in reputational harm, loss of business and increased operational or technological costs. following the worldpay acquisition, fis may not be able to continue to expand its share of the existing payment processing markets or expand into new markets, which would inhibit fis' ability to grow and increase its profitability. following the acquisition, fis' future growth and profitability will depend in part upon the growth of the payment processing markets in which fis currently operates and its ability to increase its penetration and service offerings within these markets, as well as the emergence of new markets for merchant services and its ability to penetrate these new markets. attracting new clients is difficult because of potential disadvantages associated with switching payment processing vendors, such as transition costs, business disruption and loss of accustomed functionality. fis will seek to overcome these factors by making investments to enhance the functionality of the company's platforms and differentiate its services. however, there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful, and this resistance may adversely affect its growth. fis' expansion into new markets will also be dependent upon its ability to adapt existing merchant payment processing technology and offerings or to develop new or innovative applications to meet the particular service needs of each new market. in order to do so, fis will need to anticipate and react to market changes and devote appropriate financial and technical resources to its development efforts, and there can be no assurance that it will be successful in these efforts. furthermore, in response to market developments, fis may continue to expand into new geographical markets and foreign countries in which it currently has no operating experience. however, there can be no assurance that fis will be able to successfully continue such expansion efforts due to this lack of experience and the multitude of risks associated with global operations or lack of appropriate regulatory approval. following the worldpay acquisition, fraud by merchants or others could have a material adverse effect on fis' business, financial condition and results of operations. in our merchant business, we face potential liability for fraudulent electronic payment transactions initiated by merchants, third parties or other associated participants. examples of merchant fraud include when a merchant or other party knowingly accepts payment by a stolen or counterfeit credit, debit or prepaid card, card number or other credentials; records a false sales transaction utilizing a stolen or counterfeit card or credentials; processes an invalid card; or intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or services sold in an otherwise valid transaction. in the event a dispute between a cardholder and a merchant is not resolved in favor of the merchant, the transaction is normally charged back to the merchant, and the purchase price is credited or otherwise refunded to the cardholder. failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud would increase fis' 28 table of contents chargebacks or other liability. increases in chargebacks or other liability could have a material adverse effect on fis' business, financial condition and results of operations following the acquisition. this business is also subject to risk associated with the financial stability of its merchant clients. following the worldpay acquisition, worldpay, as a subsidiary of fis, continues to be a party to a tax receivable agreement ("tra") and the amounts the company and its subsidiaries may be required to pay under the tra and certain related agreements are expected to be significant. in certain cases, payments under the tra may be accelerated and/or significantly exceed the actual benefits fis realizes in respect of the tax attributes subject to the tra. as result of the worldpay acquisition, fis assumed a contingent liability pursuant to an existing tra with fifth third bank. as of december 31, 2019, the company has a liability recorded of approximately $564 million associated with the tra. it is possible that future transactions or events, including changes in tax rates, could increase or decrease the actual tax benefits realized and the corresponding tra payments. in december 2019, the company entered into a tax receivable purchase addendum (the "amendment") that provides written call and put options (collectively "the options") to terminate certain future obligations under the tra for fixed cash payments. with respect to obligations not subject to the amendment or for which the options are not exercised, the tra provides that, upon certain mergers, asset sales, other forms of business combination or certain other changes of control, fis' obligations to make payments with respect to tax benefits would be based on certain assumptions, including that fis would have sufficient taxable income to fully use net operating losses ("nols") or deductions arising from increased tax basis of assets. as a result, fis could be required to make payments under the tra that are greater than 85% of actual tax savings. if the irs challenges the tax basis increases or nols that give rise to payments under the tra and the tax basis increases or nols are subsequently disallowed, payments under the tra could exceed our actual tax savings, and the company may not be able to recoup previous payments under the tra or the amendment that were calculated on the assumption that the disallowed tax savings were available. risks related to our indebtedness our existing debt levels and future levels under existing facilities and debt service requirements may adversely affect fis, including our financial condition or business flexibility and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. as of december 31, 2019 , we had total debt of approximately $20.2 billion . this level of debt or any increase in our debt level could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and operational flexibility, including the following: (i) the debt level may cause us to have difficulty borrowing money in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; (ii) our debt level may limit operational flexibility and our ability to pursue business opportunities and implement certain business strategies; (iii) some of our debt has a variable rate of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates; (iv) we have a higher level of debt than some of our competitors or potential competitors, which may cause a competitive disadvantage and may reduce flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including increased competition and vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions ; (v) there are significant maturities on our debt that we may not be able to repay at maturity or that may be refinanced at higher rates; and (vi) if we fail to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding debt or fail to comply with the financial or other restrictive covenants contained in the indenture governing our senior notes, or our credit facility, an event of default could result that could cause all of our debt to become due and payable. we may be adversely affected by changes in libor reporting practices or the method in which libor is determined. as of december 31, 2019 , we had outstanding approximately $600 million of variable debt that was indexed to the london interbank offered rate ("libor"). on july 27, 2017, the fca announced its intention to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit rates for calibration of libor to the administrator of libor after 2021. it is not possible to predict the further effect of the rules or policies of the fca, any changes in the methods by which libor is determined, or any other reforms to libor that may be enacted in the u.k., the e.u. or elsewhere. any such developments may cause libor to perform differently than in the past, or cease to exist. in addition, any other legal or regulatory changes made by the fca, ice benchmark administration limited, the european money markets institute (formerly euribor-ebf), the european commission or any other successor governance or oversight body, or future changes adopted by such body, in the method by which libor is determined or the transition from libor to a successor benchmark rate may result in, among other things, a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in libor, a delay in the publication of libor, and changes in the rules or methodologies in libor, which may discourage market participants from continuing to administer or to participate in libor's determination, 29 table of contents and, in certain situations, could result in libor no longer being determined and published. if a published u.s. dollar libor rate is unavailable after 2021, the interest rates on our debt which is indexed to libor will be determined using various alternative methods, any of which may result in interest obligations which are more than or do not otherwise correlate over time with the payments that would have been made on such debt if u.s. dollar libor was available in its current form. further, the same costs and risks that may lead to the discontinuation or unavailability of u.s. dollar libor may make one or more of the alternative methods impossible or impracticable to determine. any of these proposals or consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financing costs. our euro- and gbp-denominated indebtedness has increased in recent years; accordingly, we have increased exposure to fluctuations in the euro-usd and gbp-usd exchange rates, which could negatively affect our cost to service or refinance our euro- and gbp-denominated debt securities. in recent years, our indebtedness denominated in euro or gbp has significantly increased as a result of our issuance of senior notes of varying maturities and our issuance of euro-denominated commercial paper. at december 31, 2019 , the company had outstanding approximately 8.3 billion aggregate principal amount of euro-denominated senior notes, approximately 2.2 billion aggregate principal amount of euro-denominated commercial paper and approximately 1.9 billion aggregate principal amount of gbp-denominated senior notes, or the combined equivalent of approximately $14.2 billion aggregate principal amount. following the acquisition of worldpay, we have increased our revenue and cash flows denominated in euro and gbp. although we currently have substantial available cash flows in excess of the projected debt service requirements on our existing euro and gbp-denominated debt, we cannot assure that we will be always be able to continue generating earnings in euros and gbp in amounts sufficient, taking into account the funding requirements and other needs of our business, to make payments of interest and/or repayment of principal on our euro and gbp senior debt, or to permit us to economically borrow in those currencies if needed to refinance our existing euro and gbp debt. if our cash flows in euros or gbp are insufficient for such purposes, we may need to exchange u.s. dollars or funds in other currencies to make such payments, which could result in increased costs to us in the event of adverse changes in currency exchange rates. we have utilized and expect to continue to utilize foreign currency forward contracts and other hedges on a limited basis in an effort to mitigate currency risk, but we cannot assure that such hedging arrangements will be effective or will remain available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. in addition, we cannot predict economic and market conditions (including prevailing interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates) at the applicable times when our various series of euro and gbp senior debt are scheduled to mature, nor can there be any assurance that we would be able to refinance any series of our euro and gbp senior debt in those currencies on acceptable terms at any such time, all of which could have an adverse financial impact on us. rising interest rates could increase our borrowing costs. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates to our short-term commercial paper borrowings, revolving credit facility and interest rate derivatives. in the future we may have additional borrowings under existing or new variable-rate debt. increases in interest rates on variable-rate debt would increase our interest expense. a rising interest rate environment could increase the cost of refinancing existing debt and incurring new debt, which could have an adverse effect on our financing costs. credit ratings, if lowered below investment grade, would adversely affect our cost of funds and liquidity. the company maintains investment grade credit ratings from the major u.s. rating agencies on its senior unsecured debt (s&amp;p bbb, moody's baa2, fitch bbb), as well as its commercial paper program (s&amp;p a-2, moody's p-2, fitch f2). failure to maintain investment grade rating levels could adversely affect the company's cost of funds and liquidity and access to certain capital markets, but would not have an adverse effect on the company's ability to access its existing revolving credit facility. please note that a security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, that it may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization, and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. statement regarding forward-looking information the statements contained in this form 10-k or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other statements made by our management that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the u.s. federal securities laws. statements that are not historical facts, including statements about anticipated financial outcomes, including any earnings guidance of the company, business and market conditions, outlook, foreign currency exchange rates, expected dividends and 30 table of contents share repurchases, the company's sales pipeline and anticipated profitability and growth, as well as other statements about our expectations, beliefs, intentions, or strategies regarding the future are forward-looking statements. these statements relate to future events and our future results and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. any statements that refer to beliefs, expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances and other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. in many cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as "may," "will," "should," "expect," "plan," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "predict," "potential," or "continue," or the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements. the risks and uncertainties that forward-looking statements are subject to include the following, without limitation: the risk that the worldpay transaction will not provide the expected benefits or that we will not be able to achieve the cost or revenue synergies anticipated; the risk that the integration of fis and worldpay will be more difficult, time-consuming or expensive than anticipated; the risk of customer loss or other business disruption in connection with the worldpay transaction, or of the loss of key employees; the fact that unforeseen liabilities of fis or worldpay may exist; the risk that other acquired businesses will not be integrated successfully or that the integration will be more costly or more time-consuming and complex than anticipated; the risk that cost savings and other synergies anticipated to be realized from other acquisitions may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; the risks of doing business internationally; changes in general economic, business and political conditions, including the possibility of intensified international hostilities, acts of terrorism, pandemics, changes in either or both the united states and international lending, capital and financial markets and currency fluctuations; the effect of legislative initiatives or proposals, statutory changes, governmental or other applicable regulations and/or changes in industry requirements, including privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations; the risks of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in, or new laws or regulations affecting, the banking, retail and financial services industries or due to financial failures or other setbacks suffered by firms in those industries; changes in the growth rates of the markets for our solutions; failures to adapt our solutions to changes in technology or in the marketplace; internal or external security breaches of our systems, including those relating to unauthorized access, theft, corruption or loss of personal information and computer viruses and other malware affecting our software or platforms, and the reactions of customers, card associations, government regulators and others to any such events; the risk that implementation of software (including software updates) for customers or at customer locations or employee error in monitoring our software and platforms may result in the corruption or loss of data or customer information, interruption of business operations, outages, exposure to liability claims or loss of customers; the reaction of current and potential customers to communications from us or regulators regarding information security, risk management, internal audit or other matters; competitive pressures on pricing related to the decreasing number of community banks in the u.s., the development of new disruptive technologies competing with one or more of our solutions, increasing presence of international competitors in the u.s. market and the entry into the market by global banks and global companies with respect to certain competitive solutions, each of which may have the impact of unbundling individual solutions from a comprehensive suite of solutions we provide to many of our customers; the failure to innovate in order to keep up with new emerging technologies, which could impact our solutions and our ability to attract new, or retain existing, customers; an operational or natural disaster at one of our major operations centers; failure to comply with applicable requirements of payment networks or changes in those requirements; fraud by merchants or bad actors; and other risks detailed elsewhere in this risk factors section and in our other filings with the sec. other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. these forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. except as required by applicable law or regulation, we do not undertake (and expressly disclaim) any obligation and do not intend to publicly update or review any of our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. you should carefully consider the possibility that actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements. 31 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risks market risk we are exposed to market risks primarily from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we periodically use certain derivative financial instruments, including interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward contracts, to manage interest rate and foreign currency risk. we do not use derivatives for trading purposes, to generate income or to engage in speculative activity. interest rate risk in addition to existing cash balances and cash provided by operating activities, we use fixed-rate and variable-rate debt to finance our operations. we are exposed to interest rate risk on these debt obligations and related interest rate swaps. our fixed-rate senior notes (as described in note 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements) represent the majority of our fixed-rate long-term debt obligations as of december 31, 2019 . the carrying value, excluding the fair value of the interest rate swap described below and unamortized discounts, of these senior notes was $16.6 billion as of december 31, 2019 . the fair value of these senior notes was approximately $17.5 billion as of december 31, 2019 . the potential reduction in fair value of the fixed-rate senior notes from a hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates would not be material to the overall fair value of the debt. our variable-rate risk principally relates to borrowings under our u.s. commercial paper program, euro-commercial paper program, revolving credit facility, senior euro floating rate notes (as defined in note 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements) and an interest rate swap on our fixed-rate long-term debt. at december 31, 2019 , our weighted average cost of debt was 1.66% with a weighted average maturity of 6.2 years; 78% of our debt was fixed-rate and the remaining 22% of our debt was variable-rate. a 100 basis point increase in the weighted average interest rate on our variable-rate debt would have increased our 2019 interest expense by $45 million . we performed the foregoing sensitivity analysis based solely on the principal amount of our variable-rate debt as of december 31, 2019 . this sensitivity analysis does not take into account any changes that occurred in the prior 12 months or that may take place in the next 12 months in the amount of our outstanding debt. further, this sensitivity analysis assumes the change in interest rates is applicable for an entire year. for comparison purposes, based on principal amounts of variable-rate debt outstanding as of december 31, 2018 , and calculated in the same manner as set forth above, an increase of 100 basis points in the weighted average interest rate would have increased our annual interest expense by approximately $10 million . as of december 31, 2019 , the following interest rate swap converting the interest rate exposure on our senior euro notes due july 2024 from fixed to variable is outstanding (in millions): bank pays fis pays effective date maturity date notional fixed rate of variable rate of december 21, 2018 july 15, 2024 500 1.100 % 3-month euribor + 0.878% (1) (1) 0.460% in effect as of december 31, 2019 we designated the interest rate swap as a fair value hedge for accounting purposes as described in note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. a 100 basis point increase in the 3-month euribor rate would increase our annual interest expense on this swap by approximately $6 million . foreign currency risk we are exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal business operations. these risks include the translation of local currency balances of foreign subsidiaries, transaction gains and losses associated with intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries and transactions denominated in currencies other than a location's functional currency. we manage the exposure to these risks through a combination of normal operating activities and the use of foreign currency forward contracts and non-derivative and derivative investment hedges. our exposure to foreign currency exchange risks generally arises from our non-u.s. operations, to the extent they are conducted in local currency. changes in foreign currency exchange rates affect translations of revenue denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. during the years ended december 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , we generated approximately 50 table of contents $1,852 million , $1,542 million and $1,821 million , respectively, in revenue denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the major currencies to which our revenue is exposed are the british pound sterling, euro, brazilian real and indian rupee. a 10% move in average exchange rates for these currencies (assuming a simultaneous and immediate 10% change in all of such rates for the relevant period) would have resulted in the following increase or decrease in our reported revenue for the years ended december 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 (in millions): currency 2019 2018 2017 pound sterling $ 87 $ 34 $ 41 euro 31 30 33 real 16 38 39 rupee 11 13 14 total increase or decrease $ 145 $ 115 $ 127 while our results of operations have been impacted by the effects of currency fluctuations, our international operations' revenue and expenses are generally denominated in local currency, which reduces our economic exposure to foreign exchange risk in those jurisdictions. revenue included $70 million and $40 million of unfavorable foreign currency impact during 2019 and 2018 , respectively, resulting from changes in the u.s. dollar. net earnings attributable to fis common stockholders included $2 million and $12 million of unfavorable foreign currency impact during 2019 and 2018 , respectively, resulting from changes in the u.s. dollar. for the full year of 2020, we do not expect a material impact to revenue due to foreign currency translation, although the actual amount of impact is uncertain due to the many factors that affect exchange rates. our foreign exchange risk management policy permits the use of derivative instruments, such as forward contracts and options, to reduce volatility in our results of operations and/or cash flows resulting from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. we do not enter into foreign currency derivative instruments for trading purposes or to engage in speculative activity. we periodically enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge foreign currency exposure to intercompany loans and other balance sheet items. during the second quarter of 2019, we entered into foreign currency forward contracts to reduce the volatility in the company's cash flows due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations during the period leading up to the company's euro- and pound sterling-denominated debt issuances related to the worldpay acquisition, as discussed in note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. the company also utilizes foreign currency denominated debt and cross-currency interest rate swaps designated as net investment hedges in order to reduce the volatility of the net investment value of certain of its euro and pound sterling functional subsidiaries (see note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements). 51 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk based on analysis completed and described below, we do not believe that we are exposed to material market risk from changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates. interest rates. we have an unsecured revolving credit facility and a synthetic lease obligation that have variable interest rates; therefore, we are exposed to the impact of interest rate fluctuations. this risk is somewhat mitigated by our ability to fix the base libor rate for periods of up to six months on our revolving credit facility and by using interest rate swap arrangements. there were no amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility at december 31, 2003, while the balance on our synthetic lease obligation at december 31, 2003 was $22.4 million. we have performed an interest rate sensitivity analysis assuming a 100 basis point increase in libor for the period subsequent to december 31, 2003 for our synthetic lease obligation and the increase in interest expense would not be material. foreign currency exchange rates. approximately 15.5 percent of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2003 and 35.9 percent of our consolidated assets at december 31, 2003 are associated with operations outside of the u.s. the u.s. dollar balance sheets and statements of income for these businesses are subject to currency fluctuations. we are most vulnerable to fluctuations in the brazilian real and the british pound against the u.s. dollar. historically, we have not entered into derivative financial instruments to mitigate this risk, as it has not been cost-effective. the impact of currency fluctuations on profitability has not been significant since both revenues and operating costs of these businesses are denominated in local currency. if the u.s. dollar had a 10 percent higher appreciation against our non-u.s. dollar denominated businesses in 2003, consolidated revenues and operating income would have been reduced by $15.6 million and $0.6 million, respectively. we may use derivative financial instruments in the future if we deem it useful in mitigating an exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. the cumulative translation adjustment, largely related to our investment in our brazilian card processing operation, was a $75.1 million and $113.4 million reduction of shareholders equity at december 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. 34 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk based on analysis completed and described below, we do not believe that we are exposed to material market risk from changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates. interest rates. we have an unsecured revolving credit facility and a synthetic lease obligation that have variable interest rates; therefore, we are exposed to the impact of interest rate fluctuations. this risk is somewhat mitigated by our ability to fix the base libor rate for periods of up to six months on our revolving credit facility and by using interest rate swap arrangements. amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility at december 31, 2004 were $48.6 million, while the balance on our synthetic lease obligation at december 31, 2004 was $22.4 million. we have performed an interest rate sensitivity analysis assuming a 100 basis point increase in libor for our outstanding revolving credit facility borrowings and synthetic lease obligation and the increase in interest expense would be immaterial in 2004 and 2003. foreign currency exchange rates. approximately 15.8 percent of our consolidated revenues for the year ended december 31, 2004 and 37.3 percent of our consolidated assets at december 31, 2004 are associated with operations outside of the u.s. the u.s. dollar balance sheets and statements of income for these businesses are subject to currency fluctuations. we are most vulnerable to fluctuations in the brazilian real and the british pound against the u.s. dollar. historically, we have not entered into derivative financial instruments to mitigate this risk, as it has not been cost-effective. the impact of currency fluctuations on profitability has not been significant since both revenues and operating costs of these businesses are denominated in local currency. if the u.s. dollar had a 10 percent higher appreciation against our non-u.s. dollar denominated businesses, consolidated revenues and operating income would have been reduced by $14.9 million and $1.3 million, respectively, in 2004, and $15.6 million and $0.6 million, respectively, in 2003. we may use derivative financial instruments in the future if we deem it useful in mitigating an exposure to foreign currency exchange rates. the cumulative translation adjustment, largely related to our investment in our brazilian card processing operation, was a $58.6 million and $75.1 million reduction of shareholders equity at december 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 36 table of contents