risk factors 16 risk factors . operating strategy we seek to leverage existing assets and revenue growth to increase operating margins and enhance shareholder value. our operating strategy for accomplishing this goal includes the following: utilize the extensive industry knowledge and experience of our executive management team, integrate waste operations, utilize a decentralized management structure in overseeing day-to-day operations, 4 table of contents improve operating margins through economies of scale, cost efficiencies and asset utilization, achieve high levels of customer satisfaction, and utilize business information systems to improve consistency in financial and operational performance. experienced executive management team. we believe that we have one of the most experienced executive management teams in the solid waste industry. james e. o connor, who has served as our chief executive officer (ceo) since december 1998, also became our chairman in january 2003. he worked at waste management, inc. from 1972 to 1978 and from 1982 to 1998. during that time, he served in various management positions, including senior vice president in 1997 and 1998, and area president of waste management of florida, inc. from 1992 to 1997. mr. o connor has 35 years of experience in the solid waste industry. donald w. slager became our president and chief operating officer (coo) upon our merger with allied in december 2008. prior to the merger, mr. slager worked for allied from 1992 through 2008 and served in various management positions, including president and coo from 2004 through 2008 and executive vice president and coo from 2003 to 2004. from 2001 to 2003, mr. slager served as senior vice president, operations. he held various management positions at allied from 1992 to 2003, and was previously general manager at national waste services, where he served in various management positions since 1985. mr. slager has over 24 years of experience in the solid waste industry. tod c. holmes has served as our chief financial officer (cfo) since august 1998. mr. holmes served as our vice president of finance from june 1998 until august 1998 and as vice president of finance of our former parent company solid waste group from january 1998 until june 1998. from 1987 to 1998, mr. holmes served in various management positions with browning-ferris industries, inc., including vice president, investor relations from 1996 to 1998, divisional vice president, collection operations from 1995 to 1996, divisional vice president and regional controller northern region from 1993 to 1995, and divisional vice president and assistant corporate controller from 1991 to 1993. mr. holmes has over 22 years of experience in the solid waste industry. our regional senior vice presidents have an average of 22 years of experience in the industry. continuing merger integration strategy. on december 5, 2008 we completed our merger with allied. we believe that our merger integration strategy is well underway, and we continue to believe this merger is different from historical attempts to consolidate the waste industry for a number of reasons, including the following: two mature companies. most previous attempts to consolidate the waste industry focused on a roll up strategy often involving relatively young companies solely focused on increasing revenue through acquisitions. our merger with allied involved two mature companies with similar business practices and performance metrics that have been developed and refined over the course of a number of years. we believe that the combination of our maturity and proven business practices and performance metrics has been a critical component of our success in 2009 and will be a critical component of our future success. best practices. our merger also affords us the opportunity to select the best tools and systems and to adopt the best practices of two successful companies. republic had a history of financial discipline evident in the consistent generation of increasing levels of free cash flow. allied was noted for its integrated operations and focus on procurement. we believe that our merger has given us an unique opportunity to combine the strengths of these two successful organizations and create a best-in-class waste management company. timely and focused integration process. we are acutely aware that previous acquisitions in the waste management and other industries failed because of a lack of focus on integration. as such, we began to develop our integration process and strategy in june 2008, long before our merger was consummated. our process identified specific integration related tasks focused on all levels of the 5 table of contents organization, especially our individual business units. we engaged employees at all levels of the company to develop a detailed integration plan and to ensure that each of our employees understands their role in the process. the integration process is well underway and is ahead of schedule. strong operating platform. the merger has created a company with a strong, national operating platform. the foundation of this platform is our large network of disposal sites. this disposal network provides us with a far stronger vertically integrated operating structure than either company would have been able to achieve on its own. we believe that our improved vertically integrated operations will be a key driver of our future profitability. complementary operations and cultures. the overlay of our operating locations reflects another compelling attribute of our merger. republic and allied operated complementary geographies and shared very similar cultures that are centered on a commitment to providing industry-leading solid waste and environmental services that exceed our customers highest expectations. significant synergies. prior to the effective date of our merger with allied, we identified $150 million of annual run-rate integration synergies. we also developed a detailed plan for realizing this goal that includes participation at all levels throughout the company from the drivers of our fleet of collection vehicles to our board of directors. this plan anticipated achieving $100 million of annual run-rate integration synergies by the end of fiscal 2009. as of december 31, 2009, we have already met our original goal of $150 million of run-rate synergies and have increased our total goal for annual run-rate synergies to $165 million to $175 million. we expect to achieve this goal by the end of 2010. strong capital structure. republic enjoys a strong capital structure and investment grade credit ratings post-merger. our combination with allied has created a company that produces substantial annual free cash flow. this strong cash producing characteristic will allow us to pursue our mission of increasing shareholder value by focusing on investing in our business, paying down our debt, funding dividends and reinstituting our share repurchase program. decentralized management structure. we rely on a decentralized management structure to minimize administrative overhead costs and to manage our day-to-day operations more efficiently. our local management has extensive industry experience in growing, operating and managing solid waste companies and has substantial experience in their local geographic markets. each regional management team includes a senior vice president, vice president-controller, vice president of human resources, vice president of sales, vice president of operations support, director of safety, director of engineering and environmental management, and director of market planning and development. we believe that our strong regional management teams allow us to more effectively and efficiently drive our initiatives and help ensure consistency throughout our organization. our regional management teams and our area presidents have extensive authority, responsibility and autonomy for operations within their respective geographic markets. compensation for our area management teams is primarily based on improving operating income produced and the free cash flow and return on invested capital generated in each manager geographic area of responsibility. in addition, through long-term incentive programs, including stock options, we believe we have achieved one of the lowest turnover levels in the industry for our local management teams. as a result of retaining experienced managers with extensive knowledge of and involvement in their local communities, we are proactive in anticipating our customers needs and adjusting to changes in our markets. we also seek to implement the best practices of our various regions and areas throughout our operations to improve operating margins. integrated operations. we seek to achieve a high rate of internalization by controlling waste streams from the point of collection through disposal. we expect that our fully integrated markets generally will have a lower cost of operations and more favorable cash flows than our non-integrated markets. through acquisitions, landfill operating agreements and other market development activities, we create market-specific, integrated operations typically consisting of one or more collection companies, transfer stations and landfills. we consider acquiring companies that own or operate landfills with significant permitted disposal capacity and appropriate levels of waste volume. we also seek to acquire solid waste collection companies in markets in which we own or operate landfills. in addition, we generate internal growth in our disposal operations by developing new landfills and expanding our existing landfills from time to time in markets in which we have 6 table of contents significant collection operations or in markets that we determine lack sufficient disposal capacity. during the years ended december 31, 2009 and 2008, approximately 68% and 58%, respectively, of the total waste volume that we collected was disposed at landfill sites that we own or operate (internalization). this increase in internalization is due to a higher concentration of integrated hauling and landfill operations acquired in our merger with allied. in a number of our larger markets, we and our competitors are required to take waste to government-controlled disposal facilities (flow-control). this provides us with an opportunity to effectively compete in these markets without investing in landfill capacity. because we do not have landfill facilities or government-controlled disposal facilities for all markets in which we provide collection services, we believe that landfill and transfer station acquisitions, operating agreements, and market development give us the opportunity to increase our waste internalization rate and further integrate our operations. by further integrating operations in existing markets, we may be able to reduce our disposal costs. economies of scale, cost efficiencies and asset utilization. we continue to identify and implement best practices throughout our organization with the goal of permanently improving overall operating and financial results. these best practice initiatives focus on critical areas of our operations such as landfill operations, truck routing, maintenance and related service efficiencies, purchasing and administrative activities. the consolidation of acquired businesses into existing operations reduces costs by decreasing capital and expenses used for truck routing, personnel, equipment and vehicle maintenance, inventories and back-office administration. generally, we consolidate our acquired administrative centers to reduce our general and administrative costs. of particular benefit are the opportunities associated with the blending of operations as a result of the allied merger. scheduled for full completion by the first half of 2010, these markets offer the potential for marked improvement in operating results. generally speaking, there are significant opportunities in these markets to leverage economies of scale and the existing asset base, while realizing improved operating efficiencies. upon the completion of the integration of allied, our goal is to maintain our selling, general and administrative costs at no more than 10.0% of revenue, which we believe is appropriate given our existing business platform. in addition, our procurement initiatives ensure that we negotiate the best volume discounts for goods and services purchased, including waste disposal rates at landfills operated by third parties. furthermore, we have taken steps to maximize the utilization of our assets. for example, to reduce the number of collection vehicles and maximize the efficiency of our fleet and drivers, we use a route optimization program to minimize drive times and improve operating density. by using assets more efficiently, operating expenses can be reduced. high levels of customer satisfaction. we strive to provide the highest level of service to our customer base. our policy is to periodically visit each commercial account to ensure customer satisfaction and to verify that we are providing the appropriate level of service. in addition to visiting existing customers, a salesperson develops a base of prospective customers within each market. we also have municipal marketing representatives in most service areas that are responsible for working with each municipality or community to which we provide residential service to ensure customer satisfaction. additionally, the municipal representatives organize and drive the effort to obtain new or renew municipal contracts in their service areas. focus on systems utilization. we continue to invest in the integration and expansion of our information systems and technology platform. our future platform will consist of best-in-class legacy systems from both republic and allied. during 2009, we converted the entire company to a single payable and general ledger system. additionally, we made significant progress in converting to a single operating system. we expect to complete our operating system conversion by the third quarter of 2010. in addition, during january 2010, we converted the entire company to a single payroll and human resource system. our future technology related initiatives will include customer relationship management, billing, productivity and maintenance systems. we believe that the combination of these systems will prove to be a competitive advantage for our company. for certain risks related to our operating strategy, see item 1a. risk factors. 7 table of contents growth strategy our growth strategy focuses on increasing revenue, gaining market share and enhancing shareholder value through internal growth and acquisitions. we manage our growth strategy as follows: internal growth. our internal growth strategy focuses on retaining existing customers and obtaining new commercial, municipal and industrial customers through our well-managed sales and marketing activities. pricing activities. we seek to secure price increases necessary to offset increased costs, to improve our operating margins and to obtain adequate returns on our substantial investments in assets such as our landfills. during 2009, we continued to secure broad-based price increases across all lines of our business to offset various escalating capital and operating costs. price increases will remain a major component of our overall future operating strategy. long-term contracts. we seek to obtain long-term contracts for collecting solid waste in markets with growing populations. these include exclusive franchise agreements with municipalities as well as commercial and industrial contracts. by obtaining such long-term agreements, we have the opportunity to grow our contracted revenue base at the same rate as the underlying population growth in these markets. we believe it is important to have secured exclusive, long-term franchise agreements in growing market areas. we believe that this positions us to experience internal growth rates that are generally higher than our industry overall growth rate. in addition, we believe that by securing a base of long-term recurring revenue in growing population markets, we are better able to protect our market position from competition and our business may be less susceptible to downturns in economic conditions. sales and marketing activities. we seek to manage our sales and marketing activities to enable us to capitalize on our leading position in many of the markets in which we operate. we provide a national accounts program in response to the needs of our national clients, centralizing services to effectively manage their needs, such as minimizing their procurement costs. we currently have approximately 1,000 sales and marketing employees in the field who are compensated using a commission structure that is focused on generating high levels of quality revenue. for the most part, these employees directly solicit business from existing and prospective commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers. we emphasize our rate and cost structures when we train new and existing sales personnel. in addition, we utilize a customer relationship management system that assists our sales people in tracking leads. it also tracks renewal periods for potential commercial, industrial and franchise contracts. development activities. we seek to identify opportunities to further our position as an integrated service provider in markets where we provide services for a portion of the waste stream. where appropriate, we seek to obtain permits to build transfer stations, recycling facilities, and landfills that would provide vertically integrated waste services or expand the service areas for our existing disposal sites. development projects, while generally less capital intensive than acquiring such projects, typically require extensive permitting efforts that can take years to complete with no assurance of success. we undertake development projects when we believe there is a reasonable probability of success and where reasonably priced acquisition opportunities are not available. acquisition growth. we look to acquire businesses that complement our existing business platform. our acquisition growth strategy focuses primarily on privately held solid waste companies and the waste operations of municipal and other local governmental authorities. we believe that our ability to acquire privately held companies is enhanced by increasing competition in the solid waste industry, increasing capital requirements as a result of changes in solid waste regulatory requirements, and the limited number of exit strategies for these privately held companies owners. we also seek to acquire operations and facilities from municipalities that are privatizing, as they seek to increase available capital and reduce risk. in addition, we will continue to evaluate opportunities to acquire operations and facilities that are being divested by other publicly owned waste companies. in sum, our acquisition growth strategy focuses primarily on the following: acquiring privately held businesses that position us for growth in existing and new markets, acquiring well-managed companies and, when appropriate, retaining local management, and 8 table of contents acquiring operations and facilities from municipalities that are privatizing and from publicly owned companies that are divesting of assets. we also seek to acquire landfills, transfer stations and collection companies that operate in markets that we are already servicing in order to fully integrate our operations from collection to disposal. in addition, we have in the past and may continue in the future to exchange businesses with other solid waste companies if by doing so there is a net benefit to our business platform. these activities allow us to increase our revenue and market share, lower our cost of operations as a percentage of revenue, and consolidate duplicative facilities and functions to maximize cost efficiencies and economies of scale. for certain risks related to our growth strategy, see item 1a. risk factors. operations our operations primarily consist of the collection, transfer and disposal of non-hazardous solid waste. collection services. we provide solid waste collection services to commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers through 376 collection companies. in 2009, 76.9% of our revenue was derived from collection services. within the collection line of business, 35% of our revenue is from services provided to municipal and residential customers, 40% is from services provided to commercial customers, and 25% is from services provided to industrial and other customers. our residential collection operations involve the curbside collection of refuse from small containers into collection vehicles for transport to transfer stations or directly to landfills. residential solid waste collection services are typically performed under contracts with municipalities, which we generally secure by competitive bid and which give us exclusive rights to service all or a portion of the homes in their respective jurisdictions. these contracts or franchises usually range in duration from one to five years, although some of our exclusive franchises are for significantly longer periods. residential solid waste collection services may also be performed on a subscription basis, in which individual households contract directly with us. the fees received for subscription residential collection are based primarily on market factors, frequency and type of service, the distance to the disposal facility and the cost of disposal. in general, subscription residential collection fees are paid quarterly in advance by the residential customers receiving the service. in our commercial and industrial collection operations, we supply our customers with waste containers of varying sizes. we also rent compactors to large waste generators. commercial collection services are generally performed under one- to three-year service agreements, and fees are determined by considerations such as market factors, collection frequency, type of equipment furnished, the type and volume or weight of the waste collected, transportation costs, the distance to the disposal facility, and the cost of disposal. we also provide waste collection services to industrial and construction facilities on a contractual basis with terms ranging from a single pickup to one year or longer. our construction services are provided to the commercial construction and home building sectors. we collect the containers or compacted waste and transport the waste either to a landfill or a transfer station for disposal. we also provide recycling services in certain markets in compliance with local laws or the terms of our franchise agreements. these services include the curbside collection of residential recyclable waste and the provision of a variety of recycling services to commercial and industrial customers. transfer and disposal services. we own or operate 223 transfer stations. we deposit waste at these transfer stations, as do other private haulers and municipal haulers, for compaction and transfer to trailers for transport to disposal sites or recycling facilities. in 2009, transfer and disposal services accounted for 18.9% of our revenue. as of december 31, 2009, we owned or operated 192 active landfills, which had approximately 35,000 permitted acres and total available permitted and probable expansion disposal capacity of approximately 4.6 billion in-place cubic yards. the in-place capacity of our landfills is subject to change based on engineering factors, requirements of regulatory authorities, our ability to continue to operate our landfills in compliance with applicable regulations, and our ability to successfully renew operating permits and obtain 9 table of contents expansion permits at our sites. some of our landfills accept non-hazardous special waste, including utility ash, asbestos and contaminated soils. most of our active landfill sites have the potential for expanded disposal capacity beyond the currently permitted acreage. we monitor the availability of permitted disposal capacity at each of our landfills and evaluate whether to pursue an expansion at a given landfill based on estimated future waste volumes and prices, market needs, remaining capacity and likelihood of obtaining an expansion. to satisfy future disposal demand, we are currently seeking to expand permitted capacity at certain of our landfills. however, we cannot assure you that all proposed or future expansions will be permitted as designed. we also have responsibility for 132 closed landfills, for which we have associated closure and post-closure obligations. landfill gas and renewable energy projects. during 2009, we brought eleven landfill gas-to-energy projects on line, bringing our total number of such projects to 74 or over one third of our active landfills. these projects consist of the following: 51 electric generating plants powered by landfill gas, 14 medium btu plants that provide landfill gas to industrial users, 6 high btu plants that produce pipeline quality gas, and 3 projects that use landfill gas to power leachate evaporating equipment. our 51 electric projects generate 323 megawatts of electricity, enough to power approximately 192,000 homes. our 23 other projects provide or process more than 58,000 square cubic feet per minute of gas, enough to heat almost 200,000 homes. the environmental benefit of all of our projects combined is the equivalent of removing nearly 4 million cars from the road. during 2009, we also combined a first-of-its-kind solar technology with an existing gas-to-energy system which turned our tessman road landfill in san antonio, texas into a sustainable energy park. a closed portion of the landfill is now capped with a solar energy cover, developed by republic, which generates electricity for homes and businesses in the surrounding area. we expect to install a similar system at one or more of our landfills during 2010. many of our landfills that do not have gas-to-energy or renewable energy projects are capable of supporting such projects. as a result, we intend to bring several of these projects on line each year for many years to come. recycling facilities and other services. we own or operate 78 materials recovery facilities and other recycling operations. these facilities sort recyclable paper, aluminum, glass and other materials. most of these recyclable materials are internally collected by our residential collection operations. in some areas, we receive commercial and industrial solid waste that is sorted at our facilities into recyclable materials and non-recyclable waste. the recyclable materials are salvaged, repackaged and sold to third parties, and the non-recyclable waste is disposed of at landfills or incinerators. sales and marketing we seek to provide quality services that will enable us to maintain high levels of customer satisfaction. we derive our business from a broad customer base, which we believe will enable us to experience stable growth. we focus our marketing efforts on continuing and expanding our business with existing customers, as well as attracting new customers. we employ approximately 1,000 sales and marketing employees. our sales and marketing strategy is to provide high-quality, comprehensive solid waste collection, recycling, transfer and disposal services to our customers at competitive prices. we target potential customers of all sizes, from small quantity generators to large fortune 500 companies and municipalities. 10 table of contents most of our marketing activity is local in nature. however, we also provide a national accounts program in response to the needs of some of our national and regional customers. our national accounts program is designed to provide the best total solution to our customers evolving waste management needs in an environmentally responsible manner. we partner with our national clients to reach their sustainability goals, optimize waste streams, balance equipment and service intervals, and provide customized reporting. the national accounts program centralizes services to effectively manage customer needs, while helping minimize procurement costs. with our extended geographic reach, our national accounts program effectively serves 40 states and puerto rico. as industry leaders, our mission is to utilize our strengths and expertise to exceed customer expectations by consistently delivering the best national program available. we generally do not change the trade names of the local businesses we acquire, and therefore we do not operate nationally under any one mark or trade name. customers we provide services to a broad base of commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers. no one customer has individually accounted for more than 5% of our consolidated revenue or of our reportable segment revenue in any of the last three years. competition we operate in a highly competitive industry. entry into our business and the ability to operate profitably in the industry require substantial amounts of capital and managerial experience. competition in the non-hazardous solid waste industry comes from a few large, national publicly owned companies, including waste management, inc., several regional publicly and privately owned solid waste companies, and thousands of small privately owned companies. in any given market, competitors may have larger operations and greater resources. in addition to national and regional firms and numerous local companies, we compete with municipalities that maintain waste collection or disposal operations. these municipalities may have financial advantages due to the availability of tax revenue and tax-exempt financing. we compete for collection accounts primarily on the basis of price and the quality of our services. from time to time, our competitors may reduce the price of their services in an effort to expand market share or to win a competitively bid municipal contract. our ability to increase prices in certain markets may be impacted by the pricing policies of our competitors. this may have an impact on our future revenue and profitability. seasonality and severe weather our operations can be adversely affected by periods of inclement or severe weather, which could increase the volume of waste collected under our existing contracts (without corresponding compensation), delay the collection and disposal of waste, reduce the volume of waste delivered to our disposal sites, or delay the construction or expansion of our landfill sites and other facilities. regulation our facilities and operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local requirements that regulate the environment, public health, safety, zoning and land use. operating and other permits, licenses and other approvals generally are required for landfills and transfer stations, certain solid waste collection vehicles, fuel storage tanks and other facilities that we own or operate. these permits are subject to denial, revocation, modification and renewal in certain circumstances. federal, state and local laws and regulations vary, but generally govern wastewater or storm water discharges, air emissions, the handling, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, and the remediation of contamination associated with the release or threatened release of hazardous substances. these laws and regulations provide governmental authorities with strict powers of enforcement, which include the ability to revoke or decline to renew any of our operating permits, obtain injunctions, or impose fines or penalties in the case of violations, including 11 table of contents criminal penalties. the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) and various other federal, state and local authorities administer these regulations. we strive to conduct our operations in compliance with applicable laws, regulations and permits. however, in the existing climate of heightened environmental concerns, from time to time we have been issued citations or notices from governmental authorities that have resulted in the need to expend funds for remedial work and related activities at various landfills and other facilities. we cannot assure you that citations and notices will not be issued in the future despite our regulatory compliance efforts. we have established final capping, closure, post-closure and remediation liabilities that we believe, based on currently available information, will be adequate to cover our current estimates of regulatory costs. however, we cannot assure you that actual costs will not exceed our reserves. refer to the contractual obligations table within item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained elsewhere herein for further information. federal regulation. the following summarizes the primary federal environmental and occupational health and safety-related statutes that affect our facilities and operations: the solid waste disposal act, including the resource conservation and recovery act (rcra). rcra establishes a framework for regulating the handling, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous solid waste, and requires states to develop programs to ensure the safe disposal of solid waste in sanitary landfills. subtitle d of rcra establishes a framework for regulating the disposal of municipal solid waste. regulations under subtitle d currently include minimum comprehensive solid waste management criteria and guidelines, including location restrictions, facility design and operating criteria, final capping, closure and post-closure requirements, financial assurance standards, groundwater monitoring requirements and corrective action standards, many of which had not commonly been in effect or enforced in the past in connection with municipal solid waste landfills. each state was required to submit to the epa a permit program designed to implement subtitle d regulations by april 9, 1993. all of the states in which we operate have implemented permit programs pursuant to rcra and subtitle d. these state permit programs may include landfill requirements which are more stringent than those of subtitle d. our failure to comply with the environmental requirements of federal, state and local authorities at any of our locations may lead to temporary or permanent loss of an operating permit. all of our planned landfill expansions and new landfill development projects have been engineered to meet or exceed subtitle d requirements. operating and design criteria for existing operations have been modified to comply with these regulations. compliance with subtitle d regulations has resulted in increased costs and may in the future require substantial additional expenditures in addition to other costs normally associated with our waste management activities. the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act of 1980 (cercla). cercla, among other things, provides for the cleanup of sites from which there is a release or threatened release of a hazardous substance into the environment. cercla may impose strict joint and several liability for the costs of cleanup and for damages to natural resources upon current owners and operators of a site, parties who were owners or operators of a site at the time the hazardous substances were disposed of, parties who transported the hazardous substances to a site and parties who arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances at a site. under the authority of cercla and its implementing regulations, detailed requirements apply to the manner and degree of investigation and remediation of facilities and sites where hazardous substances have been or are threatened to be released into the environment. liability under cercla is not dependent on the existence or disposal of only hazardous wastes, but can also be based upon the existence of small quantities of more than 700 substances characterized by the epa as hazardous, many of which are found in common household waste. among other things, cercla authorizes the federal government to investigate and remediate sites at which hazardous substances have been or are threatened to be released into the environment or to order (or offer an opportunity to) persons potentially liable for the cleanup of the hazardous substances to do so. 12 table of contents in addition, the epa has established a national priorities list of sites at which hazardous substances have been or are threatened to be released and which require investigation or cleanup. cercla liability is strict liability. it can be founded upon the release or threatened release, even as a result of unintentional, non-negligent or lawful action, of hazardous substances, including very small quantities of such substances. thus, even if we have never knowingly transported or received hazardous waste, it is likely that hazardous substances have been deposited or released at landfills or other properties owned by third parties where we have transported to and disposed of waste or at our landfills or at other properties that we currently own or operate or may have owned or operated. therefore, we could be liable under cercla for the cost of cleaning up such hazardous substances at such sites and for damages to natural resources, even if those substances were deposited at our facilities before we acquired or operated them. the costs of a cercla cleanup can be very expensive. given the difficulty of obtaining insurance for environmental impairment liability, such liability could have a material impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the federal water pollution control act of 1972 (the clean water act). this act regulates the discharge of pollutants from a variety of sources, including solid waste disposal sites, into streams, rivers and other waters of the united states. point source runoff from our landfills and transfer stations that is discharged into surface waters must be covered by discharge permits that generally require us to conduct sampling and monitoring, and, under certain circumstances, reduce the quantity of pollutants in those discharges. storm water discharge regulations under the clean water act require a permit for certain construction activities and discharges from industrial operations and facilities, which may affect our operations. if a landfill or transfer station discharges wastewater through a sewage system to a publicly owned treatment works, the facility must comply with discharge limits imposed by that treatment works. in addition, states may adopt groundwater protection programs under the clean water act or the safe drinking water act that could affect solid waste landfills. furthermore, development which alters or affects wetlands generally must be permitted prior to such development commencing, and permitting agencies may require mitigation. the clean air act. the clean air act imposes limitations on emissions from various sources, including landfills. in march 1996, the epa promulgated regulations that require large municipal solid waste landfills to install landfill gas monitoring systems. these regulations apply to landfills that commenced construction, reconstruction or modification on or after may 30, 1991, and, principally, to landfills that can accommodate 2.5 million cubic meters or more of municipal solid waste. the regulations apply whether the landfill is active or closed. the date by which each affected landfill is required to have a gas collection and control system installed and made operational varies depending on calculated emission rates at the landfill. efforts to curtail the emission of greenhouse gases and to ameliorate the effect of climate change may require our landfills to deploy more stringent emission controls, with resulting capital or operating costs. see item 1a. risk factors regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could impose costs on our operations, the magnitude of which we cannot yet estimate. many state regulatory agencies also currently require monitoring systems for the collection and control of certain landfill gas. the occupational safety and health act of 1970 (osha). osha authorizes the occupational safety and health administration of the u.s. department of labor to promulgate occupational safety and health standards. a number of these standards, including standards for notices of hazardous chemicals and the handling of asbestos, apply to our facilities and operations. state and local regulation. each state in which we operate has its own laws and regulations governing solid waste disposal, water and air pollution, and, in most cases, releases and cleanup of hazardous substances and liabilities for such matters. states also have adopted regulations governing the design, operation, maintenance and closure of landfills and transfer stations. some counties, municipalities and other local governments have adopted similar laws and regulations. our facilities and operations are likely to be subject to these types of requirements. in addition, our solid waste collection and landfill operations may be affected by the trend in many states toward requiring the development of solid waste reduction and recycling programs. for example, several states have enacted laws that require counties or municipalities to adopt comprehensive plans to reduce, through solid waste planning, composting, recycling or other programs, the volume of solid waste deposited in 13 table of contents landfills. additionally, laws and regulations restricting the disposal of certain waste in solid waste landfills, including yard waste, newspapers, beverage containers, unshredded tires, lead-acid batteries, electronic wastes and household appliances, have been promulgated in several states and are being considered in others. legislative and regulatory measures to mandate or encourage waste reduction at the source and waste recycling also have been or are under consideration by the u.s. congress and the epa. to construct, operate and expand a landfill, we must obtain one or more construction or operating permits, as well as zoning and land use approvals. these permits and approvals may be difficult and time-consuming to obtain and to operate in compliance with, are often opposed by neighboring landowners and citizens groups, may be subject to periodic renewal, and are subject to denial, modification, non-renewal and revocation by the issuing agency. in connection with our acquisition of existing landfills, we may be required to expend considerable time, effort and money to bring the acquired facilities into compliance with applicable requirements and to obtain the permits and approvals necessary to increase their capacity. other regulations. many of our facilities own and operate underground storage tanks that are generally used to store petroleum-based products. these tanks are generally subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that mandate their periodic testing, upgrading, closure and removal, and that, in the event of leaks, require that polluted groundwater and soils be remediated. we believe that all of our underground storage tanks currently meet all applicable regulations. if underground storage tanks we own or operate leak, we could be liable for response costs and, if the leakage migrates onto the property of others, we could be liable for damages to third parties. we are unaware of facts indicating that issues of compliance with regulations related to underground storage tanks will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. with regard to our solid waste transportation operations, we are subject to the jurisdiction of the surface transportation board and are regulated by the federal highway administration, office of motor carriers, and by regulatory agencies in states that regulate such matters. various states and local government authorities have enacted or promulgated, or are considering enacting or promulgating, laws and regulations that would restrict the transportation of solid waste across state, county, or other jurisdiction lines. in 1978, the u.s. supreme court ruled that a law that restricts the importation of out-of-state solid waste was unconstitutional; however, states have attempted to distinguish proposed laws from those involved in and implicated by that ruling. in 1994, the supreme court ruled that a flow control law, which attempted to restrict solid waste from leaving its place of generation, imposed an impermissible burden upon interstate commerce, and, therefore, was unconstitutional. in 2007, the supreme court upheld the right of a local government to direct the flow of solid waste to a publicly owned waste facility. a number of county and other local jurisdictions have enacted ordinances or other regulations restricting the free movement of solid waste across jurisdictional boundaries. other governments may enact similar regulations in the future. these regulations may, in some cases, cause a decline in volumes of waste delivered to our landfills or transfer stations and may increase our costs of disposal, thereby adversely affecting our operations. liabilities established for landfill and environmental costs. we have established liabilities for landfill and environmental costs, which include landfill site final capping, closure and post-closure costs. we periodically reassess such costs based on various methods and assumptions regarding landfill airspace and the technical requirements of subtitle d of rcra, and we adjust our rates used to expense final capping, closure and post-closure costs accordingly. based on current information and regulatory requirements, we believe that our liabilities recorded for such landfill and environmental expenditures are adequate. however, environmental laws may change, and we cannot assure you that our recorded liabilities will be adequate to cover requirements under existing or new environmental laws and regulations, future changes or interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or adverse environmental conditions previously unknown to us. liability insurance and bonding the nature of our business exposes us to the risk of liabilities arising out of our operations, including possible damages to the environment. such potential liabilities could involve, for example, claims for remediation costs, personal injury, property damage and damage to the environment in cases where we may be held 14 table of contents responsible for the escape of harmful materials; claims of employees, customers or third parties for personal injury or property damage occurring in the course of our operations; or claims alleging negligence or other wrongdoing in the planning or performance of work. we could also be subject to fines and civil and criminal penalties in connection with alleged violations of regulatory requirements. because of the nature and scope of the possible environmental damages, liabilities imposed in environmental litigation can be significant. our solid waste operations have third party environmental liability insurance with limits in excess of those required by permit regulations, subject to certain limitations and exclusions. however, we cannot assure you that such environmental liability insurance would be adequate, in scope or amount, in the event of a major loss, nor can we assure you that we would continue to carry excess environmental liability insurance should market conditions in the insurance industry make such coverage costs prohibitive. we have general liability, vehicle liability, employment practices liability, pollution liability, directors and officers liability, workers compensation and employer liability coverage, as well as umbrella liability policies to provide excess coverage over the underlying limits contained in these primary policies. we also carry property insurance. although we try to operate safely and prudently and we have, subject to limitations and exclusions, substantial liability insurance, we cannot assure you that we will not be exposed to uninsured liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our insurance programs for workers compensation, general liability, vehicle liability and employee-related health care benefits are effectively self-insured. claims in excess of self-insurance levels are insured subject to the excess policy limits and exclusions. accruals are based on claims filed and actuarial estimates of claims development and claims incurred but not reported. due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we have experienced, and may experience in the future, increased self-insurance retention levels and increased premiums. as we assume more risk for self-insurance through higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in our self-insurance reserves and expense. in the normal course of business, we post performance bonds, insurance policies, letters of credit, or cash or marketable securities deposits in connection with municipal residential collection contracts, the operation, closure or post-closure of landfills, environmental remediation, environmental permits, and business licenses and permits as a financial guarantee of our performance. to date, we have satisfied financial responsibility requirements by making cash or marketable securities deposits or by obtaining bank letters of credit, insurance policies or surety bonds. employees as of december 31, 2009, we employed approximately 31,000 full-time employees, approximately 27% of whom were covered by collective bargaining agreements. from time to time, our operating locations may experience union organizing efforts. we have not historically experienced any significant work stoppages. we currently have no disputes or bargaining circumstances that we believe could cause significant disruptions in our business. our management believes that we have good relations with our employees. availability of reports and other information our corporate website is http://www.republicservices.com. we make available on this website, free of charge, access to our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy statements on schedule 14a and amendments to those materials filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities and exchange act of 1934. we make such materials available as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically submit them to the securities and exchange commission (sec). our corporate website also contains our corporate governance guidelines, code of ethics and charters of the nominating and corporate governance committee, audit committee and compensation committee of the board of directors. in addition, the sec website is http://www.sec.gov. the sec makes available on this website, free of charge, reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, such as us, that file electronically with the sec. information on our website or the sec website is not part of this annual report on form 10-k. we intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements under item 5.05 of 15 table of contents form 8-k and applicable new york stock exchange (nyse) rules regarding amendments to or waivers of our code of ethics by posting this information on our website at www.republicservices.com . item 1a. risk factors this annual report on form 10-k contains certain forward-looking information about us that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. words such as expect, will, may, anticipate, plan, estimate, project, intend, should, can, likely, could and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. these statements include statements about the expected benefits of the merger, our plans, strategies and prospects. forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. these statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of our management and are subject to risk and uncertainties, including the risks set forth below in these risk factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. in light of these risks, uncertainties, assumptions and factors, the results anticipated by the forward-looking statements discussed in this annual report on form 10-k may not occur. you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this annual report on form 10-k. except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, we undertake no obligation to update or publish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this annual report on form 10-k or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. we have substantial indebtedness, which may limit our financial flexibility. as of december 31, 2009, we had approximately $7.4 billion in principal value of debt and capital leases outstanding. this amount of indebtedness and our debt service requirements may limit our financial flexibility to access additional capital and make capital expenditures and other investments in our business, to withstand economic downturns and interest rate increases, to plan for or react to changes in our business and our industry, and to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants of our debt instruments. further, our ability to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in our debt instruments may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions or other events that are beyond our control. if we do not comply with these covenants and restrictions, we may be required to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, reducing dividends, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of our existing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. the downturn in the u.s. economy may continue to have an adverse impact on our operating results. a weak economy generally results in decreases in the volumes of waste generated. in 2009, weakness in the u.s. economy had a negative effect on our revenue, operating results and operating cash flows. the current and previous economic slowdowns have negatively impacted the portion of our collection business servicing the manufacturing and construction industries and our proceeds from sales of recycled commodities. as a result of the global economic crisis, we may experience the negative effects of increased competitive pricing pressure and customer turnover as well. we cannot assure you that worsening economic conditions or a prolonged or recurring recession will not have a significant adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. further, we cannot assure you that an improvement in economic conditions will result in an immediate, or any, improvement in our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the downturn in the u.s. economy may expose us to credit risk for amounts due from governmental agencies, large national accounts and others. the weak u.s. economy has reduced the amount of taxes collected by various governmental agencies. we provide services to a number of these agencies including numerous municipalities. these governmental agencies may suffer financial difficulties resulting from a decrease in tax revenue and may ultimately be 16 table of contents unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us. in addition, the weak economy may cause other customers, including our large national accounts, to suffer financial difficulties and ultimately to be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us. this could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the downturn in the u.s. economy and in the financial markets could expose us to counter-party risk associated with our derivatives. to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in various commodities and interest rates, we have entered into a number of derivative agreements. these derivative agreements require us or the counter-party to such agreements to make payments to the other party if the price of certain commodities or interest rates vary from a specified amount. a continued downturn in the u.s. economy or in the financial markets could adversely impact the financial stability of the counter-parties with which we do business, potentially limiting their ability to fulfill their obligations under our derivative agreements. this could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the waste industry is highly competitive and includes competitors that may have greater financial and operational resources, flexibility to reduce prices and other competitive advantages that could make it difficult for us to compete effectively. we principally compete with large national waste management companies, municipalities and numerous regional and local companies for collection and disposal accounts. competition for collection accounts is primarily based on price and the quality of services. competition for disposal business is primarily based on disposal costs, geographic location and quality of operations. some of our competitors may have greater financial and operational resources than us. many counties and municipalities that operate their own waste collection and disposal facilities have the benefits of tax revenue or tax-exempt financing. our ability to obtain solid waste volume for our landfills may also be limited by the fact that some major collection companies also own or operate landfills to which they send their waste. in markets in which we do not own or operate a landfill, our collection operations may operate at a disadvantage to fully integrated competitors. as a result of these factors, we may have difficulty competing effectively from time to time or in certain markets. if we were to lower prices to address these competitive issues, it could negatively impact our revenue growth and profitability. price increases may not be adequate to offset the impact of increased costs and may cause us to lose volume. we seek to secure price increases necessary to offset increased costs (including fuel and environmental costs), to improve operating margins and to obtain adequate returns on our substantial investments in assets such as our landfills. from time to time, our competitors may reduce their prices in an effort to expand their market share. contractual, general economic or market-specific conditions may also limit our ability to raise prices. as a result, we may be unable to offset increases in costs, improve our operating margins and obtain adequate investment returns through price increases. we may also lose volume to lower-cost competitors. increases in the cost of fuel or petrochemicals will increase our operating expenses, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to recover fuel or oil cost increases from our customers. we depend on fuel to run our collection and transfer trucks and other equipment used for collection, transfer, and disposal. we buy fuel in the open market. fuel prices are unpredictable and can fluctuate significantly based on events beyond our control, including geopolitical developments, actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries and other oil and gas producers, supply and demand for oil and gas, war, terrorism and unrest in oil-producing countries, and regional production patterns. we may not be able to offset such volatility through fuel surcharges. for example, our fuel costs were $349.8 million in 2009, representing 7.2% of our cost of operations compared to $235.3 million in 2008, representing 9.7% of our cost of operations . this decrease in fuel costs as a percent of our cost of operations primarily reflects a decrease in the price of fuel. 17 table of contents in order to manage our exposure to volatility in fuel prices, we have entered into multiple swap agreements whereby we receive or make payments to counter-parties if the price of fuel varies from a specified amount. however, we do not hedge our entire fuel usage. during 2009, only 6.4% of our fuel purchases were hedged. over the last several years, regulations have been adopted mandating the reduction of vehicle tail pipe emissions and, in october 2009, the epa indicated it will establish the first u.s. standards for greenhouse gas emissions from automobiles. the regulations could affect the type of fuel our trucks use and could materially increase the cost and consumption of our fuel. our operations also require the use of products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of petrochemicals. an increase in the price of petrochemicals could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs. we are also susceptible to increases in indirect fuel surcharges from our vendors. fluctuations in prices for recycled commodities that we sell to customers may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we process recyclable materials such as paper, cardboard, plastics, aluminum and other metals for sale to third parties. our results of operations may be affected by changing prices or market requirements for recyclable materials. the resale and purchase prices of, and market demand for, recyclable materials can be volatile due to changes in economic conditions and numerous other factors beyond our control. these fluctuations may affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. adverse weather conditions may limit our operations and increase the costs of collection and disposal. our collection and landfill operations could be adversely impacted by extended periods of inclement weather, or by increased severity of weather and climate extremes resulting in the future from climate change, any of which could increase the volume of waste collected under our existing contracts (without corresponding compensation), interfere with collection and landfill operations, delay the development of landfill capacity or reduce the volume of waste generated by our customers. in addition, adverse weather conditions may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect our operating results in the affected regions during those periods. we currently have matters pending with the internal revenue service (the irs ), which could result in large cash expenditures and could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and cash flows. we are currently under examination by the irs with regard to allied federal income tax returns for tax years 2007 and 2008, and allied 2000 through 2006 federal income tax returns are at appeals. republic is under audit for its 2007 and 2008 federal income tax returns, and under examination for its 2008 federal income tax return. during its examination of allied 2002 tax year, the irs asserted that a 2002 redemption of four partnership interests in waste-to-energy businesses should have been recharacterized as disguised sale transactions. this issue is currently before the appeals division of the irs. the company believes its position is supported by relevant technical authorities and strong business purpose and we intend to vigorously defend our position on this matter. the potential tax and interest through december 31, 2009 (to the extent unpaid) have been fully reserved in our consolidated balance sheet. a disallowance would not materially affect our consolidated results of operations; however, a deficiency payment would adversely impact our cash flow in the period the payment was made. the accrual of additional interest charges through the time this matter is resolved will affect our consolidated results of operations. in addition, the successful assertion by the irs of penalty and penalty-related interest in connection with this matter could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, during its examination of allied 2000 through 2003 tax years, the irs proposed that certain landfill costs be allocated to the collection and control of methane gas that is naturally emitted from landfills. the irs position is that the methane gas emitted by a landfill constitutes a joint product resulting from landfill operations and, therefore, associated costs should not be expensed until the methane gas is sold or otherwise disposed. we believe we have several meritorious defenses, including the fact that methane gas is 18 table of contents not actively produced for sale by us but rather arises naturally in the context of providing disposal services. therefore, we believe that the resolution of this issue will not have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. for additional information on these matters, see note 10, income taxes, to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. other matters may also arise in the course of tax audits that could adversely impact our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we may be unable to execute our financial strategy. our ability to execute our financial strategy depends on our ability to maintain investment grade ratings on our senior debt. the credit rating process is contingent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our investment grade ratings in the future. our interest expense would increase and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms may be adversely affected should we fail to maintain investment grade ratings. our financial strategy is also dependent on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to reinvest in our existing business, fund internal growth, acquire other solid waste businesses, pay dividends, reduce indebtedness and minimize borrowings, and take other actions to enhance shareholder value. we cannot assure you that: we will be successful in executing our broad-based pricing program; we will generate sufficient cash flow to execute our financial strategy; we will be able to pay cash dividends at our present rate, that we will be able to increase the amount of such dividends, or that we will be able to reinstitute our share repurchase program. a downgrade in our bond ratings could adversely affect our liquidity by increasing the cost of debt and financial assurance instruments. while downgrades of our bond ratings may not have an immediate impact on our cost of debt or liquidity, they may impact our cost of debt and liquidity over the near to medium term. if the rating agencies downgrade our debt, this may increase the interest rate we must pay to issue new debt, and it may even make it prohibitively expensive for us to issue new debt. if our debt ratings are downgraded, future access to financial assurance markets at a reasonable cost, or at all, also may be adversely impacted. the solid waste industry is a capital-intensive industry and the amount we spend on capital expenditures may exceed current expectations, which could require us to obtain additional funding for our operations or impair our ability to grow our business. our ability to remain competitive and to grow and expand our operations largely depends on our cash flow from operations and access to capital. if our capital efficiency programs are unable to offset the impact of inflation and business growth, it may be necessary to increase the amount we spend. additionally, if we make acquisitions or further expand our operations, the amount we expend on capital, capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation expenditures will increase. our cash needs also will increase if the expenditures for capping, closure, post-closure and remediation activities increase above our current estimates, which may occur over a long period due to changes in federal, state or local government requirements and other factors beyond our control. increases in expenditures would negatively impact our cash flows. over the last several years, regulations have been adopted mandating the reduction of vehicle tail pipe emissions. these regulations have caused some increases in the costs of the collection vehicles we buy. the epa recently has indicated it intends to adopt further regulations addressing greenhouse gas emissions from automobiles. as a result, we could experience an increase in capital costs. this also could cause an increase in vehicle operating costs or a reduction in operating efficiency. we may reduce the number of vehicles we purchase until manufacturers adopt the new standards to increase efficiency. 19 table of contents we may be unable to obtain or maintain required permits or to expand existing permitted capacity of our landfills, which could decrease our revenue and increase our costs. we cannot assure you that we will successfully obtain or maintain the permits we require to operate our business because permits to operate non-hazardous solid waste landfills and to expand the permitted capacity of existing landfills have become more difficult and expensive to obtain and maintain. permits often take years to obtain as a result of numerous hearings and compliance requirements with regard to zoning, environmental and other regulations. these permits are also often subject to resistance from citizen or other groups and other political pressures. local communities and citizen groups, adjacent landowners or governmental agencies may oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we may need, allege violations of the permits under which we currently operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. responding to these challenges has, at times, increased our costs and extended the time associated with establishing new facilities and expanding existing facilities. in addition, failure to receive regulatory and zoning approval may prohibit us from establishing new facilities, maintaining permits for our facilities or expanding existing facilities. our failure to obtain the required permits to operate our non-hazardous solid waste landfills could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, we may have to dispose collected waste at landfills operated by our competitors or haul the waste long distances at a higher cost to one of our landfills, either of which could significantly increase our waste disposal costs. the waste industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and existing or future regulations may restrict our operations, increase our costs of operations or require us to make additional capital expenditures. if we inadequately accrue for landfill capping, closure and post-closure costs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. a landfill must be closed and capped, and post-closure maintenance commenced, once the permitted capacity of the landfill is reached and additional capacity is not authorized. we have significant financial obligations relating to capping, closure and post-closure costs at our existing owned or operated landfills, and will have material financial obligations with respect to any future owned or operated landfills. we establish accruals for the estimated costs associated with capping, closure and post-closure financial obligations. we could underestimate such accruals, and our financial obligations for capping, closure or post-closure costs could exceed the amount accrued or amounts otherwise receivable pursuant to trust funds established for this purpose. such a shortfall could result in significant unanticipated charges to income. additionally, if a landfill is required to be closed earlier than expected or its remaining airspace is reduced for any other reason, the accruals for capping, closure and post-closure could be required to be accelerated, which could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we cannot assure you that we will continue to operate our landfills at current volumes due to the use of alternatives to landfill disposal caused by state requirements or voluntary initiatives. most of the states in which we operate landfills require counties and municipalities to formulate comprehensive plans to reduce the volume of solid waste deposited in landfills through waste planning, composting and recycling, or other programs. some state and local governments mandate waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of wastes, such as yard waste, at landfills. although such actions are useful in protecting our environment, these actions, as well as voluntary private initiatives by customers to reduce waste or seek disposal alternatives, have and may in the future reduce the volume of waste going to landfills in certain areas. if this occurs, we cannot assure you that we will be able to operate our landfills at their current volumes or charge current prices for landfill disposal services due to the decrease in demand for such services. 20 table of contents the possibility of landfill and transfer station site development projects, expansion projects or pending acquisitions not being completed or certain other events could result in a material charge to income. we capitalize certain expenditures relating to development, expansion and other projects. if a facility or operation is permanently shut down or determined to be impaired, or a development or expansion project is not completed or is determined to be impaired, we will charge any unamortized capitalized expenditures to income relating to such facility or project that we are unable to recover through sale, transfer or otherwise. in future periods, we may incur charges against earnings in accordance with this policy, or other events may cause impairments. such charges could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to costly environmental regulations and flow-control regulations that may affect our operating margins, restrict our operations and subject us to additional liability. complying with laws and regulations governing the use, treatment, storage, transfer and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and materials, air quality, water quality and the remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances is costly. laws and regulations often require us to enhance or replace our equipment and to modify landfill operations or initiate final closure of a landfill. we cannot assure you that we will be able to implement price increases sufficient to offset the costs of complying with these laws and regulations. in addition, environmental regulatory changes could accelerate or increase expenditures for capping, closure and post-closure, and environmental and remediation activities at solid waste facilities and obligate us to spend sums in addition to those presently accrued for such purposes. our collection, transfer, and landfill operations are, and may in the future continue to be, affected by state or local laws or regulations that restrict the transportation of solid waste across state, county or other jurisdictional lines. such laws and regulations could negatively affect our operations, resulting in declines in landfill volumes and increased costs of alternate disposal. in addition to the costs of complying with environmental regulations, we incur costs to defend against litigation brought by government agencies and private parties who may allege we are in violation of our permits and applicable environmental laws and regulations, or who assert claims alleging environmental damage, personal injury or property damage. as a result, we may be required to pay fines or implement corrective measures, or we may have our permits and licenses modified or revoked. a significant judgment against us, the loss of a significant permit or license, or the imposition of a significant fine could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we establish accruals for our estimates of the costs associated with our environmental obligations. we could underestimate such accruals and remediation costs could exceed amounts accrued. such shortfalls could result in significant unanticipated charges to income. regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could impose costs on our operations, the magnitude of which we cannot yet estimate. efforts to curtail the emission of greenhouse gases (ghgs), to ameliorate the effect of climate change, continue to advance on the federal, regional, and state level. our landfill operations emit methane, identified as a ghg. in june 2009, the u.s. house of representatives passed a bill that would regulate ghgs comprehensively. while the centerpiece of that bill would be a ghg emission allowance cap-and-trade system, landfills would not be compelled to hold allowances for their ghg emissions. rather, they would be subject to certain further emission controls to be determined through administrative rule-making. senate passage of counterpart legislation, and whether such legislation would treat landfills in the same manner, is uncertain. should comprehensive federal climate change legislation be enacted, we expect it to impose costs on our operations, the materiality of which we cannot predict. absent comprehensive federal legislation to control ghg emissions, epa is moving ahead administratively under its existing clean air act authority. in october 2009, epa published a proposed prevention of significant deterioration and title v greenhouse gas tailoring rule ( psd tailoring rule ). the proposed rule would set new thresholds for ghg emissions that define when clean air act permits would be required and 21 table of contents would tailor these programs to limit which facilities would be required to obtain permits. epa legal authority to tailor this rule in the manner it proposed has been challenged. if finalized as proposed, many of our landfills would be subject to the psd tailoring rule, which could require permit amendments and additional emission controls. in december 2009, epa finalized its finding that six ghgs endanger public health. while epa made its finding in the context of regulating air emissions from motor vehicles, other clean air act provisions appear to compel epa to make comparable findings for stationary sources, such as landfills. we cannot predict the requirements or effective date of stationary source rules that might apply to landfills as a result of this endangerment finding and, accordingly, we cannot assure you that further developments in this area will not have a material effect on our landfill operations or on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we may have potential environmental liabilities that are not covered by our insurance. changes in insurance markets also may impact our financial results. we may incur liabilities for the deterioration of the environment as a result of our operations. we maintain high deductibles for our environmental liability insurance coverage. if we were to incur substantial liability for environmental damage, our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover such liability. this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. also, due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we may experience future increases in self-insurance levels as a result of increased retention levels and increased premiums. as we assume more risk for self-insurance through higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in our self-insurance reserves and expense. despite our efforts, we may incur additional hazardous substances liability in excess of amounts presently known and accrued. we are a potentially responsible party at many sites under cercla, which provides for the remediation of contaminated facilities and imposes strict, joint and several liability for the cost of remediation on current owners and operators of a facility at which there has been a release or a threatened release of a hazardous substance, on parties who were site owners and operators at the time hazardous substances were disposed of, and on persons who arrange for the disposal of such substances at the facility (i.e., generators of the waste and transporters who selected the disposal site). hundreds of substances are defined as hazardous under cercla and their presence, even in minute amounts, can result in substantial liability. notwithstanding our efforts to comply with applicable regulations and to avoid transporting and receiving hazardous substances, we may have additional liability under cercla or similar laws in excess of our current reserves because such substances may be present in waste collected by us or disposed of in our landfills, or in waste collected, transported or disposed of in the past by companies we have acquired. actual costs for these liabilities could be significantly greater than amounts presently accrued for these purposes, which could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. we are, and from time to time become, involved in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of our business. many of these matters raise difficult and complicated factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties and complexities. the timing of the final resolutions to lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings is uncertain. additionally, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments, adversely affecting our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 22 table of contents we may experience difficulties completing the integration of allied business, and we may incur unexpected expenses in connection with that integration. achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger with allied will depend significantly on whether we can continue to integrate allied business in an efficient and effective manner. the ongoing integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be fully realized. we may not be able to accomplish the integration process smoothly, successfully or on a timely basis. any inability of our management to successfully and timely integrate the operations of the two companies could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may not realize the anticipated synergies and related benefits from the merger with allied fully or within the timing anticipated. we believe our merger with allied has been and will continue to be beneficial to our stockholders as a result of the actual and anticipated synergies resulting from the combined operations. while we are currently ahead of our original timeline, we may not be able to achieve the anticipated operating and cost synergies or the long-term strategic benefits of the merger fully or within the timing anticipated. for example, elimination of duplicative costs may not be fully achieved or may take longer than anticipated. for at least the first year after an acquisition, and possibly longer, the benefits from the acquisition will be offset by the costs incurred in integrating the businesses and operations. the inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated synergies or other benefits of the merger, or our encountering unexpected costs or delays in the integration process (which may delay the timing of such synergies or other benefits), could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be unable to manage our growth effectively. our growth strategy places significant demands on our financial, operational and management resources. to continue our growth, we may need to add administrative and other personnel, and will need to make additional investments in operations and systems. we cannot assure you that we will be able to find and train qualified personnel, or do so on a timely basis, or expand our operations and systems to the extent, and in the time, required. we may be unable to execute our acquisition growth strategy. our ability to execute our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to identify and acquire desirable acquisition candidates as well as our ability to successfully consolidate acquired operations into our business. the consolidation of our operations with those of acquired companies may present significant challenges to our management. in addition, competition among our competitors for acquisition candidates may prevent us from acquiring certain acquisition candidates. as such, we cannot assure you that: desirable acquisition candidates exist or will be identified; we will be able to acquire any of the candidates identified; we will effectively consolidate companies we acquire; or any acquisitions will be profitable or accretive to our earnings. if any of the aforementioned factors force us to alter our growth strategy, our growth prospects could be adversely affected. businesses we acquire may have undisclosed liabilities. in pursuing our acquisition strategy, our due diligence investigations of the acquisition candidates may fail to discover certain undisclosed liabilities of the acquisition candidates. if we acquire a company having undisclosed liabilities such as environmental, remediation or contractual, as a successor owner we may be responsible for such undisclosed liabilities. we expect to try to minimize our exposure to such liabilities by 23 table of contents conducting due diligence, by obtaining indemnification from each of the sellers of the acquired companies, by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase price as security for the indemnification and by acquiring only specified assets. however, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain indemnification or that any indemnification obtained will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any undisclosed liabilities arising from our acquisitions. our consolidated financial statements are based on estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap and necessarily include amounts based on estimates and assumptions made by management. actual results could differ from these amounts. significant items requiring management to make subjective or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain include the carrying value of long-lived assets, the depletion and amortization of landfill development costs, accruals for final capping, closure and post-closure costs, valuation allowances for accounts receivable and deferred tax assets, liabilities for potential litigation, claims and assessments, and liabilities for environmental remediation, employee benefit and pension plans, deferred taxes, uncertain tax positions and self-insurance. we cannot assure you that the liabilities recorded for landfill and environmental costs will be adequate to cover the requirements of existing environmental regulations, future changes to or interpretations of existing regulations, or the identification of adverse environmental conditions previously unknown to management. the introduction of new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our results of operations. complying with new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our results of operations in future periods. we may be subject to workforce influences, including work stoppages, which could increase our operating costs and disrupt our operations. as of december 31, 2009, approximately 27% of our workforce was represented by various local labor unions. if our unionized workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and an increase in our operating costs, which could have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, if a greater percentage of our workforce becomes unionized, our business and financial results could be materially and adversely impacted due to the potential for increased operating costs. our obligation to fund multi-employer pension plans to which we contribute may have an adverse impact on us. we contribute to at least 25 multi-employer pension plans covering at least 17% of our current employees. we do not administer these plans and generally are not represented on the boards of trustees of these plans. the pension protection act enacted in 2006 (the ppa) requires under-funded pension plans to improve their funding ratios. based on the information available to us, we believe that some of the multi-employer plans to which we contribute are either critical or endangered as those terms are defined in the ppa. we cannot determine at this time the amount of additional funding, if any, we may be required to make to these plans and, therefore, have not recorded any related liabilities. however, plan assessments could have an adverse impact on our results of operations or cash flows for a given period. furthermore, under current law, upon the termination of a multi-employer pension plan, or in the event of a withdrawal by us (which we consider from time to time) or a mass withdrawal of contributing employers (each, a withdrawal event ), we would be required to make payments to the plan for our proportionate share of the plan unfunded vested liabilities. we cannot assure you that there will not be a withdrawal event with respect to any of the multi-employer pension plans to which we contribute or that, in the event of such a withdrawal event, the amounts we would be 24 table of contents required to contribute would not have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the costs of providing for pension benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in pension fund values and fluctuating actuarial assumptions, and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we sponsor a defined benefit pension plan which is funded with trustee assets invested in a diversified portfolio of debt and equity securities. our costs for providing such benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in the market value of plan assets. our pension expenses and related funding requirements are also subject to various actuarial calculations and assumptions, which may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, interest rates and other factors. a significant increase in our pension obligations and funding requirements could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects. our future success depends on the continued contributions of several key employees and officers. the loss of the services of key employees and officers, whether such loss is through resignation or other causes, or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 78 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our major market risk exposure of our financial instruments is changing interest rates in the united states and fluctuations in libor. we intend to manage interest rate risk through the use of a combination of fixed and floating rate debt. the carrying value of our variable rate debt approximates fair value because interest rates are variable and, accordingly, approximates current market rates for instruments with similar risk and maturities. the fair value of our debt is determined as of the balance sheet date and is subject to change. the table below provides information about certain of our market-sensitive financial instruments and constitutes a forward-looking statement . expected maturity date fair value of (asset)/ liability as of december 31, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 thereafter total 2009 fixed rate debt: amount outstanding (in millions) $ 250.3 $ 871.6 $ 29.9 $ 5.3 $ 440.7 $ 4,404.0 $ 6,001.8 $ 6,205.4 average interest rates 6.58 % 6.35 % 5.00 % 5.24 6.11 % 6.47 % 6.45 % variable rate debt amount outstanding (in millions) $ 300.0 $ - $ - $ 325.4 $ - $ 802.9 $ 1,428.3 $ 1,428.3 average interest rates 1.57 % - - 1.82 % - 1.78 % 1.74 % interest rate swaps: fixed to variable notional amount (in millions) $ - $ 210.0 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 210.0 $ 9.9 average pay rate - % 2.57 % - % - % - % - % 2.57 % average receive rate - % 6.75 % - % - % - % - % 6.75 % the fixed and variable rate debt amounts above exclude non-cash discounts, premiums, adjustments to fair value related to hedging transactions and adjustments to fair value recorded in purchase accounting totaling $467.5 million. fuel price risk fuel costs represent a significant operating expense. when economically practical, we may enter into new or renewal contracts, or engage in other strategies to mitigate market risk. where appropriate, we have implemented a fuel recovery fee that is designed to recover our fuel costs. while we charge these fees to a majority of our customers, we are unable to charge such fees to all customers. consequently, an increase in fuel costs results in 78 table of contents (1) an increase in our cost of operations, (2) a smaller increase in our revenue (from the fuel recovery fee) and (3) a decrease in our operating margin percentage, because the increase in revenue is more than offset by the increase in cost. conversely, a decrease in fuel costs results in (1) a decrease in our cost of operations, (2) a smaller decrease in our revenue and (3) an increase in our operating margin percentage. at our current consumption levels, a one-cent change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel costs by approximately $1.5 million on an annual basis, which would be partially offset by a smaller change in the fuel recovery fees charged to our customers. accordingly, a substantial rise or drop in fuel costs could result in a material impact to our revenue and cost of operations. our operations also require the use of certain petrochemical-based products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of petrochemicals. an increase in the price of petrochemicals could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs. we are also susceptible to increases in indirect fuel surcharges from our vendors. commodities prices we market recycled products such as cardboard and newspaper from our material recycling facilities. as a result, changes in the market prices of these items will impact our results of operations. revenue from sales of recycled cardboard and newspaper in 2009, 2008 and 2007 were approximately $181.2 million, $121.1 million and $113.9 million, respectively. 79risk factors 16 risk factors. financial strategy key components of our financial strategy include generating and growing free cash flow and sustaining or improving our return on invested capital. our definition of free cash flow, which is not a measure determined in accordance with united states generally accepted accounting principles (u.s. gaap), is cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment, plus proceeds from sales of property and equipment as presented in our consolidated statements of cash flows. we believe that free cash flow is a driver of stockholder value and provides useful information regarding the recurring cash provided by our operations. free cash flow also demonstrates our ability to execute our financial strategy, which includes reinvesting in capital assets to ensure a high level of customer service, investing in capital assets to facilitate growth in our customer base and services provided, maintaining our investment grade credit ratings and reducing debt, paying cash dividends, repurchasing our stock, and maintaining and improving our market position through business optimization. free cash flow is also a key metric used to determine management compensation. we manage our free cash flow by ensuring that capital expenditures and operating asset levels are appropriate in light of our existing business and growth opportunities and by closely managing our working capital, which consists primarily of accounts receivable and accounts payable. 7 table of contents we have used and will continue to use our cash flow to maximize stockholder value as well as our return on invested capital. our financial strategy includes: market growth and optimization within our markets, our goal is to deliver sustainable, long-term profitable growth while efficiently operating our assets to generate acceptable rates of return. we allocate capital to businesses, markets and development projects to support growth in order to achieve acceptable rates of return. we develop previously non-permitted, non-contiguous landfill sites (greenfield landfill sites). we also expand our existing landfill sites, when possible. we supplement this organic growth with acquisitions of operating assets, such as landfills, transfer stations, material recovery facilities and tuck-in acquisitions of collection and disposal operations in existing markets. we continuously evaluate our existing operating assets and their deployment within each market to determine if we have optimized our position and to ensure appropriate investment of capital. where operations are not generating acceptable returns, we examine opportunities to achieve greater efficiencies and returns through the integration of additional assets. if such enhancements are not possible, we may ultimately decide to divest the existing assets and reallocate resources to other markets. enhancing stockholder value dividends. in july 2003, our board of directors initiated a quarterly cash dividend of $0.04 per share. our quarterly dividend has increased from time to time thereafter, the latest increase occurring in the third quarter of 2010 to $0.20 per share, representing a compound annual growth rate of approximately 26%. we expect to continue paying quarterly cash dividends and may consider additional increases of our quarterly cash dividend if we believe it will enhance stockholder value. share repurchase. in november 2010, our board of directors approved a share repurchase program pursuant to which we may repurchase up to $400.0 million of our outstanding shares of common stock. as of december 31, 2010, we used $41.1 million under the program to repurchase 1.4 million shares at an average cost per share of $28.46. we expect to use the remaining funds in this program to repurchase shares during 2011. we intend to execute our financial strategy while still maintaining flexibility to take advantage of market growth opportunities and still maintaining our investment grade credit ratings. capital structure debt. following our december 5, 2008 allied acquisition, we initiated a debt reduction program which, to date, has resulted in a net reduction in borrowings of $1.3 billion funded by cash flow from operations and proceeds from disposition of assets. we also refinanced $1.5 billion in senior notes and $677.4 million in tax-exempt financings which reduced the average coupon rate on our senior notes and tax-exempt financings, on a weighted average basis, by more than 125 basis points while extending our debt maturities and thereby giving greater stability to our capital structure. we anticipate taking further advantage of capital market opportunities to mitigate our financial risk by issuing new debt in 2011 and using the proceeds to repay existing debt. any early extinguishment of debt may result in a charge in the period in which the debt is repurchased and retired. credit ratings. we believe that a key component of our financial strategy includes maintaining investment grade ratings on our senior debt, which was rated bbb by standard poor s, bbb by fitch and baa3 by moody as of december 31, 2010. such ratings have allowed us, and should continue to allow us, to readily access capital markets at competitive rates. our cash utilization strategy will continue to focus on maintaining our investment grade credit ratings. for certain risks related to our financial strategy, see item 1a. risk factors . operations our operations primarily consist of the collection, transfer and disposal of non-hazardous solid waste. 8 table of contents collection services. we provide solid waste collection services to commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers through 348 collection companies. in 2010, 76.2% of our revenue was derived from collection services. within the collection line of business, 35% of our revenue is from services provided to municipal and residential customers, 40% is from services provided to commercial customers, and 25% is from services provided to industrial and other customers. our residential collection operations involve the curbside collection of refuse from small containers into collection vehicles for transport to transfer stations or directly to landfills. residential solid waste collection services are typically performed under contracts with municipalities, which we generally secure by competitive bid and which give us exclusive rights to service all or a portion of the homes in the respective municipalities. these contracts or franchises usually range in duration from one to five years, although some of our exclusive franchises are for significantly longer periods. residential solid waste collection services may also be performed on a subscription basis, in which individual households contract directly with us. the fees received for subscription residential collection are based primarily on market factors, frequency and type of service, the distance to the disposal facility and the cost of disposal. in general, subscription residential collection fees are paid quarterly in advance by the residential customers receiving the service. in our commercial and industrial collection operations, we supply our customers with waste containers of varying sizes. we also rent compactors to large waste generators. commercial collection services are generally performed under one- to three-year service agreements, and fees are determined by considerations such as market factors, collection frequency, type of equipment furnished, the type and volume or weight of the waste collected, transportation costs, the distance to the disposal facility and the cost of disposal. we also provide waste collection services to industrial and construction facilities on a contractual basis with terms ranging from a single pickup to one year or longer. our construction services are provided to the commercial construction and home building sectors. we collect the containers or compacted waste and transport the waste either to a landfill or a transfer station for disposal. we also provide recycling services in certain markets. these services include the curbside collection of residential recyclable waste and the provision of a variety of recycling services to commercial and industrial customers. transfer and disposal services. we own or operate 204 transfer stations. we deposit waste at these transfer stations, as do other private haulers and municipal haulers, for compaction and transfer to trailers for transport to disposal sites or recycling facilities. in 2010, transfer and disposal services accounted for 18.2% of our revenue. as of december 31, 2010, we owned or operated 193 active landfills, which had approximately 36,000 permitted acres and total available permitted and probable expansion disposal capacity of approximately 4.7 billion in-place cubic yards. the in-place capacity of our landfills is subject to change based on engineering factors, requirements of regulatory authorities, our ability to continue to operate our landfills in compliance with applicable regulations, and our ability to successfully renew operating permits and obtain expansion permits at our sites. some of our landfills accept non-hazardous special waste, including utility ash, asbestos and contaminated soils. most of our active landfill sites have the potential for expanded disposal capacity beyond the currently permitted acreage. we monitor the availability of permitted disposal capacity at each of our landfills and evaluate whether to pursue an expansion at a given landfill based on estimated future waste volumes and prices, market needs, remaining capacity and likelihood of obtaining an expansion. to satisfy future disposal demand, we are currently seeking to expand permitted capacity at certain of our landfills. however, we cannot assure you that all proposed or future expansions will be permitted as designed. we also have responsibility for 129 closed landfills, for which we have associated closure and post-closure obligations. 9 table of contents landfill gas and renewable energy projects. during 2010, we brought two new landfill gas to energy (lfgte) projects on line, resulting in a total of 73 active lfgte projects. these projects consist of the following: 51 electric plants fueled by landfill gas; 14 medium british thermal unit (btu) plants providing landfill gas to industrial users to be burned as fuel; six high btu plants that provide pipeline quality natural gas that ultimately could be used to fuel our natural gas fleet, and two projects that burn landfill gas to evaporate leachate. the beneficial use of landfill gas provides our economy and environment with significant benefits, including: the use and destruction of methane, a potent greenhouse gas, which reduces air pollution; and the use of landfill gas offsets the use of fossil fuels, thus reducing our dependence on foreign oil and use of our natural resources. our 51 generating projects produce 321 megawatts of electricity annually, which is enough power to supply the electric needs of 189,530 homes. our 22 other lfgte projects process and produce 55,950 cubic feet per minute of landfill gas annually, which provides an energy benefit equivalent to heating 190,151 homes. the environmental benefit of all of our projects removes the equivalent of 950,434 tons of methane emissions and 2,346,535 tons of carbon dioxide emissions from the atmosphere. this is equivalent to removing the emissions of approximately 3.9 million cars from our highways. one of the two new projects, a medium btu use project at our newton county landfill, received the usepa 2010 project of the year award. in 2010, we also began the design and construction of new projects at nine landfills, which is comprised of seven electric plants, one medium btu plant and one high btu plant. the high btu project, announced in the fall of 2010, will feature an industry first process of producing high btu pipeline quality gas and using that gas to provide equivalent renewable compressed natural gas (cng) to a portion of our expanding fleet of cng refuse vehicles. recycling facilities and other services. we own or operate 76 materials recovery facilities and other recycling operations. these facilities sort recyclable paper, aluminum, glass and other materials. most of these recyclable materials are internally collected by our residential collection operations. in some areas, we receive commercial and industrial solid waste that is sorted at our facilities into recyclable materials and non-recyclable waste. the recyclable materials are salvaged, repackaged and sold to third parties, and the non-recyclable waste is disposed of at landfills or incinerators. sales and marketing we seek to provide quality services that will enable us to maintain high levels of customer satisfaction. our business is derived from a broad customer base, which we believe will enable us to experience stable growth. we focus our marketing efforts on continuing and expanding our business with existing customers, as well as attracting new customers. we employ approximately 1,100 sales and marketing employees with a sales and marketing strategy of providing high-quality, comprehensive solid waste collection, recycling, transfer and disposal services to our customers at competitive prices. we target customers of all sizes, from small quantity generators to large fortune 500 companies and municipalities. while most of our marketing activity is local in nature, we also provide a national accounts program in response to the needs of national and regional customers. this national accounts program is designed to provide the best total solution to our customers evolving waste management needs in an environmentally responsible manner. we partner with national clients to reach their sustainability goals, optimize waste streams, 10 table of contents balance equipment and service intervals, and provide customized reporting. the national accounts program centralizes services to effectively manage customer needs, while helping minimize procurement costs. with our extended geographic reach, this program effectively serves our customers nationwide. as industry leaders, our mission is to utilize our strengths and expertise to exceed customer expectations by consistently delivering the best national program available. historically we have not always changed the trade names of the local businesses we acquired, and therefore we do not operate nationally under any one mark or trade name. the majority of our operations, however, are branded under either republic, allied or bfi. customers we provide services to a broad base of commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers. no single customer has individually accounted for more than 3% of our consolidated revenue or of our reportable segment revenue in any of the last three years. competition we operate in a highly competitive industry. however, entry into our business and the ability to operate profitably require substantial amounts of capital and managerial experience. competition in the non-hazardous solid waste industry comes from a few other large, national publicly owned companies, including waste management, inc., several regional publicly and privately owned solid waste companies, and thousands of small privately owned companies. in any given market, competitors may have larger operations and greater resources. in addition to national and regional firms and numerous local companies, we compete with municipalities that maintain waste collection or disposal operations. these municipalities may have financial advantages due to the availability of tax revenue and tax-exempt financing. we compete for collection accounts primarily on the basis of price and the quality of our services. from time to time, our competitors may reduce the price of their services in an effort to expand market share or to win a competitively bid municipal contract. our ability to maintain and increase prices in certain markets may be impacted by the pricing policies of our competitors. this may have an impact on our future revenue and profitability. seasonality and severe weather our operations can be adversely affected by periods of inclement or severe weather, which could increase the volume of waste collected under our existing contracts (without corresponding compensation), delay the collection and disposal of waste, reduce the volume of waste delivered to our disposal sites, or delay the construction or expansion of our landfill sites and other facilities. our operations also can be favorably affected by severe weather, which could increase the volume of waste in situations where we are able to charge for our additional services. regulation our facilities and operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local requirements that regulate the environment, public health, safety, zoning and land use. operating and other permits, licenses and other approvals generally are required for landfills and transfer stations, certain solid waste collection vehicles, fuel storage tanks and other facilities that we own or operate. these permits are subject to denial, revocation, modification and renewal in certain circumstances. federal, state and local laws and regulations vary, but generally govern wastewater or storm water discharges, air emissions, the handling, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, and the remediation of contamination associated with the release or threatened release of hazardous substances. these laws and regulations provide governmental authorities with strict powers of enforcement, which include the ability to revoke or decline to renew any of our operating permits, obtain injunctions, or impose fines or penalties in the event of violations, including 11 table of contents criminal penalties. the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) and various other federal, state and local authorities administer these regulations. we strive to conduct our operations in compliance with applicable laws, regulations and permits. however, in the existing climate of heightened environmental concerns, from time to time we have been issued citations or notices from governmental authorities that have resulted in the need to expend funds for remedial work and related activities at various landfills and other facilities. we cannot assure you that citations and notices will not be issued in the future despite our regulatory compliance efforts. we have established final capping, closure, post-closure and remediation reserves that we believe, based on currently available information, will be adequate to cover our current estimates of regulatory costs. however, we cannot assure you that actual costs will not exceed our reserves. refer to the contractual obligations table within item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained elsewhere herein for further information. federal regulation. the following summarizes the primary federal environmental and occupational health and safety-related statutes that affect our facilities and operations: the solid waste disposal act, including the resource conservation and recovery act (rcra). rcra establishes a framework for regulating the handling, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous solid waste, and requires states to develop programs to ensure the safe disposal of solid waste in sanitary landfills. subtitle d of rcra establishes a framework for regulating the disposal of municipal solid waste. regulations under subtitle d currently include minimum comprehensive solid waste management criteria and guidelines, including location restrictions, facility design and operating criteria, final capping, closure and post-closure requirements, financial assurance standards, groundwater monitoring requirements and corrective action standards. all of the states in which we operate have implemented permit programs pursuant to rcra and subtitle d. these state permit programs may include landfill requirements which are more stringent than those of subtitle d. our failure to comply with the implementation of federal environmental requirements by state and local authorities at any of our locations may lead to temporary or permanent loss of an operating permit, which would result in costs in connection with securing new permits and reduced revenue from lost operational time. all of our planned landfill expansions and new landfill development projects have been engineered to meet or exceed subtitle d requirements. operating and design criteria for existing operations have been modified to comply with these regulations. compliance with subtitle d regulations has resulted in increased costs and may in the future require substantial additional expenditures in addition to other costs normally associated with our waste management activities. the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act of 1980 (cercla). cercla, among other things, provides for the cleanup of sites from which there is a release or threatened release of a hazardous substance into the environment. cercla may impose strict joint and several liability for the costs of cleanup and for damages to natural resources upon current owners and operators of a site, parties who were owners or operators of a site at the time the hazardous substances were disposed of, parties who transported the hazardous substances to a site, and parties who arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances at a site. under the authority of cercla and its implementing regulations, detailed requirements apply to the manner and degree of investigation and remediation of facilities and sites where hazardous substances have been or are threatened to be released into the environment. liability under cercla is not dependent on the existence or disposal of only hazardous wastes, but also can be based upon the existence of small quantities of more than 700 substances, characterized by the epa as hazardous many of which are found in common household waste. among other things, cercla authorizes the federal government to investigate and remediate sites at which hazardous substances have been or are threatened to be released into the environment or to order persons potentially liable for the cleanup of the hazardous substances to do so themselves. in addition, the 12 table of contents epa has established a national priorities list of sites at which hazardous substances have been or are threatened to be released and which require investigation or cleanup. cercla liability is strict liability. it can be founded upon the release or threatened release, even as a result of unintentional, non-negligent or lawful action, of hazardous substances, including very small quantities of such substances. thus, even if we have never knowingly transported or received hazardous waste, it is likely that hazardous substances have been deposited or released at landfills or other facilities that we presently or historically have owned or operated, or at properties owned by third parties to which we have transported waste. therefore, we could be liable under cercla for the cost of cleaning up such hazardous substances at such sites and for damages to natural resources, even if those substances were deposited at our facilities before we acquired or operated them. the costs of a cercla cleanup can be very expensive and can include the costs of disposing remediation wastes at appropriately-licensed facilities. given the difficulty of obtaining insurance for environmental impairment liability, such liability could have a material impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the federal water pollution control act of 1972 (the clean water act). this act regulates the discharge of pollutants from a variety of sources, including solid waste disposal sites, into streams, rivers and other waters of the united states. runoff from our landfills and transfer stations that is discharged into surface waters through discrete conveyances must be covered by discharge permits that generally require us to conduct sampling and monitoring, and, under certain circumstances, to reduce the quantity of pollutants in those discharges. storm water discharge regulations under the clean water act require a permit for certain construction activities and for runoff from industrial operations and facilities, which may affect our operations. if a landfill or transfer station discharges wastewater through a sewage system to a publicly owned treatment works, the facility must comply with discharge limits imposed by that treatment works. in addition, states may adopt groundwater protection programs under the clean water act or the safe drinking water act that could affect the manner in which our solid waste landfills monitor and control their waste management activities. furthermore, in the event that development at any of our facilities alters or affects wetlands, we may be required to secure permits prior to such development commencing. in these situations, permitting agencies may require mitigation of wetland impacts. the clean air act. the clean air act imposes limitations on emissions from various sources, including landfills. in march 1996, the epa promulgated regulations that require large municipal solid waste landfills to install landfill gas monitoring systems. these regulations apply to landfills that commenced construction, reconstruction or modification on or after may 30, 1991, and, principally, to landfills that can accommodate 2.5 million cubic meters or more of municipal solid waste. the regulations apply whether the landfill is active or closed. the date by which each affected landfill is required to have a gas collection and control system installed and made operational varies depending on calculated emission rates at the landfill. efforts to curtail the emission of greenhouse gases and to ameliorate the effect of climate change may require our landfills to deploy more stringent emission controls and monitoring systems, with resulting capital or operating costs. in addition, our vehicle fleet may also become subject to higher efficiency standards or other carbon-emission restrictions. see item 1a. risk factors regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could impose costs on our operations, the magnitude of which we cannot yet estimate. many state regulatory agencies also currently require monitoring systems for the collection and control of certain landfill gas. certain of these state agencies are also implementing greenhouse gas control regulations that would also apply to landfill gas emissions. the occupational safety and health act of 1970 (osha). osha authorizes the occupational safety and health administration of the u.s. department of labor to promulgate occupational safety and health standards. a number of these standards, including standards for notices of hazardous chemicals and the handling of asbestos, apply to our facilities and operations. state and local regulation. each state in which we operate has its own laws and regulations governing solid waste disposal, water and air pollution, and, in most cases, releases and cleanup of hazardous substances and liabilities for such matters. states also have adopted regulations governing the design, operation, maintenance and closure of landfills and transfer stations. some counties, municipalities and other local governments have 13 table of contents adopted similar laws and regulations. our facilities and operations are likely to be subject to these types of requirements. in addition, our operations may be affected by the trend in many states toward requiring the development of solid waste reduction and recycling programs. for example, several states have enacted laws that require counties or municipalities to adopt comprehensive plans to reduce, through solid waste planning, composting, recycling or other programs, the volume of solid waste deposited in landfills. additionally, laws and regulations restricting the disposal of certain waste in solid waste landfills, including yard waste, newspapers, beverage containers, unshredded tires, lead-acid batteries, electronic wastes and household appliances, have been promulgated in several states and are being considered in others. legislative and regulatory measures to mandate or encourage waste reduction at the source and waste recycling also have been or are under consideration by the u.s. congress and the epa. to construct, operate and expand a landfill, we must obtain one or more construction or operating permits, as well as zoning and land use approvals. these permits and approvals may be burdensome to obtain and to comply with, are often opposed by neighboring landowners and citizens groups, may be subject to periodic renewal, and are subject to denial, modification, non-renewal and revocation by the issuing agency. significant compliance disclosure obligations often accompany these processes. in connection with our acquisition of existing landfills, we may be required to expend considerable time, effort and money to bring the acquired facilities into compliance with applicable requirements and to obtain the permits and approvals necessary to increase their capacity. other regulations. many of our facilities own and operate underground storage tanks that are generally used to store petroleum-based products. these tanks are generally subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that mandate their periodic testing, upgrading, closure and removal. in the event of leaks or releases from these tanks, these regulations require that polluted groundwater and soils be remediated. we believe that all of our underground storage tanks meet all applicable regulations. if underground storage tanks we own or operate leak, we could be liable for response costs and, if the leakage migrates onto the property of others, we could be liable for damages to third parties. we are unaware of facts indicating that issues of compliance with regulations related to underground storage tanks will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. with regard to our solid waste transportation operations, we are subject to the jurisdiction of the surface transportation board and are regulated by the federal highway administration, office of motor carriers, and by regulatory agencies in states that regulate such matters. various state and local government authorities have enacted or promulgated, or are considering enacting or promulgating, laws and regulations that would restrict the transportation of solid waste across state, county, or other jurisdiction lines. in 1978, the u.s. supreme court ruled that a law that restricts the importation of out-of-state solid waste is unconstitutional; however, states have attempted to distinguish proposed laws from those involved in and implicated by that ruling. in 1994, the supreme court ruled that a flow control law, which attempted to restrict solid waste from leaving its place of generation, imposes an impermissible burden upon interstate commerce, and, therefore, is unconstitutional. in 2007, the supreme court upheld the right of a local government to direct the flow of solid waste to a publicly owned and publicly operated waste facility. a number of county and other local jurisdictions have enacted ordinances or other regulations restricting the free movement of solid waste across jurisdictional boundaries. other governments may enact similar regulations in the future. these regulations may, in some cases, cause a decline in volumes of waste delivered to our landfills or transfer stations and may increase our costs of disposal, thereby adversely affecting our operations. liabilities established for landfill and environmental costs. we have established reserves for landfill and environmental costs, which include landfill site final capping, closure and post-closure costs. we periodically reassess such costs based on various methods and assumptions regarding landfill airspace and the technical requirements of subtitle d of rcra, and we adjust our rates used to expense final capping, closure and post-closure costs accordingly. based on current information and regulatory requirements, we believe that our recorded reserves for such landfill and environmental expenditures are adequate. however, environmental laws may change, and we cannot assure you that our recorded reserves will be adequate to cover requirements under existing or new environmental laws and regulations, future changes or interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or adverse environmental conditions previously unknown to us. 14 table of contents liability insurance and bonding the nature of our business exposes us to the risk of liabilities arising out of our operations, including possible damages to the environment. such potential liabilities could involve, for example, claims for remediation costs, personal injury, property damage and damage to the environment in cases where we may be held responsible for the escape of harmful materials; claims of employees, customers or third parties for personal injury or property damage occurring in the course of our operations; or claims alleging negligence or other wrongdoing in the planning or performance of work. we could also be subject to fines and civil and criminal penalties in connection with alleged violations of regulatory requirements. because of the nature and scope of the possible environmental damages, liabilities imposed in environmental litigation can be significant. our solid waste operations have third party environmental liability insurance with limits in excess of those required by permit regulations, subject to certain limitations and exclusions. however, we cannot assure you that such environmental liability insurance would be adequate, in scope or amount, in the event of a major loss, nor can we assure you that we would continue to carry excess environmental liability insurance should market conditions in the insurance industry make such coverage costs prohibitive. we have general liability, vehicle liability, employment practices liability, pollution liability, directors and officers liability, workers compensation and employer liability coverage, as well as umbrella liability policies to provide excess coverage over the underlying limits contained in these primary policies. we also carry property insurance. although we try to operate safely and prudently and we have, subject to limitations and exclusions, substantial liability insurance, we cannot assure you that we will not be exposed to uninsured liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our insurance programs for workers compensation, general liability, vehicle liability, and employee-related health care benefits are effectively self-insured. claims in excess of self-insurance levels are insured subject to the excess policy limits and exclusions. accruals are based on claims filed and actuarial estimates of claims development and claims incurred but not reported. due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we have experienced, and may experience in the future, increased self-insurance retention levels and increased premiums. as we assume more risk for self-insurance through higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in our self-insurance reserves and expense. in the normal course of business, we post performance bonds, insurance policies, letters of credit, or cash or marketable securities deposits in connection with municipal residential collection contracts, closure and post-closure of landfills, environmental remediation, environmental permits, and business licenses and permits as a financial guarantee of our performance. to date, we have satisfied financial responsibility requirements by making cash or marketable securities deposits or by obtaining bank letters of credit, insurance policies or surety bonds. employees as of december 31, 2010, we employed approximately 30,000 full-time employees, approximately 27% of whom were covered by collective bargaining agreements. from time to time, our operating locations may experience union organizing efforts. we have not historically experienced any significant work stoppages. we currently have no disputes or bargaining circumstances that we believe could cause significant disruptions in our business. our management believes that we have good relations with our employees. availability of reports and other information our corporate website is http://www.republicservices.com. we make available on this website, free of charge, access to our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy statements on schedule 14a and amendments to those materials filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities and exchange act of 1934. we make such materials available as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically submit them to the securities and exchange commission (sec). our corporate website also contains our corporate governance guidelines, code of ethics, political contributions policy and charters of the nominating and corporate governance committee, audit committee 15 table of contents and compensation committee of the board of directors. in addition, the sec website is http://www.sec.gov. the sec makes available on this website, free of charge, reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, such as us, that file electronically with the sec. information on our website or the sec website is not part of this form 10-k. we intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements under item 5.05 of form 8-k and applicable new york stock exchange (nyse) rules regarding amendments to or waivers of our code of ethics by posting this information on our website at www.republicservices.com . item 1a. risk factors this form 10-k contains certain forward-looking information about us that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. words such as expect, will, may, anticipate, plan, estimate, project, intend, should, can, likely, could and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. these statements include statements about our plans, strategies and prospects. forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. these statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of our management and are subject to risk and uncertainties, including the risks set forth below in these risk factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. in light of these risks, uncertainties, assumptions and factors, the results anticipated by the forward-looking statements discussed in this form 10-k may not occur. you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this form 10-k. except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, we undertake no obligation to update or publish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this form 10-k or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. we have substantial indebtedness, which may limit our financial flexibility. as of december 31, 2010, we had approximately $7.0 billion in principal value of debt and capital leases outstanding. this amount of indebtedness and our debt service requirements may limit our financial flexibility to access additional capital and make capital expenditures and other investments in our business, to withstand economic downturns and interest rate increases, to plan for or react to changes in our business and our industry, and to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants of our debt instruments. further, our ability to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in our debt instruments may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions or other events that are beyond our control. if we do not comply with these covenants and restrictions, we may be required to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, reducing dividends or stock repurchases, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of our existing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. the downturn in the u.s. economy may continue to have an adverse impact on our operating results. a weak economy generally results in decreases in the volumes of waste generated. in 2010, weakness in the u.s. economy had a negative effect on our revenue, operating results and operating cash flows. the current and previous economic slowdowns have negatively impacted the portion of our collection business servicing the manufacturing and construction industries. as a result of the global economic crisis, we may experience the negative effects of increased competitive pricing pressure and customer turnover as well. we cannot assure you that worsening economic conditions or a prolonged or recurring recession will not have a significant adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. furthermore, recovery in solid waste volumes historically has lagged behind recovery in the general economy and we cannot assure you that an improvement in general economic conditions will result in an immediate, or any, improvement in our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 16 table of contents the downturn in the u.s. economy may expose us to credit risk for amounts due from governmental agencies, large national accounts and others. the weak u.s. economy has reduced the amount of taxes collected by various governmental agencies. we provide services to a number of these agencies including numerous municipalities. these governmental agencies may suffer financial difficulties resulting from a decrease in tax revenue and may ultimately be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us. in addition, the weak economy may cause other customers, including our large national accounts, to suffer financial difficulties and ultimately to be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us. this could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the downturn in the u.s. economy and in the financial markets could expose us to counter-party risk associated with our derivatives. to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in various commodities and interest rates, we have entered into a number of derivative agreements. these derivative agreements require us or the counter-party to such agreements to make payments to the other party if the price of certain commodities or interest rates vary from a specified amount. although we only enter these agreements with investment grade-rated financial institutions, a continued downturn in the u.s. economy or in the financial markets could adversely impact the financial stability of the counter-parties with which we do business, potentially limiting their ability to fulfill their obligations under our derivative agreements. this could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the waste industry is highly competitive and includes competitors that may have greater financial and operational resources, flexibility to reduce prices and other competitive advantages that could make it difficult for us to compete effectively. we principally compete with large national waste management companies, numerous municipalities, and numerous regional and local companies for collection and disposal accounts. competition for collection accounts is primarily based on price and the quality of services. competition for disposal business is primarily based on disposal costs, geographic location and quality of operations. one of our competitors may have greater financial and operational resources than we do. further, many counties and municipalities that operate their own waste collection and disposal facilities have the benefits of tax revenue or tax-exempt financing. our ability to obtain solid waste volume for our landfills may also be limited by the fact that some major collection companies also own or operate landfills to which they send their waste. in markets in which we do not own or operate a landfill, our collection operations may operate at a disadvantage to fully integrated competitors. as a result of these factors, from time to time we may have difficulty competing effectively in certain markets. if we were to lower prices to address these competitive issues, it could negatively impact our revenues and profitability. price increases may not be adequate to offset the impact of increased costs and may cause us to lose volume. we seek to secure price increases necessary to offset higher costs (including fuel and environmental costs), to maintain or improve operating margins, and to obtain adequate returns on our substantial investments in assets such as our landfills. from time to time, our competitors may reduce their prices in an effort to expand their market share. contractual, general economic or market-specific conditions also may limit our ability to raise prices. for example, many of our contracts have price adjustment provisions that are tied to an index such as the consumer price index. particularly in a weak u.s. economy such as the current one, our costs may increase in excess of the increase, if any, in the consumer price index. this may continue to be the case even when the u.s. economy recovers because a recovery in the solid waste industry historically has lagged behind a recovery in the general economy. as a result, we may be unable to offset increases in costs, improve our operating margins and obtain adequate investment returns through price increases. we may also lose volume to lower-cost competitors. 17 table of contents increases in the cost of fuel or petrochemicals will increase our operating expenses, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to recover fuel or oil cost increases from our customers. we depend on fuel purchased in the open market to operate our collection and transfer trucks and other equipment used for collection, transfer, and disposal. fuel prices are unpredictable and can fluctuate significantly based on events beyond our control, including geopolitical developments, actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries and other oil and gas producers, supply and demand for oil and gas, war, terrorism and unrest in oil-producing countries, and regional production patterns. due to contractual or market factors, we may not be able to offset such volatility through fuel surcharges. for example, our fuel costs were $407.6 million in 2010, representing 5.0% of our revenue compared to $349.8 million in 2009, representing 4.3% of our revenue. to manage our exposure to volatility in fuel prices, we have entered into multiple swap agreements whereby we receive or make payments to counter-parties should the price of fuel vary from a specified amount. during 2010, approximately 7% of our fuel volume purchases were hedged with swap agreements. additionally, we are able to collect fuel recovery fees from some customers. for 2010, we were able to recover approximately 66% of our fuel costs with fuel recovery fees. over the last several years, regulations have been adopted mandating changes in the composition of fuels for motor vehicles. in november 2010, epa finalized its renewable fuel standard for 2011, which mandates increasing volumes of renewable fuels and biofuels to be used in motor vehicles driven in the u.s. these regulations will likely affect the type of fuel our motor vehicle fleet uses and in the near-term increase the cost of that fuel. our operations also require the use of products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of petrochemicals. an increase in the price of petrochemicals could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs. we are also susceptible to increases in indirect fuel surcharges from our vendors. fluctuations in prices for recycled commodities that we sell to customers may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we process recyclable materials such as paper, cardboard, plastics, aluminum and other metals for sale to third parties. our results of operations may be affected by changing prices or market requirements for recyclable materials. the resale and purchase prices of, and market demand for, recyclable materials can be volatile due to changes in economic conditions and numerous other factors beyond our control. these fluctuations may affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we have in the past, and may in the future, enter into swap agreements whereby we receive or make payments to counter-parties if the price of commodities varies from a specified amount or range. adverse weather conditions may limit our operations and increase the costs of collection and disposal. our collection and landfill operations could be adversely impacted by extended periods of inclement weather, or by increased severity of weather and climate extremes resulting in the future from climate change, any of which could increase the volume of waste collected under our existing contracts (without corresponding compensation), interfere with collection and landfill operations, delay the development of landfill capacity or reduce the volume of waste generated by our customers. in addition, adverse weather conditions may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect our operating results in the affected regions during those periods. we currently have matters pending with the internal revenue service (the irs ), which could result in large cash expenditures and could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and cash flows. during its examination of allied 2002 tax year, the irs asserted that a 2002 redemption of four partnership interests in waste-to-energy businesses should have been recharacterized as disguised sale transactions. this issue is currently before the appeals division of the irs. the company believes its position is supported by relevant technical authorities and strong business purpose and we intend to vigorously defend our position on 18 table of contents this matter. the potential tax and interest through december 31, 2010 (to the extent unpaid) have been fully reserved in our consolidated balance sheet. a disallowance would not materially affect our consolidated results of operations; however, a deficiency payment would adversely impact our cash flow in the period the payment was made. the accrual of additional interest charges through the time this matter is resolved will affect our consolidated results of operations. in addition, the successful assertion by the irs of penalty and penalty-related interest in connection with this matter could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, during its examination of allied 2000 through 2007 tax years, the irs proposed that certain landfill costs be allocated to the collection and control of methane gas that is naturally emitted from landfills. the irs position is that the methane gas emitted by a landfill constitutes a joint product resulting from landfill operations and, therefore, associated costs should not be expensed until the methane gas is sold or otherwise disposed. we believe we have several meritorious defenses, including the fact that methane gas is not actively produced for sale by us but rather arises naturally in the context of providing disposal services. therefore, we believe that the resolution of this issue will not have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. for additional information on these matters, see note 10, income taxes, to our consolidated financial statements in item 8. of this form 10-k. we may be unable to execute our financial strategy. our ability to execute our financial strategy depends on our ability to maintain investment grade ratings on our senior debt. the credit rating process is contingent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our investment grade ratings in the future. our interest expense would increase and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms may be adversely affected should we fail to maintain investment grade ratings. our financial strategy is also dependent on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to reinvest in our existing business, fund internal growth, acquire other solid waste businesses, pay dividends, repurchase stock, reduce indebtedness and minimize borrowings, and take other actions to enhance stockholder value. we cannot assure you that: we will be successful in executing our broad-based pricing program; we will generate sufficient cash flow to execute our financial strategy; we will be able to pay cash dividends at our present rate, we will be able to increase the amount of such dividends, or we will be able to continue our share repurchase program. a downgrade in our bond ratings could adversely affect our liquidity by increasing the cost of debt and financial assurance instruments. while downgrades of our bond ratings may not have an immediate impact on our cost of debt or liquidity, they may impact our cost of debt and liquidity over the near to medium term. if the rating agencies downgrade our debt, this may increase the interest rate we must pay to issue new debt, and it may even make it prohibitively expensive for us to issue new debt. if our debt ratings are downgraded, future access to financial assurance markets at a reasonable cost, or at all, also may be adversely impacted. the solid waste industry is a capital-intensive industry and the amount we spend on capital expenditures may exceed current expectations, which could require us to obtain additional funding for our operations or impair our ability to grow our business. our ability to remain competitive and to grow and expand our operations largely depends on our cash flow from operations and access to capital. if our capital efficiency programs are unable to offset the impact of inflation and business growth, it may be necessary to increase the amount we spend. additionally, if we make acquisitions or further expand our operations, the amount we expend on capital, capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation expenditures will increase. our cash needs also will increase if the expenditures for capping, closure, post-closure and remediation activities increase above our current estimates, which may 19 table of contents occur over a long period due to changes in federal, state or local government requirements and other factors beyond our control. increases in expenditures would negatively impact our cash flows. over the last several years, regulations have been adopted mandating the reduction of vehicle tail pipe emissions. in may 2010, the epa and the national highway traffic safety administration ( nhtsa ) finalized the first u.s. standards for ghg emissions from conventional automobiles, including large pick-up trucks. these regulations include increased fuel economy requirements and apply to new motor vehicles covering model years 2012 through 2016. we do not expect that this final rule will lead to a material increase in our capital costs. later in 2010 the epa and the nhtsa proposed rules expanding the scope of ghg emission standards for motor vehicles to include heavy duty vehicles, including solid waste collection vehicles and tractor trailers. these rules would similarly include increased fuel economy standards for such vehicles and would apply to new heavy-duty motor vehicles covering model years 2014 through 2018. because the rule is still in the proposal stage, we cannot predict its effect on us but it could increase our capital costs. this also could cause an increase in vehicle operating costs or a reduction in operating efficiency. we may be unable to obtain or maintain required permits or to expand existing permitted capacity of our landfills, which could decrease our revenue and increase our costs. we cannot assure you that we will successfully obtain or maintain the permits we require to operate our business because permits to operate non-hazardous solid waste landfills and to expand the permitted capacity of existing landfills have become more difficult and expensive to obtain and maintain. permits often take years to obtain as a result of numerous hearings and compliance requirements with regard to zoning, environmental and other regulations. these permits are also often subject to resistance from citizen or other groups and other political pressures. local communities and citizen groups, adjacent landowners or governmental agencies may oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we may need, allege violations of the permits under which we currently operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. responding to these challenges has, at times, increased our costs and extended the time associated with establishing new facilities and expanding existing facilities. in addition, failure to receive regulatory and zoning approval may prohibit us from establishing new facilities or expanding existing facilities. our failure to obtain the required permits to operate our non-hazardous solid waste landfills could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, we may have to dispose collected waste at landfills operated by our competitors or haul the waste long distances at a higher cost to one of our other landfills, either of which could significantly increase our waste disposal costs. the waste industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and existing or future regulations may restrict our operations, increase our costs of operations or require us to make additional capital expenditures. if we inadequately accrue for landfill capping, closure and post-closure costs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. a landfill must be closed and capped, and post-closure maintenance commenced, once the permitted capacity of the landfill is reached and additional capacity is not authorized. we have significant financial obligations relating to capping, closure and post-closure costs at our existing owned or operated landfills, and will have material financial obligations with respect to any future owned or operated landfills. we establish accruals for the estimated costs associated with capping, closure and post-closure financial obligations. we could underestimate such accruals, and our financial obligations for capping, closure or post-closure costs could exceed the amount accrued or amounts otherwise receivable pursuant to trust funds established for this purpose. such a shortfall could result in significant unanticipated charges to income. additionally, if a landfill is required to be closed earlier than expected or its remaining airspace is reduced for any other reason, the accruals for capping, closure and post-closure could be required to be accelerated, which could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 20 table of contents we cannot assure you that we will continue to operate our landfills at current volumes due to the use of alternatives to landfill disposal caused by state requirements or voluntary initiatives. most of the states in which we operate landfills require counties and municipalities to formulate comprehensive plans to reduce the volume of solid waste deposited in landfills through waste planning, composting and recycling, or other programs. some state and local governments mandate waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of wastes, such as yard waste, at landfills. although such actions are useful in protecting our environment, these actions, as well as voluntary private initiatives by customers to reduce waste or seek disposal alternatives, have reduced and will in the future reduce the volume of waste going to landfills. accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to operate our landfills at their current volumes or charge current prices for landfill disposal services due to the decrease in demand for such services. the possibility of landfill and transfer station site development projects, expansion projects or pending acquisitions not being completed or certain other events could result in a material charge to income. we capitalize certain expenditures relating to development, expansion and other projects. if a facility or operation is permanently shut down or determined to be impaired, or a development or expansion project is not completed or is determined to be impaired, we will charge any unamortized capitalized expenditures to income relating to such facility or project that we are unable to recover through sale, transfer or otherwise. in future periods, we may incur charges against earnings in accordance with this policy, or other events may cause impairments. such charges could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to costly environmental regulations and flow-control regulations that may affect our operating margins, restrict our operations and subject us to additional liability. complying with laws and regulations governing the use, treatment, storage, transfer and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and materials, air quality, water quality and the remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances is costly. laws and regulations often require us to enhance or replace our equipment and to modify landfill operations or initiate final closure of a landfill. we cannot assure you that we will be able to implement price increases sufficient to offset the costs of complying with these laws and regulations. in addition, environmental regulatory changes could accelerate or increase expenditures for capping, closure and post-closure, and environmental and remediation activities at solid waste facilities and obligate us to spend sums in addition to those presently accrued for such purposes. our collection, transfer, and landfill operations are, and may in the future continue to be, affected by state or local laws or regulations that restrict the transportation of solid waste across state, county or other jurisdictional lines or that direct the flow of waste to a specified facility. such laws and regulations could negatively affect our operations, resulting in declines in landfill volumes and increased costs of alternate disposal. in addition to the costs of complying with environmental regulations, we incur costs to defend against litigation brought by government agencies and private parties who allege we are in violation of our permits and applicable environmental laws and regulations, or who assert claims alleging environmental damage, personal injury or property damage. as a result, we may be required to pay fines or implement corrective measures, or we may have our permits and licenses modified or revoked. a significant judgment against us, the loss of a significant permit or license, or the imposition of a significant fine could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we establish accruals for our estimates of the costs associated with our environmental obligations. we could underestimate such accruals and remediation costs could exceed amounts accrued. such shortfalls could result in significant unanticipated charges to income. 21 table of contents regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could impose costs on our operations, the magnitude of which we cannot yet estimate. efforts to curtail the emission of greenhouse gases (ghgs) and to ameliorate the effects of climate change continue to be debated on the federal, regional, and state level. our landfill operations emit methane, identified as a ghg, and our vehicle fleets emit, among others, carbon dioxide, which has also been identified as a ghg. conventional wisdom now suggests that passage of comprehensive, federal climate change legislation is highly unlikely. nonetheless, should comprehensive federal climate change legislation be enacted, we expect it to impose costs on our operations, the materiality of which we cannot predict. absent comprehensive federal legislation to control ghg emissions, epa is moving ahead administratively under its existing clean air act authority. in october 2009, epa published a proposed prevention of significant deterioration and title v greenhouse gas tailoring rule (psd tailoring rule). epa finalized the psd tailoring rule on may 13, 2010. the finalized psd tailoring rule establishes new thresholds for ghg emissions that define when clean air act permits would be required and would tailor these programs to limit which facilities would be required to obtain permits. epa legal authority to tailor this rule has been challenged. as of january 2, 2011, some of our landfills became subject to the psd tailoring rule, which requires permit amendments and could require additional emission controls for ghgs when modifications are made to these landfills, which could increase our costs. on october 25, 2010, epa and the department of transportation national highway traffic safety administration (nhtsa), proposed rules to reduce ghg emissions from medium and heavy duty vehicles. these proposed rules, if finalized, would impose higher fuel economy standards of heavy duty vehicles. as such, the proposed rules could require us to expend additional capital on our vehicle fleet. in addition to the obligations imposed by the psd tailoring rule, as a result of epa finding that six ghgs endanger public health in december 2009 epa may impose additional ghg emissions controls on stationary sources. while epa made its finding in the context of regulating air emissions from motor vehicles, now that it has made the endangerment finding, other provisions of the clean air act provide epa with the authority to impose further regulations upon stationary sources of ghg emissions, including landfills. we cannot predict the requirements or effective date of any additional stationary source rules that might apply to landfills as a result of the endangerment finding and, accordingly, we cannot assure you that further developments in this area will not have a material effect on our landfill operations or on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. we may have potential environmental liabilities that are not covered by our insurance. changes in insurance markets also may impact our financial results. we may incur liabilities for the deterioration of the environment as a result of our operations. we maintain high deductibles for our environmental liability insurance coverage. if we were to incur substantial liability for environmental damage, our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover such liability. this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. also, due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we may experience future increases in self-insurance levels as a result of increased retention levels and increased premiums. as we assume more risk for self-insurance through higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in our self-insurance reserves and expense. despite our efforts, we may incur additional hazardous substances liability in excess of amounts presently known and accrued. we are a potentially responsible party at many sites under cercla, which provides for the remediation of contaminated facilities and imposes strict, joint and several liability for the cost of remediation on current owners and operators of a facility at which there has been a release or a threatened release of a hazardous substance. cercla liability also extends to parties who were site owners and operators at the time hazardous substances were disposed, and on persons who arrange for the disposal of such substances at the facility (i.e., 22 table of contents generators of the waste and transporters who selected the disposal site). hundreds of substances are defined as hazardous under cercla and their presence, even in minute amounts, can result in substantial liability. notwithstanding our efforts to comply with applicable regulations and to avoid transporting and receiving hazardous substances, we may have additional liability under cercla, or similar state laws or rcra, in excess of our current reserves because such substances may be present in waste collected by us or disposed of in our landfills, or in waste collected, transported or disposed of in the past by companies we have acquired. actual costs for these liabilities could be significantly greater than amounts presently accrued for these purposes, which could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. we are, and from time to time become, involved in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of our business. many of these matters raise difficult and complicated factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties and complexities. the timing of the final resolutions to lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings is uncertain. additionally, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments, adversely affecting our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be unable to manage our growth effectively. our growth strategy places significant demands on our financial, operational and management resources. to continue our growth, we may need to add administrative and other personnel, and will need to make additional investments in operations and systems. we cannot assure you that we will be able to find and train qualified personnel, or do so on a timely basis, or expand our operations and systems to the extent, and in the time, required. we may be unable to execute our acquisition growth strategy. our ability to execute our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to identify and acquire desirable acquisition candidates as well as our ability to successfully consolidate acquired operations into our business. the consolidation of our operations with those of acquired companies may present significant challenges to our management. in addition, competition among our competitors for acquisition candidates may prevent us from acquiring certain acquisition candidates. as such, we cannot assure you that: desirable acquisition candidates exist or will be identified; we will be able to acquire any of the candidates identified; we will effectively consolidate companies we acquire; or any acquisitions will be profitable or accretive to our earnings. if any of the aforementioned factors force us to alter our growth strategy, our growth prospects could be adversely affected. businesses we acquire may have undisclosed liabilities. in pursuing our acquisition strategy, our due diligence investigations of the acquisition candidates may fail to discover certain undisclosed liabilities of the acquisition candidates. if we acquire a company having undisclosed liabilities such as environmental, remediation or contractual, as a successor owner we may be responsible for such undisclosed liabilities. we expect to try to minimize our exposure to such liabilities by conducting due diligence, by obtaining indemnification from each of the sellers of the acquired companies, by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase price as security for the indemnification and by acquiring only specified assets. however, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain indemnification or that any 23 table of contents indemnification obtained will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any undisclosed liabilities arising from our acquisitions. our consolidated financial statements are based on estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap and necessarily include amounts based on estimates and assumptions made by management. actual results could differ from these amounts. significant items requiring management to make subjective or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain include the carrying value of long-lived assets, the depletion and amortization of landfill development costs, accruals for final capping, closure and post-closure costs, valuation allowances for accounts receivable and deferred tax assets, liabilities for potential litigation, claims and assessments, and liabilities for environmental remediation, employee benefit and pension plans, deferred taxes, uncertain tax positions and self-insurance. we cannot assure you that the liabilities recorded for landfill and environmental costs will be adequate to cover the requirements of existing environmental regulations, future changes to or interpretations of existing regulations, or the identification of adverse environmental conditions previously unknown to management. the introduction of new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our results of operations. complying with new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our results of operations in future periods. we may be subject to workforce influences, including work stoppages, which could increase our operating costs and disrupt our operations. as of december 31, 2010, approximately 27% of our workforce was represented by various local labor unions. if our unionized workers were to engage in strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and an increase in our operating costs, which could have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additional groups of employees may seek union representation in the future and, if successful, the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements could divert management attention and result in increased operating costs. if a greater percentage of our workforce becomes unionized, our business and financial results could be materially and adversely impacted due to the potential for increased operating costs. our obligation to fund multi-employer pension plans to which we contribute may have an adverse impact on us. we contribute to at least 28 multi-employer pension plans covering at least 22% of our current employees. we do not administer these plans and generally are not represented on the boards of trustees of these plans. the pension protection act enacted in 2006 (the ppa) requires under-funded pension plans to improve their funding ratios. based on the information available to us, we believe that some of the multi-employer plans to which we contribute are either critical or endangered as those terms are defined in the ppa. we cannot determine at this time the amount of additional funding, if any, we may be required to make to these plans and, therefore, have not recorded any related liabilities. however, plan assessments could have an adverse impact on our results of operations or cash flows for a given period. furthermore, under current law, upon the termination of a multi-employer pension plan, or in the event of a withdrawal by us (which we consider from time to time) or a mass withdrawal of contributing employers (each, a withdrawal event ), we would be required to make payments to the plan for our proportionate share of the plan unfunded vested liabilities. we cannot assure you that there will not be a withdrawal event with respect to any of the multi-employer pension plans to which we contribute or that, in the event of such a withdrawal event, the amounts we would be 24 table of contents required to contribute would not have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the costs of providing for pension benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in pension fund values and fluctuating actuarial assumptions, and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we sponsor a defined benefit pension plan which is funded with trustee assets invested in a diversified portfolio of debt and equity securities. our costs for providing such benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in the market value of plan assets. our pension expenses and related funding requirements are also subject to various actuarial calculations and assumptions, which may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, interest rates and other factors. a significant increase in our pension obligations and funding requirements could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects. our future success depends on the continued contributions of several key employees and officers. the loss of the services of key employees and officers, whether such loss is through resignation or other causes, or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 76 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our major market risk exposure of our financial instruments is changing interest rates in the united states and fluctuations in libor. we intend to manage interest rate risk through the use of a combination of fixed and floating rate debt. the carrying value of our variable rate debt approximates fair value because interest rates are variable and, accordingly, approximates current market rates for instruments with similar risk and maturities. the fair value of our debt is determined as of the balance sheet date and is subject to change. the 76 table of contents table below provides information about certain of our market-sensitive financial instruments and constitutes a forward-looking statement. expected maturity date fair value of (asset)/ liability as of december 31, 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter total 2010 fixed rate debt: amount outstanding (in millions) $ 872.0 $ 30.2 $ 5.6 $ 16.0 $ 25.7 $ 5,152.1 $ 6,101.6 $ 6,063.6 average interest rates 6.4 % 5.4 % 7.6 % 6.1 % 5.8 % 6.1 % 6.1 % variable rate debt amount outstanding (in millions) $ - $ 50.0 $ 35.0 $ - $ - $ 856.5 $ 941.5 $ 941.5 average interest rates - % 1.6 % 1.3 % - % - % 1.2 % 1.2 % interest rate swaps: fixed to variable notional amount (in millions) $ 210.0 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 210.0 $ 5.2 average pay rate 2.6 % - % - % - % - % - % 2.6 % average receive rate 6.8 % - % - % - % - % - % 6.8 % the fixed and variable rate debt amounts above exclude the remaining non-cash discounts, premiums, adjustments to fair value related to hedging transactions and adjustments to fair value recorded in purchase accounting totaling $274.0 million. fuel price risk fuel costs represent a significant operating expense. when economically practical, we may enter into new or renew contracts, or engage in other strategies to mitigate market risk. where appropriate, we have implemented a fuel recovery fee that is designed to recover our fuel costs. while we charge these fees to a majority of our customers, we are unable to charge such fees to all customers. consequently, an increase in fuel costs results in (1) an increase in our cost of operations, (2) a smaller increase in our revenue (from the fuel recovery fee) and (3) a decrease in our operating margin percentage, because the increase in revenue is more than offset by the increase in cost. conversely, a decrease in fuel costs results in (1) a decrease in our cost of operations, (2) a smaller decrease in our revenue and (3) an increase in our operating margin percentage. at our current consumption levels, a one-cent change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel costs by approximately $1.5 million on an annual basis, which would be partially offset by a smaller change in the fuel recovery fees charged to our customers. accordingly, a substantial rise or drop in fuel costs could result in a material impact to our revenue and cost of operations. our operations also require the use of certain petrochemical-based products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of petrochemicals. an increase in the price of petrochemicals could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs. we are also susceptible to increases in indirect fuel surcharges from our vendors. commodities prices we market recycled products such as cardboard and newspaper from our material recycling facilities. as a result, changes in the market prices of these items will impact our results of operations. revenue from sales of these products in 2010, 2009 and 2008 were approximately $307.1 million, $181.2 million and $121.1 million, respectively. 77 table of contentsrisk factors 13 , risk factors. operating strategy we seek to leverage existing assets and revenue growth to increase operating margins and enhance shareholder value. our operating strategy for accomplishing this goal includes the following: utilize the extensive industry knowledge and experience of our executive management team, utilize a decentralized management structure in overseeing day-to-day operations, integrate waste operations, improve operating margins through economies of scale, cost efficiencies and asset utilization, achieve high levels of customer satisfaction, and utilize business information systems to improve consistency in financial and operational performance. for certain risks related to our operating strategy, see item 1a., risk factors. experienced executive management team. we believe that we have one of the most experienced executive management teams in the solid waste industry. james e. o connor, who has served as our chief executive officer since december 1998, also became our chairman in january 2003. he worked at waste management, inc. from 1972 to 1978 and from 1982 to 1998. during that time, he served in various management positions, including senior vice president in 1997 and 1998, and area president of waste management of florida, inc. from 1992 to 1997. mr. o connor has over 32 years of experience in the solid waste industry. 3 table of contents michael j. cordesman, who has served as our chief operating officer since march 2002 and also as our president since february 2003, has over 26 years of experience in the solid waste industry. he joined us in june 2001 as our eastern region vice president. from 1999 to 2001, mr. cordesman served as vice president of the central region for superior services inc. from 1980 to 1999, he served in various positions with waste management, inc., including vice president of the mid-atlantic region from 1992 to 1999. the other corporate officers with responsibility for our operations have an average of over 25 years of management experience in the solid waste industry. our five regional vice presidents and our 23 area presidents have an average of 24 years of experience in the industry. in addition, harris w. hudson, who has served as our vice chairman since our initial public offering in 1998, has over 42 years of experience in the solid waste industry, including 11 years with waste management, inc. and 19 years with private waste collection companies. decentralized management structure. we maintain a relatively small corporate headquarters staff, relying on a decentralized management structure to minimize administrative overhead costs and to manage our day-to-day operations more efficiently. our local management has extensive industry experience in growing, operating and managing solid waste companies and has substantial experience in their local geographic markets. each regional management team includes a vice president, controller, sales manager, maintenance manager and an operations manager. we believe that our strong regional management teams allow us to more effectively and efficiently drive our company initiatives and help ensure consistency throughout our organization. our regional management teams and our area presidents have extensive authority, responsibility and autonomy for operations within their respective geographic markets. compensation for our area management teams is primarily based on the improvement in operating income produced and the free cash flow and return on invested capital generated in each manager geographic area of responsibility. in addition, through long-term incentive programs, including stock options, we believe we have one of the lowest turnover levels in the industry for our local management teams. as a result of retaining experienced managers with extensive knowledge of and involvement in their local communities, we are proactive in anticipating our customers needs and adjusting to changes in our markets. we also seek to implement the best practices of our various regions and areas throughout our operations to improve operating margins. integrated operations. we seek to achieve a high rate of internalization by controlling waste streams from the point of collection through disposal. we expect that our fully integrated markets generally will have a lower cost of operations and more favorable cash flows than our non-integrated markets. through acquisitions and other market development activities, we create market-specific, integrated operations typically consisting of one or more collection companies, transfer stations and landfills. we consider acquiring companies that own or operate landfills with significant permitted disposal capacity and appropriate levels of waste volume. we also seek to acquire solid waste collection companies in markets in which we own or operate landfills. in addition, we generate internal growth in our disposal operations by developing new landfills and expanding our existing landfills from time to time in markets in which we have significant collection operations or in markets that we determine lack sufficient disposal capacity. during the three months ended december 31, 2006, approximately 56% of the total volume of waste that we collected was disposed of at landfills we own or operate. in a number of our larger markets, we and our competitors are required to take waste to government-controlled disposal facilities. this provides us with an opportunity to effectively compete in these markets without investing in landfill capacity. because we do not have landfill facilities or government-controlled disposal facilities for all markets in which we provide collection services, we believe that through landfill and transfer station acquisitions and development we have the opportunity to increase our waste internalization rate and further integrate our operations. by further integrating operations in existing markets through acquisitions and development of landfills and transfer stations, we may be able to reduce our disposal costs. economies of scale, cost efficiencies and asset utilization. to improve operating margins, our management focuses on achieving economies of scale and cost efficiencies. the consolidation of acquired 4 table of contents businesses into existing operations reduces costs by decreasing capital and expenses used for routing, personnel, equipment and vehicle maintenance, inventories and back-office administration. generally, we consolidate our acquired administrative centers to reduce our general and administrative costs. our goal is to maintain our selling, general and administrative costs at approximately 10% of revenue, which we feel is appropriate given our existing business platform. in addition, our size allows our company to negotiate volume discounts for certain purchases, including waste disposal rates at landfills operated by third parties. furthermore, we have taken steps to increase utilization of our assets. for example, to reduce the number of collection vehicles and maximize the efficiency of our fleet, we have instituted a grid productivity program which allows us to benchmark the performance of all of our drivers. in our larger markets, we also use a route optimization program to minimize drive times and improve operating density. by using assets more efficiently, operating expenses can be reduced. high levels of customer satisfaction. our goal of maintaining high levels of customer satisfaction complements our operating strategy. our personalized sales process is oriented towards maintaining relationships and ensuring that service is being properly provided. utilize systems to improve consistency in financial and operational performance. we continue to focus on systems and training initiatives that complement our operating strategy. these initiatives include contact management, billing, productivity, maintenance, general ledger and human resource systems. these systems provide us with detailed information, prepared in a consistent manner, that allows us to quickly analyze and act upon trends in our business. for certain risks related to our operating strategy, see item 1a., risk factors. growth strategy our growth strategy focuses on increasing revenue, gaining market share and enhancing shareholder value through internal growth and acquisitions. for certain risks related to our growth strategy, see item 1a., risk factors. internal growth. our internal growth strategy focuses on retaining existing customers and obtaining commercial, municipal and industrial customers through our well-managed sales and marketing activities. pricing activities. we seek to secure price increases necessary to offset increased costs. during 2006, we continued to secure broad-based price increases across all lines of our business to offset various escalating capital and operating costs, including fuel. price increases will remain a major component of our overall future operating strategy. long-term contracts. we seek to obtain long-term contracts for collecting solid waste in high-growth markets. these include exclusive franchise agreements with municipalities as well as commercial and industrial contracts. by obtaining such long-term agreements, we have the opportunity to grow our contracted revenue base at the same rate as the underlying population growth in these markets. for example, we have secured exclusive, long-term franchise agreements in high-growth markets such as los angeles, orange and contra costa counties in california, las vegas, nevada, arlington, texas, and many areas of florida. we believe that this positions our company to experience internal growth rates that are generally higher than our industry overall growth rate. in addition, we believe that by securing a base of long-term recurring revenue in growth markets, we are better able to protect our market position from competition and our business may be less susceptible to downturns in economic conditions. sales and marketing activities. we seek to manage our sales and marketing activities to enable our company to capitalize on our leading position in many of the markets in which we operate. we currently have approximately 500 sales and marketing employees in the field who are compensated using a commission structure that is focused on generating high levels of quality revenue. for the most part, these employees directly solicit business from existing and prospective commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers. we emphasize our rate and cost structures when we train new and existing sales personnel. in addition, we utilize a contact management system that assists our sales people in tracking leads. it also tracks renewal periods for potential commercial, industrial and franchise contracts. 5 table of contents development activities. we seek to identify opportunities to further our position as an integrated service provider in markets where we provide services for a portion of the waste stream. where appropriate, we seek to obtain permits to build transfer stations and/or landfills that would provide vertically integrated waste services or expand the service areas for our existing disposal sites. development projects, while generally less capital intensive, typically require extensive permitting efforts that can take years to complete with no assurance of success. we undertake development projects when we believe there is a reasonable probability of success and where reasonably priced acquisition opportunities are not available. acquisition growth. during the late 1990s, the solid waste industry experienced a period of rapid consolidation. we were able to grow significantly through acquisitions during this period. however, the rate of consolidation in the industry has slowed considerably. despite this, we continue to look to acquire businesses that complement our existing business platform. our acquisition growth strategy focuses on privately held solid waste companies and municipal and other local governmental authorities. we believe that our ability to acquire privately held companies is enhanced by increasing competition in the solid waste industry, increasing capital requirements as a result of changes in solid waste regulatory requirements, and the limited number of exit strategies for these privately held companies owners and principals. we also seek to acquire operations and facilities from municipalities that are privatizing, which occurs for many of the same reasons that privately held companies sell their solid waste businesses. in addition, we will continue to evaluate opportunities to acquire operations and facilities that are being divested by other publicly owned waste companies. in sum, our acquisition growth strategy focuses on the following: acquiring businesses that position our company for growth in existing and new markets, acquiring well-managed companies and, when appropriate, retaining local management, and acquiring operations and facilities from municipalities that are privatizing and publicly owned companies that are divesting of assets. we also seek to acquire landfills, transfer stations and collection companies that operate in markets that we are already servicing in order to fully integrate our operations from collection to disposal. in addition, we have in the past and may continue in the future to exchange businesses with other solid waste companies if by doing so there is a net benefit to our business platform. these activities allow us to increase our revenue and market share, lower our cost of operations as a percentage of revenue, and consolidate duplicative facilities and functions to maximize cost efficiencies and economies of scale. for certain risks involved with our acquisition growth strategy, see item 1a., risk factors we may be unable to execute our acquisition growth strategy, we may be unable to manage our growth effectively, and businesses we acquire may have undisclosed liabilities. operations our operations primarily consist of the collection, transfer and disposal of non-hazardous solid waste. collection services. we provide solid waste collection services to commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers in 21 states through 135 collection companies. in 2006, 75.5% of our revenue was derived from collection services. within the collection line of business, 31.7% of our revenue is from services provided to municipal and residential customers, 37.1% is from services provided to commercial customers, and 31.2% is from services provided to industrial and other customers. our residential collection operations involve the curbside collection of refuse from small containers into collection vehicles for transport to transfer stations or directly to landfills. residential solid waste collection services are typically performed under contracts with municipalities, which we generally secure by competitive bid and which give our company exclusive rights to service all or a portion of the homes in their respective jurisdictions. these contracts or franchises usually range in duration from one to five years, although some of our exclusive franchises are for significantly longer periods. residential solid waste collection services may also be performed on a subscription basis, in which individual households contract directly with our company. the fees received for subscription residential collection are based primarily on market factors, frequency and type of service, the distance 6 table of contents to the disposal facility and cost of disposal. in general, subscription residential collection fees are paid quarterly in advance by the residential customers receiving the service. in our commercial and industrial collection operations, we supply our customers with waste containers of varying sizes. we also rent compactors to large waste generators. commercial collection services are generally performed under one- to three-year service agreements, and fees are determined by considerations such as the following: market factors, collection frequency, type of equipment furnished, the type and volume or weight of the waste collected, the distance to the disposal facility, and the cost of disposal. we rent waste containers to construction sites and also provide waste collection services to industrial and construction facilities on a contractual basis with terms generally ranging from a single pickup to one year or longer. our construction services are provided to the commercial construction and the home building sectors. we collect the containers or compacted waste and transport the waste either to a landfill or a transfer station for disposal. also, we currently provide recycling services in certain markets primarily to comply with local laws or obligations under our franchise agreements. these services include the curbside collection of residential recyclable waste and the provision of a variety of recycling services to commercial and industrial customers. transfer and disposal services. we own or operate 93 transfer stations. we deposit waste at these transfer stations, as do other private haulers and municipal haulers, for compaction and transfer to trailers for transport to disposal sites or recycling facilities. as of december 31, 2006, we owned or operated 59 landfills, which had 9,707 permitted acres and total available permitted and probable expansion disposal capacity of approximately 1.7 billion in-place cubic yards. the in-place capacity of our landfills is subject to change based on engineering factors, requirements of regulatory authorities, our ability to continue to operate our landfills in compliance with applicable regulations, and our ability to successfully obtain expansion permits at our sites. some of our landfills accept non-hazardous special waste, including utility ash, asbestos and contaminated soils. see item 2., properties. most of our existing landfill sites have the potential for expanded disposal capacity beyond the currently permitted acreage. we monitor the availability of permitted disposal capacity at each of our landfills and evaluate whether to pursue expansion at a given landfill based on estimated future waste volumes and prices, market needs, remaining capacity and likelihood of obtaining an expansion. to satisfy future disposal demand, we are currently seeking to expand permitted capacity at certain of our landfills, although no assurances can be made that all proposed or future expansions will be permitted as designed. other services. we have 33 materials recovery facilities and other recycling operations, which are generally required to fulfill our obligations under long-term municipal contracts for residential collection services. these facilities sort recyclable paper, aluminum, glass and other materials. most of these recyclable materials are internally collected by our residential collection operations. in some areas, we receive commercial and industrial solid waste that is sorted at our facilities into recyclable materials and non-recyclable waste. the recyclable materials are salvaged, repackaged and sold to third parties and the non-recyclable waste is disposed of at landfills or incinerators. wherever possible, our strategy is to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in recyclable commodity prices by utilizing third-party recycling facilities, thereby minimizing our recycling investment. we provided remediation and other heavy construction services primarily through our subsidiary located in missouri. we sold this subsidiary during the fourth quarter of 2005 because it did not complement our core business strategy. we also have a texas-based compost, mulch and soil business at which yard, mill and other waste is processed, packaged and sold as various products. 7 table of contents sales and marketing we seek to provide quality services that will enable our company to maintain high levels of customer satisfaction. we derive our business from a broad customer base, which we believe will enable our company to experience stable growth. we focus our marketing efforts on continuing and expanding business with existing customers, as well as attracting new customers. we employ approximately 500 sales and marketing employees. our sales and marketing strategy is to provide high-quality, comprehensive solid waste collection, recycling, transfer and disposal services to our customers at competitive prices. we target potential customers of all sizes, from small quantity generators to large fortune 500 companies and municipalities. most of our marketing activity is local in nature. however, we also provide a corporate accounts program in response to the needs of some of our customers. we generally do not change the tradenames of the local businesses we acquire, and therefore we do not operate nationally under any one mark or tradename. rather, we rely on the goodwill associated with the acquired companies local tradenames as used in each geographic market in which we operate. customers we provide services to commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers. no one customer has individually accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenue or of our reportable segment revenue in any of the last three years. competition we operate in a highly competitive industry. entry into our business and the ability to operate profitably in the industry requires substantial amounts of capital and managerial experience. competition in the non-hazardous solid waste industry comes from a few large, national publicly owned companies, including waste management, inc. and allied waste industries, inc., several regional publicly and privately owned solid waste companies, and thousands of small privately owned companies. some of our competitors have significantly larger operations and may have significantly greater financial resources than we do. in addition to national and regional firms and numerous local companies, we compete with municipalities that maintain waste collection or disposal operations. these municipalities may have financial advantages due to the availability of tax revenue and tax-exempt financing. we compete for collection accounts primarily on the basis of price and the quality of our services. from time to time, our competitors may reduce the price of their services in an effort to expand market share or to win a competitively bid municipal contract. this may have an impact on our future revenue and profitability. in each market in which we own or operate a landfill, we compete for landfill business on the basis of disposal costs, geographic location and quality of operations. our ability to obtain landfill business may be limited by the fact that some major collection companies also own or operate landfills to which they send their waste. there also has been an increasing trend at the state and local levels to mandate waste reduction at the source and to prohibit the disposal of certain types of waste, such as yard waste, at landfills. this may result in the volume of waste going to landfills being reduced in certain areas, which may affect our ability to operate our landfills at their full capacity and/or affect the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal services. in addition, most of the states in which we operate landfills have adopted plans or requirements that set goals for specified percentages of certain solid waste items to be recycled. regulation our facilities and operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local requirements that regulate the environment, public health, safety, zoning and land use. operating and other permits, licenses and other approvals are generally required for landfills and transfer stations, certain solid waste collection vehicles, fuel storage tanks and other facilities that we own or operate, and these permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal in 8 table of contents certain circumstances. federal, state and local laws and regulations vary, but generally govern wastewater or stormwater discharges, air emissions, the handling, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, and the remediation of contamination associated with the release or threatened release of hazardous substances. these laws and regulations provide governmental authorities with strict powers of enforcement, which include the ability to revoke or decline to renew any of our operating permits, obtain injunctions, and/or impose fines or penalties in the case of violations, including criminal penalties. the u.s. environmental protection agency and various other federal, state and local environmental, public and occupational health and safety agencies and authorities administer these regulations, including the occupational safety and health administration of the u.s. department of labor. we strive to conduct our operations in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. however, in the existing climate of heightened environmental concerns, from time to time, we have been issued citations or notices from governmental authorities that have resulted in the need to expend funds for remedial work and related activities at various landfills and other facilities. there is no assurance that citations and notices will not be issued in the future despite our regulatory compliance efforts. we have established final capping, closure, post-closure and remediation liabilities that we believe, based on currently available information, will be adequate to cover our current estimates of regulatory costs. however, we cannot assure you that actual costs will not exceed our reserves. federal regulation. the following summarizes the primary environmental, public and occupational health and safety-related statutes of the united states that affect our facilities and operations: (1) the solid waste disposal act, as amended, including the resource conservation and recovery act. rcra and its implementing regulations establish a framework for regulating the handling, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous solid waste, and require states to develop programs to ensure the safe disposal of solid waste in sanitary landfills. subtitle d of rcra establishes a framework for regulating the disposal of municipal solid waste. regulations under subtitle d currently include minimum comprehensive solid waste management criteria and guidelines, including location restrictions, facility design and operating criteria, final capping, closure and post-closure requirements, financial assurance standards, groundwater monitoring requirements and corrective action standards, many of which had not commonly been in effect or enforced in the past in connection with municipal solid waste landfills. each state was required to submit to the u.s. epa a permit program designed to implement subtitle d regulations by april 9, 1993. all of the states in which we operate have implemented permit programs pursuant to rcra and subtitle d. these state permit programs may include landfill requirements which are more stringent than those of subtitle d. our failure to comply with the environmental requirements of federal, state and local authorities at any of our locations may lead to temporary or permanent loss of an operating permit. all of our planned landfill expansions and new landfill development projects have been engineered to meet or exceed subtitle d requirements. operating and design criteria for existing operations have been modified to comply with these regulations. compliance with subtitle d regulations has resulted in increased costs and may in the future require substantial additional expenditures in addition to other costs normally associated with our waste management activities. (2) the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act of 1980, as amended. cercla, among other things, provides for the cleanup of sites from which there is a release or threatened release of a hazardous substance into the environment. cercla may impose strict joint and several liability for the costs of cleanup and for damages to natural resources upon current owners and operators of a site, parties who were owners or operators of a site at the time the hazardous substances were disposed of, parties who transported the hazardous substances to a site and parties who arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances at a site. under the authority of cercla and its implementing regulations, detailed requirements apply to the manner and degree of investigation and remediation of facilities and sites where hazardous substances have been or are threatened to be released into the environment. liability under cercla is not dependent on the existence or disposal of only hazardous wastes but can also be based upon the existence of small quantities of more than 700 substances characterized by the u.s. epa as hazardous, many of which may be found in common household waste. 9 table of contents among other things, cercla authorizes the federal government to investigate and remediate sites at which hazardous substances have been or are threatened to be released into the environment or to order (or offer an opportunity to) persons potentially liable for the cleanup of the hazardous substances to do so. in addition, the u.s. epa has established a national priorities list of sites at which hazardous substances have been or are threatened to be released and which require investigation or cleanup. liability under cercla is not dependent on the intentional disposal of hazardous waste. it can be founded upon the release or threatened release, even as a result of unintentional, non-negligent or lawful action, of thousands of hazardous substances, including very small quantities of such substances. thus, even if our landfills have never knowingly received hazardous waste as such, it is possible that one or more hazardous substances may have been deposited or released at our landfills or at other properties which we currently own or operate or may have owned or operated. therefore, we could be liable under cercla for the cost of cleaning up such hazardous substances at such sites and for damages to natural resources, even if those substances were deposited at our facilities before we acquired or operated them. the costs of a cercla cleanup can be very expensive. given the difficulty of obtaining insurance for environmental impairment liability, such liability could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. (3) the federal water pollution control act of 1972, as amended. this act regulates the discharge of pollutants from a variety of sources, including solid waste disposal sites, into streams, rivers and other waters of the united states. point source runoff from our landfills and transfer stations that is discharged into surface waters must be covered by discharge permits that generally require us to conduct sampling and monitoring, and, under certain circumstances, reduce the quantity of pollutants in those discharges. storm water discharge regulations under this act require a permit for certain construction activities and discharges from industrial operations and facilities, which may affect our operations. if a landfill or transfer station discharges wastewater through a sewage system to a publicly owned treatment works, the facility must comply with discharge limits imposed by that treatment works. in addition, states may adopt groundwater protection programs under this act or the safe drinking water act that could affect solid waste landfills. furthermore, development which alters or affects wetlands must generally be permitted prior to such development commencing, and certain mitigation requirements may be required by the permitting agencies. (4) the clean air act, as amended. the clean air act imposes limitations on emissions from various sources, including landfills. in march 1996, the u.s. epa promulgated regulations that require large municipal solid waste landfills to install landfill gas monitoring systems. these regulations apply to landfills that commenced construction, reconstruction or modification on or after may 30, 1991, and, principally, to landfills that can accommodate 2.5 million cubic meters or more of municipal solid waste. the regulations apply whether the landfill is active or closed. the date by which each affected landfill is required to have a gas collection and control system installed and made operational varies depending on calculated emission rates at the landfill. many state regulatory agencies also currently require monitoring systems for the collection and control of certain landfill gas. (5) the occupational safety and health act of 1970, as amended. this act authorizes the occupational safety and health administration of the u.s. department of labor to promulgate occupational safety and health standards. a number of these standards, including standards for notices of hazardous chemicals and the handling of asbestos, apply to our facilities and operations. state regulation. each state in which we operate has its own laws and regulations governing solid waste disposal, water and air pollution, and, in most cases, releases and cleanup of hazardous substances and liability for such matters. states also have adopted regulations governing the design, operation, maintenance and closure of landfills and transfer stations. our facilities and operations are likely to be subject to these types of requirements. in addition, our solid waste collection and landfill operations may be affected by the trend in many states toward requiring the development of solid waste reduction and recycling programs. for example, several states have enacted laws that require counties or municipalities to adopt comprehensive plans to reduce, through solid waste planning, composting, recycling or other programs, the volume of solid waste deposited in landfills. additionally, laws and regulations restricting the disposal of certain waste in solid waste landfills, including yard waste, 10 table of contents newspapers, beverage containers, unshredded tires, lead-acid batteries and household appliances, have been promulgated in several states and are being considered in others. legislative and regulatory measures to mandate or encourage waste reduction at the source and waste recycling also are or have been under consideration by the u.s. congress and the u.s. epa, respectively. in order to construct, expand and operate a landfill, one or more construction or operating permits, as well as zoning and land use approvals, must be obtained. these permits and approvals may be difficult and time-consuming to obtain and to operate in compliance with, are often opposed by neighboring landowners and citizens groups, may be subject to periodic renewal, and are subject to modification, non-renewal and revocation by the issuing agency. in connection with our acquisition of existing landfills, it may be and on occasion has been necessary for our company to expend considerable time, effort and money to bring the acquired facilities into compliance with applicable requirements and to obtain the permits and approvals necessary to increase their capacity. many of our facilities own and operate underground storage tanks which are generally used to store petroleum-based products. these tanks are generally subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that mandate their periodic testing, upgrading, closure and removal, and that, in the event of leaks, require that polluted groundwater and soils be remediated. we believe that all of our underground storage tanks currently meet all applicable regulations. if underground storage tanks we own or operate leak, and the leakage migrates onto the property of others, we could be liable for response costs and other damages to third parties. we are unaware of facts indicating that issues of compliance with regulations related to underground storage tanks will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. finally, with regard to our solid waste transportation operations, we are subject to the jurisdiction of the surface transportation board and are regulated by the federal highway administration, office of motor carriers, and by regulatory agencies in states that regulate such matters. various states have enacted or promulgated, or are considering enacting or promulgating, laws and regulations that would restrict the interstate transportation and processing of solid waste. in 1978, the u.s. supreme court ruled that a law that restricts the importation of out-of-state solid waste was unconstitutional; however, states have attempted to distinguish proposed laws from those involved in and implicated by that ruling. in 1994, the supreme court ruled that a flow control law, which attempted to restrict solid waste from leaving its place of generation, imposed an impermissible burden upon interstate commerce, and, therefore, was unconstitutional; however, states have also attempted to distinguish proposed laws from those involved in and implicated by that ruling. in response to these supreme court rulings, the u.s. congress has considered passing legislation authorizing state and local governments to restrict the free movement of solid waste in interstate commerce. if federal legislation authorizing state and local governments to restrict the free movement of solid waste in interstate commerce is enacted, such legislation could adversely affect our operations. we have established liabilities for landfill and environmental costs, which include landfill site final capping, closure and post-closure costs. we periodically reassess such costs based on various methods and assumptions regarding landfill airspace and the technical requirements of subtitle d of rcra and adjust our rates used to expense final capping, closure and post-closure costs accordingly. based on current information and regulatory requirements, we believe that our liabilities recorded for such landfill and environmental expenditures are adequate. however, environmental laws may change, and there can be no assurance that our recorded liabilities will be adequate to cover requirements under existing or new environmental laws and regulations, future changes or interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or the identification of adverse environmental conditions previously unknown to us. liability insurance and bonding the nature of our business exposes our company to the risk of liabilities arising out of our operations, including possible damages to the environment. such potential liabilities could involve, for example, claims for remediation costs, personal injury, property damage and damage to the environment in cases where we may be held responsible for the escape of harmful materials; claims of employees, customers or third parties for personal injury or property damage occurring in the course of our operations; or claims alleging negligence in the planning or performance of work. we could also be subject to fines and civil and criminal penalties in connection with alleged violations of 11 table of contents regulatory requirements. because of the nature and scope of the possible environmental damages, liabilities imposed in environmental litigation can be significant. our solid waste operations have third-party environmental liability insurance with limits in excess of those required by permit regulations, subject to certain limitations and exclusions. however, we cannot assure you that the limits of such environmental liability insurance would be adequate in the event of a major loss, nor can we assure you that we would continue to carry excess environmental liability insurance should market conditions in the insurance industry make such coverage costs prohibitive. we have general liability, vehicle liability, employment practices liability, pollution liability, directors and officers liability, worker compensation and employer liability coverage, as well as umbrella liability policies to provide excess coverage over the underlying limits contained in these primary policies. we also carry property insurance. although we try to operate safely and prudently and while we have, subject to limitations and exclusions, substantial liability insurance, no assurance can be given that we will not be exposed to uninsured liabilities which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our insurance programs for worker compensation, general liability, vehicle liability and employee-related health care benefits are effectively self-insured. claims in excess of self-insurance levels are fully insured subject to policy limits. accruals are based on claims filed and actuarial estimates of claims development and claims incurred but not reported. due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we have experienced, and may continue to experience in the future, increased self-insurance retention levels and increased premiums. as we assume more risk for self-insurance through higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in our self-insurance reserves and expense. in the normal course of business, we may be required to post performance bonds, insurance policies, letters of credit and/or cash or marketable securities deposits in connection with municipal residential collection contracts, the operation, closure or post-closure of landfills, certain remediation contracts, certain environmental permits, and certain business licenses and permits as a financial guarantee of our performance. to date, we have satisfied financial responsibility requirements by making cash or marketable securities deposits or by obtaining bank letters of credit, insurance policies or surety bonds. employees as of december 31, 2006, we employed approximately 13,000 full-time employees, approximately 3,500 of whom were covered by collective bargaining agreements. our management believes that we have good relations with our employees. compensation we believe that our compensation program effectively aligns our field and corporate management team with the company overall goal of generating increasing amounts of free cash flow while achieving targeted earnings and returns on invested capital. this is done by utilizing simple and measurable metrics on which incentive pay is based. at the field level, these metrics are based on free cash flow, earnings and return on invested capital for each manager geographic area of responsibility. great effort is taken to ensure that these goals agree with the overall goals of the company. incentive compensation at the corporate level is based on the obtainment of our company overall goals. in addition, certain field and corporate employees also participate in a long-term incentive program. we believe this program aligns our company short- and long-term goals and helps ensure that the long-term success of our company is not sacrificed for the obtainment of short-term goals. availability of reports and other information our corporate website is http://www.republicservices.com. we make available on this website, free of charge, access to our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy statement on schedule 14a and amendments to those materials filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities and exchange act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically submit such material to the securities and exchange commission. our corporate website also contains our corporate governance guidelines, code of ethics and charters of the nominating and corporate governance committee, audit committee and compensation committee of the board of directors. in addition, the commission website is 12 table of contents http://www.sec.gov. the commission makes available on this website, free of charge, reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, such as us, that file electronically with the commission. information on our website or the commission website is not part of this document. item 1a. risk factors risk factors this annual report on form 10-k includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, including, in particular, certain statements about our plans, strategies and prospects. although we believe that our plans, intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by such forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that such plans, intentions or expectations will be achieved. important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements include those set forth in this risk factors section. all forward-looking statements attributable to us or any persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements set forth below. unless the context requires otherwise, all references to the company, we, us or our include republic services, inc. and its subsidiaries. if any of the following risks, or other risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe to not be significant, develop into actual events, then our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. we operate in a highly competitive industry and may be unable to compete effectively. we operate in a highly competitive business environment. some of our competitors have significantly larger operations and may have significantly greater financial resources than we do. in addition, the solid waste industry is constantly changing as a result of consolidation which may create additional competitive pressures in our business environment. we also compete with municipalities that maintain their own waste collection or disposal operations. these municipalities may have a financial advantage over us as a result of the availability of tax revenue and tax-exempt financing. we compete for collection accounts primarily on the basis of price and the quality of services. from time to time, our competitors may reduce the price of their services in an effort to expand their market share or to win competitively bid municipal contracts. in each market in which we own or operate a landfill, we compete for solid waste volume on the basis of disposal or tipping fees, geographic location and quality of operations. our ability to obtain solid waste volume for our landfills may be limited by the fact that some major collection companies also own or operate landfills to which they send their waste. in markets in which we do not own or operate a landfill, our collection operations may operate at a disadvantage to fully integrated competitors. as a result of these factors, we may have difficulty competing effectively from time to time. economic conditions could adversely affect our business, operations and internal growth. previous economic slowdowns have negatively impacted the portion of our collection business servicing the manufacturing sector and the residential and non-residential construction industries. landfill volumes attributable to manufacturing and construction activity have also been impacted. a slowdown in the economy in any of the markets we service could adversely affect volumes, pricing and operating margins in our collection, transfer and disposal operations. an increase in the price of fuel may adversely affect our business. our operations are dependent on fuel, which we generally purchase in the open market on a daily basis. direct fuel costs include the cost of fuel and other petroleum-based products used to operate our fleet of vehicles and heavy equipment. we are also susceptible to increases in indirect fuel costs which include fuel surcharges from vendors, 13 table of contents increased construction and excavation costs, and increases in the costs of other petroleum-based products such as synthetic landfill liners. during 2006, 2005 and 2004, we experienced significant increases in the cost of fuel and other petroleum-based products. a portion of these increases was passed on to our customers. however, because of the competitive nature of the waste industry, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass on current or future increases in fuel prices to our customers. due to a number of factors including political instability in oil-producing countries, fuel prices may continue to fluctuate significantly in 2007. a significant increase in fuel costs could adversely affect our business. we may be unable to execute our financial strategy. our ability to execute our financial strategy is dependent upon our ability to maintain an investment grade rating on our senior debt. the credit rating process is contingent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. our financial strategy is also dependent upon our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to reinvest in our existing business, fund our internal growth, acquire other solid waste businesses, repurchase shares of our common stock, pay dividends, minimize our borrowings and take other actions to enhance shareholder value. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in executing our broad-based pricing program, that we will generate sufficient cash flow to execute our financial strategy, that we will continue to repurchase our common stock, or that we will be able to pay cash dividends or increase the amount of our dividends. we may be unable to manage our growth effectively. our growth strategy places significant demands on our financial, operational and management resources. in order to continue our growth, we will need to add administrative and other personnel, and make additional investments in operations and systems. we cannot assure you that we will be able to find and train qualified personnel, or do so on a timely basis, or expand our operations and systems to the extent, and in the time, required. we may be unable to execute our acquisition growth strategy. our ability to execute our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to identify and acquire desirable acquisition candidates as well as our ability to successfully consolidate acquired operations into our business. the consolidation of our operations with the operations of acquired companies, including the consolidation of systems, procedures, personnel and facilities, the relocation of staff, and the achievement of anticipated cost savings, economies of scale and other business efficiencies, presents significant challenges to our management, particularly if several acquisitions occur at the same time. we cannot assure you that: desirable acquisition candidates exist or will be identified, we will be able to acquire any of the candidates identified, we will effectively consolidate companies which are acquired and fully or timely realize expected cost savings, economies of scale or business efficiencies, or any acquisitions will be profitable or accretive to our earnings. additional factors may negatively impact our acquisition growth strategy. our acquisition strategy may require spending significant amounts of capital. if we are unable to obtain additional needed financing on acceptable terms, we may need to reduce the scope of our acquisition growth strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects. the intense competition among our competitors pursuing the same acquisition candidates may increase purchase prices for solid waste businesses and increase our capital requirements and/or prevent us from acquiring certain acquisition candidates. if any of the aforementioned factors force us to alter our growth strategy, our growth prospects could be adversely affected. businesses we acquire may have undisclosed liabilities. in pursuing our acquisition strategy, our investigations of the acquisition candidates may fail to discover certain undisclosed liabilities of the acquisition candidates. if we acquire a company having undisclosed liabilities, 14 table of contents as a successor owner we may be responsible for such undisclosed liabilities. we typically try to minimize our exposure to such liabilities by obtaining indemnification from each seller of the acquired companies, by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase price as security for the indemnification and by acquiring only specified assets. however, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain indemnifications or that they will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any undisclosed liabilities arising from our acquisitions. our financial statements are based on estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles and necessarily include amounts based on estimates and assumptions made by us. actual results could differ from these amounts. significant items subject to such estimates and assumptions include the carrying value of long-lived assets, the depletion and amortization of landfill development costs, accruals for final capping, closure and post-closure costs, valuation allowances for accounts receivable, liabilities for potential litigation, claims and assessments, and liabilities for environmental remediation, deferred taxes and self-insurance. we cannot assure you that our liabilities recorded for landfill and environmental costs will be adequate to cover the requirements of existing environmental regulations, future changes to or interpretations of existing regulations, or the identification of adverse environmental conditions previously unknown to us. changes in insurance markets may impact our financial results. due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we have experienced, and may continue to experience in the future, increased self-insurance retention levels and increased premiums. as we assume more risk for self-insurance through higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in our self-insurance reserves and expense. we depend on key personnel. our future success depends on the continued contributions of several key employees and officers. we do not maintain key man life insurance policies on any of our officers. the loss of the services of key employees and officers, whether such loss is through resignation or other causes, or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. compliance with environmental and other laws and regulations may impede our growth and impact our financial results. we may need to spend considerable time, effort and capital to keep our facilities in compliance with federal, state and local requirements regulating health, safety, environment, zoning, land use and transportation. in addition, some of our waste operations that cross state boundaries could be adversely affected if the federal government, or the state or locality in which these waste operations are located, imposes fees on, or otherwise limits or prohibits, the transportation or disposal of solid waste. if environmental laws become more stringent, our environmental capital expenditures and costs for environmental compliance may increase in the future. in addition, due to the possibility of unanticipated events or regulatory developments, the amounts and timing of future environmental expenditures could vary substantially from those we currently anticipate. because of the nature of our operations, we have in the past, currently are, and may in the future be named as a potentially responsible party in connection with the investigation or remediation of environmental conditions. we cannot assure you that the resolution of any such investigations will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. a significant judgment or fine against our company, or our loss of significant permits or licenses due to modification, non-renewal or revocation by the issuing agency, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or growth prospects. 15 table of contents regulatory approval to develop or expand our landfills and transfer stations may be delayed or denied. our plans include developing new landfills and transfer stations, as well as expanding the disposal and transfer capacities of certain of our landfills and transfer stations, respectively. various parties, including citizens groups and local politicians, sometimes challenge these projects. responding to these challenges has, at times, increased our costs and extended the time associated with establishing new facilities and expanding existing facilities. in addition, failure to receive regulatory and zoning approval may prohibit us from establishing new facilities and expanding existing facilities. seasonal changes or severe weather may adversely affect our business and operations. our operations may be adversely affected by periods of inclement or severe weather which could increase the volume of waste collected under our existing contracts (without corresponding compensation), delay the collection and disposal of waste, reduce the volume of waste delivered to our disposal sites, or delay the construction or expansion of our landfill sites and other facilities. the outcome of audits by the internal revenue service may adversely affect our company. the internal revenue service is auditing our consolidated tax returns for fiscal years 2001 through 2004. no assurance can be given with respect to the outcome of the audits for these periods or the effect they may have on us, or that our reserves with respect thereto are adequate. a significant assessment against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the information in the quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk subsection of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation set forth in item 7 hereof. 48 table of contentsrisk factors 12 , risk factors. 2 table of contents operating strategy we seek to leverage existing assets and revenue growth to increase operating margins and enhance shareholder value. our operating strategy for accomplishing this goal includes the following: utilize the extensive industry knowledge and experience of our executive management team, utilize a decentralized management structure in overseeing day-to-day operations, integrate waste operations, improve operating margins through economies of scale, cost efficiencies and asset utilization, achieve high levels of customer satisfaction, and utilize business information systems to improve consistency in financial and operational performance. for certain risks related to our operating strategy, see item 1a., risk factors. experienced executive management team. we believe that we have one of the most experienced executive management teams in the solid waste industry. james e. o connor, who has served as our chief executive officer since december 1998, also became our chairman in january 2003. he worked at waste management, inc. from 1972 to 1978 and from 1982 to 1998. during that time, he served in various management positions, including senior vice president in 1997 and 1998, and area president of waste management of florida, inc. from 1992 to 1997. mr. o connor has over 33 years of experience in the solid waste industry. michael j. cordesman, who has served as our chief operating officer since march 2002 and also as our president since february 2003, has over 27 years of experience in the solid waste industry. he joined us in june 2001 as our eastern region vice president. from 1999 to 2001, mr. cordesman served as vice president of the central region for superior services inc. from 1980 to 1999, he served in various positions with waste management, inc., including vice president of the mid-atlantic region from 1992 to 1999. the other corporate officers with responsibility for our operations have an average of over 26 years of management experience in the solid waste industry. our five regional vice presidents and our 21 area presidents have an average of 26 years of experience in the industry. in addition, harris w. hudson, who has served as our vice chairman since our initial public offering in 1998, has over 43 years of experience in the solid waste industry, including 11 years with waste management, inc. and 19 years with private waste collection companies. decentralized management structure. we maintain a relatively small corporate headquarters staff, relying on a decentralized management structure to minimize administrative overhead costs and to manage our day-to-day operations more efficiently. our local management has extensive industry experience in growing, operating and managing solid waste companies and has substantial experience in their local geographic markets. each regional management team includes a vice president, controller, sales manager, maintenance manager and an operations manager. we believe that our strong regional management teams allow us to more effectively and efficiently drive our company initiatives and help ensure consistency throughout our organization. our regional management teams and our area presidents have extensive authority, responsibility and autonomy for operations within their respective geographic markets. compensation for our area management teams is primarily based on the improvement in operating income produced and the free cash flow and return on invested capital generated in each manager geographic area of responsibility. in addition, through long-term incentive programs, including stock options, we believe we have one of the lowest turnover levels in the industry for our local management teams. as a result of retaining experienced managers with extensive knowledge of and involvement in their local communities, we are proactive in anticipating our customers needs and adjusting to changes in our markets. we also seek to implement the best practices of our various regions and areas throughout our operations to improve operating margins. 3 table of contents integrated operations. we seek to achieve a high rate of internalization by controlling waste streams from the point of collection through disposal. we expect that our fully integrated markets generally will have a lower cost of operations and more favorable cash flows than our non-integrated markets. through acquisitions, landfill operating agreements and other market development activities, we create market-specific, integrated operations typically consisting of one or more collection companies, transfer stations and landfills. we consider acquiring companies that own or operate landfills with significant permitted disposal capacity and appropriate levels of waste volume. we also seek to acquire solid waste collection companies in markets in which we own or operate landfills. in addition, we generate internal growth in our disposal operations by developing new landfills and expanding our existing landfills from time to time in markets in which we have significant collection operations or in markets that we determine lack sufficient disposal capacity. during the three months ended december 31, 2007, approximately 58% of the total volume of waste that we collected was disposed of at landfills we own or operate. in a number of our larger markets, we and our competitors are required to take waste to government-controlled disposal facilities. this provides us with an opportunity to effectively compete in these markets without investing in landfill capacity. because we do not have landfill facilities or government-controlled disposal facilities for all markets in which we provide collection services, we believe that through landfill and transfer station acquisitions, operating agreements and development we have the opportunity to increase our waste internalization rate and further integrate our operations. by further integrating operations in existing markets through acquisitions, operating agreements and development of landfills and transfer stations, we may be able to reduce our disposal costs. economies of scale, cost efficiencies and asset utilization. to improve operating margins, our management focuses on achieving economies of scale and cost efficiencies. the consolidation of acquired businesses into existing operations reduces costs by decreasing capital and expenses used for routing, personnel, equipment and vehicle maintenance, inventories and back-office administration. generally, we consolidate our acquired administrative centers to reduce our general and administrative costs. our goal is to maintain our selling, general and administrative costs at approximately 10.0% to 10.5% of revenue, which we feel is appropriate given our existing business platform. in addition, our size allows our company to negotiate volume discounts for certain purchases, including waste disposal rates at landfills operated by third parties. furthermore, we have taken steps to increase utilization of our assets. for example, to reduce the number of collection vehicles and maximize the efficiency of our fleet, we use a grid productivity program which allows us to benchmark the performance of all of our drivers. in our larger markets, we also use a route optimization program to minimize drive times and improve operating density. by using assets more efficiently, operating expenses can be reduced. high levels of customer satisfaction. our goal of maintaining high levels of customer satisfaction complements our operating strategy. our personalized sales process is oriented towards maintaining relationships and ensuring that service is being properly provided. utilize systems to improve consistency in financial and operational performance. we continue to focus on systems and training initiatives that complement our operating strategy. these initiatives include customer relationship management, billing, productivity, maintenance, general ledger and human resource systems. these systems provide us with detailed information, prepared in a consistent manner, that allows us to quickly analyze and act upon trends in our business. for certain risks related to our operating strategy, see item 1a., risk factors. growth strategy our growth strategy focuses on increasing revenue, gaining market share and enhancing shareholder value through internal growth and acquisitions. for certain risks related to our growth strategy, see item 1a., risk factors. internal growth. our internal growth strategy focuses on retaining existing customers and obtaining commercial, municipal and industrial customers through our well-managed sales and marketing activities. 4 table of contents pricing activities. we seek to secure price increases necessary to offset increased costs and to improve our operating margins. during 2007, we continued to secure broad-based price increases across all lines of our business to offset various escalating capital and operating costs, including fuel. price increases will remain a major component of our overall future operating strategy. long-term contracts. we seek to obtain long-term contracts for collecting solid waste in high-growth markets. these include exclusive franchise agreements with municipalities as well as commercial and industrial contracts. by obtaining such long-term agreements, we have the opportunity to grow our contracted revenue base at the same rate as the underlying population growth in these markets. for example, we have secured exclusive, long-term franchise agreements in high-growth markets such as los angeles, orange and contra costa counties in california, las vegas, nevada, arlington, texas, and many areas of florida. we believe that this positions our company to experience internal growth rates that are generally higher than our industry overall growth rate. in addition, we believe that by securing a base of long-term recurring revenue in high-growth markets, we are better able to protect our market position from competition and our business may be less susceptible to downturns in economic conditions. sales and marketing activities. we seek to manage our sales and marketing activities to enable our company to capitalize on our leading position in many of the markets in which we operate. we currently have approximately 500 sales and marketing employees in the field who are compensated using a commission structure that is focused on generating high levels of quality revenue. for the most part, these employees directly solicit business from existing and prospective commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers. we emphasize our rate and cost structures when we train new and existing sales personnel. in addition, we utilize a customer relationship management system that assists our sales people in tracking leads. it also tracks renewal periods for potential commercial, industrial and franchise contracts. development activities. we seek to identify opportunities to further our position as an integrated service provider in markets where we provide services for a portion of the waste stream. where appropriate, we seek to obtain permits to build transfer stations and landfills that would provide vertically integrated waste services or expand the service areas for our existing disposal sites. development projects, while generally less capital intensive, typically require extensive permitting efforts that can take years to complete with no assurance of success. we undertake development projects when we believe there is a reasonable probability of success and where reasonably priced acquisition opportunities are not available. acquisition growth. during the late 1990s, the solid waste industry experienced a period of rapid consolidation. we were able to grow significantly through acquisitions during this period. however, the rate of consolidation in the industry has slowed considerably. despite this, we continue to look to acquire businesses that complement our existing business platform. our acquisition growth strategy focuses on privately held solid waste companies and municipal and other local governmental authorities. we believe that our ability to acquire privately held companies is enhanced by increasing competition in the solid waste industry, increasing capital requirements as a result of changes in solid waste regulatory requirements, and the limited number of exit strategies for these privately held companies owners and principals. we also seek to acquire operations and facilities from municipalities that are privatizing, which occurs for many of the same reasons that privately held companies sell their solid waste businesses. in addition, we will continue to evaluate opportunities to acquire operations and facilities that are being divested by other publicly owned waste companies. in sum, our acquisition growth strategy focuses on the following: acquiring businesses that position our company for growth in existing and new markets, acquiring well-managed companies and, when appropriate, retaining local management, and acquiring operations and facilities from municipalities that are privatizing and publicly owned companies that are divesting of assets. we also seek to acquire landfills, transfer stations and collection companies that operate in markets that we are already servicing in order to fully integrate our operations from collection to disposal. in addition, we have in the past and may continue in the future to exchange businesses with other solid waste companies if by doing so there is a net benefit to our business platform. these activities allow us to increase our revenue 5 table of contents and market share, lower our cost of operations as a percentage of revenue, and consolidate duplicative facilities and functions to maximize cost efficiencies and economies of scale. operations our operations primarily consist of the collection, transfer and disposal of non-hazardous solid waste. collection services. we provide solid waste collection services to commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers in 21 states through 136 collection companies. in 2007, 75.9% of our revenue was derived from collection services. within the collection line of business, 33.2% of our revenue is from services provided to municipal and residential customers, 39.2% is from services provided to commercial customers, and 27.6% is from services provided to industrial and other customers. our residential collection operations involve the curbside collection of refuse from small containers into collection vehicles for transport to transfer stations or directly to landfills. residential solid waste collection services are typically performed under contracts with municipalities, which we generally secure by competitive bid and which give our company exclusive rights to service all or a portion of the homes in their respective jurisdictions. these contracts or franchises usually range in duration from one to five years, although some of our exclusive franchises are for significantly longer periods. residential solid waste collection services may also be performed on a subscription basis, in which individual households contract directly with our company. the fees received for subscription residential collection are based primarily on market factors, frequency and type of service, the distance to the disposal facility and cost of disposal. in general, subscription residential collection fees are paid quarterly in advance by the residential customers receiving the service. in our commercial and industrial collection operations, we supply our customers with waste containers of varying sizes. we also rent compactors to large waste generators. commercial collection services are generally performed under one- to three-year service agreements, and fees are determined by considerations such as the following: market factors, collection frequency, type of equipment furnished, the type and volume or weight of the waste collected, the distance to the disposal facility, and the cost of disposal. we rent waste containers to construction sites and also provide waste collection services to industrial and construction facilities on a contractual basis with terms ranging from a single pickup to one year or longer. our construction services are provided to the commercial construction and home building sectors. we collect the containers or compacted waste and transport the waste either to a landfill or a transfer station for disposal. also, we provide recycling services in certain markets in compliance with local laws or the terms of our franchise agreements. these services include the curbside collection of residential recyclable waste and the provision of a variety of recycling services to commercial and industrial customers. transfer and disposal services. we own or operate 94 transfer stations. we deposit waste at these transfer stations, as do other private haulers and municipal haulers, for compaction and transfer to trailers for transport to disposal sites or recycling facilities. as of december 31, 2007, we owned or operated 58 landfills, which had 9,707 permitted acres and total available permitted and probable expansion disposal capacity of approximately 1.7 billion in-place cubic yards. the in-place capacity of our landfills is subject to change based on engineering factors, requirements of regulatory authorities, our ability to continue to operate our landfills in compliance with applicable regulations, and our ability to successfully renew operating permits and obtain expansion permits at our sites. some of our landfills accept non-hazardous special waste, including utility ash, asbestos and contaminated soils. see item 2., properties. 6 table of contents most of our existing landfill sites have the potential for expanded disposal capacity beyond the currently permitted acreage. we monitor the availability of permitted disposal capacity at each of our landfills and evaluate whether to pursue expansion at a given landfill based on estimated future waste volumes and prices, market needs, remaining capacity and likelihood of obtaining an expansion. to satisfy future disposal demand, we are currently seeking to expand permitted capacity at certain of our landfills. however, no assurances can be made that all proposed or future expansions will be permitted as designed. recycling facilities and other services. we have 33 materials recovery facilities and other recycling operations. these facilities sort recyclable paper, aluminum, glass and other materials. most of these recyclable materials are internally collected by our residential collection operations. in some areas, we receive commercial and industrial solid waste that is sorted at our facilities into recyclable materials and non-recyclable waste. the recyclable materials are salvaged, repackaged and sold to third parties and the non-recyclable waste is disposed of at landfills or incinerators. we provided remediation and other heavy construction services primarily through our subsidiary located in missouri. we sold this subsidiary during the fourth quarter of 2005 because it did not complement our core business strategy. our texas-based compost, mulch and soil business at which yard, mill and other waste was processed, packaged and sold as various products was sold during the fourth quarter of 2007 because it did not complement our core business strategy. sales and marketing we seek to provide quality services that will enable our company to maintain high levels of customer satisfaction. we derive our business from a broad customer base, which we believe will enable our company to experience stable growth. we focus our marketing efforts on continuing and expanding business with existing customers, as well as attracting new customers. we employ approximately 500 sales and marketing employees. our sales and marketing strategy is to provide high-quality, comprehensive solid waste collection, recycling, transfer and disposal services to our customers at competitive prices. we target potential customers of all sizes, from small quantity generators to large fortune 500 companies and municipalities. most of our marketing activity is local in nature. however, we also provide a corporate accounts program in response to the needs of some of our customers. we generally do not change the tradenames of the local businesses we acquire, and therefore we do not operate nationally under any one mark or tradename. rather, we often rely on the goodwill associated with the acquired companies local tradenames as used in each geographic market in which we operate. customers we provide services to commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers. no one customer has individually accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenue or of our reportable segment revenue in any of the last three years. competition we operate in a highly competitive industry. entry into our business and the ability to operate profitably in the industry requires substantial amounts of capital and managerial experience. competition in the non-hazardous solid waste industry comes from a few large, national publicly owned companies, including waste management, inc. and allied waste industries, inc., several regional publicly and privately owned solid waste companies, and thousands of small privately owned companies. some of our competitors have significantly larger operations and may have significantly greater financial resources than we do. in addition to national and regional firms and numerous local companies, we compete with municipalities that 7 table of contents maintain waste collection or disposal operations. these municipalities may have financial advantages due to the availability of tax revenue and tax-exempt financing. we compete for collection accounts primarily on the basis of price and the quality of our services. from time to time, our competitors may reduce the price of their services in an effort to expand market share or to win a competitively bid municipal contract. our ability to increase prices in certain markets may be impacted by the pricing policies of our competitors. this may have an impact on our future revenue and profitability. in each market in which we own or operate a landfill, we compete for landfill business on the basis of disposal costs, geographic location and quality of operations. our ability to obtain landfill business may be limited by the fact that some major collection companies also own or operate landfills to which they send their waste. there also has been an increasing trend at the state and local levels to mandate waste reduction at the source and to prohibit the disposal of certain types of waste, such as yard waste, at landfills. this may result in the volume of waste going to landfills being reduced in certain areas, which may affect our ability to operate our landfills at their full capacity or affect the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal services. in addition, most of the states in which we operate landfills have adopted plans or requirements that set goals for specified percentages of certain solid waste items to be recycled. seasonality and severe weather our operations can be adversely affected by periods of inclement or severe weather which could increase the volume of waste collected under our existing contracts (without corresponding compensation), delay the collection and disposal of waste, reduce the volume of waste delivered to our disposal sites, or delay the construction or expansion of our landfill sites and other facilities. regulation our facilities and operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local requirements that regulate the environment, public health, safety, zoning and land use. operating and other permits, licenses and other approvals are generally required for landfills and transfer stations, certain solid waste collection vehicles, fuel storage tanks and other facilities that we own or operate, and these permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal in certain circumstances. federal, state and local laws and regulations vary, but generally govern wastewater or stormwater discharges, air emissions, the handling, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, and the remediation of contamination associated with the release or threatened release of hazardous substances. these laws and regulations provide governmental authorities with strict powers of enforcement, which include the ability to revoke or decline to renew any of our operating permits, obtain injunctions, or impose fines or penalties in the case of violations, including criminal penalties. the u.s. environmental protection agency and various other federal, state and local environmental, public and occupational health and safety agencies and authorities administer these regulations, including the occupational safety and health administration of the u.s. department of labor. we strive to conduct our operations in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. however, in the existing climate of heightened environmental concerns, from time to time, we have been issued citations or notices from governmental authorities that have resulted in the need to expend funds for remedial work and related activities at various landfills and other facilities. there is no assurance that citations and notices will not be issued in the future despite our regulatory compliance efforts. we have established final capping, closure, post-closure and remediation liabilities that we believe, based on currently available information, will be adequate to cover our current estimates of regulatory costs. however, we cannot assure you that actual costs will not exceed our reserves. federal regulation. the following summarizes the primary environmental, public and occupational health and safety-related statutes of the united states that affect our facilities and operations: (1) the solid waste disposal act, as amended, including the resource conservation and recovery act. rcra and its implementing regulations establish a framework for regulating the handling, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous solid waste, and require states to develop programs to ensure the safe disposal of solid waste in sanitary landfills. 8 table of contents subtitle d of rcra establishes a framework for regulating the disposal of municipal solid waste. regulations under subtitle d currently include minimum comprehensive solid waste management criteria and guidelines, including location restrictions, facility design and operating criteria, final capping, closure and post-closure requirements, financial assurance standards, groundwater monitoring requirements and corrective action standards, many of which had not commonly been in effect or enforced in the past in connection with municipal solid waste landfills. each state was required to submit to the u.s. epa a permit program designed to implement subtitle d regulations by april 9, 1993. all of the states in which we operate have implemented permit programs pursuant to rcra and subtitle d. these state permit programs may include landfill requirements which are more stringent than those of subtitle d. our failure to comply with the environmental requirements of federal, state and local authorities at any of our locations may lead to temporary or permanent loss of an operating permit. all of our planned landfill expansions and new landfill development projects have been engineered to meet or exceed subtitle d requirements. operating and design criteria for existing operations have been modified to comply with these regulations. compliance with subtitle d regulations has resulted in increased costs and may in the future require substantial additional expenditures in addition to other costs normally associated with our waste management activities. (2) the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act of 1980, as amended. cercla, among other things, provides for the cleanup of sites from which there is a release or threatened release of a hazardous substance into the environment. cercla may impose strict joint and several liability for the costs of cleanup and for damages to natural resources upon current owners and operators of a site, parties who were owners or operators of a site at the time the hazardous substances were disposed of, parties who transported the hazardous substances to a site and parties who arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances at a site. under the authority of cercla and its implementing regulations, detailed requirements apply to the manner and degree of investigation and remediation of facilities and sites where hazardous substances have been or are threatened to be released into the environment. liability under cercla is not dependent on the existence or disposal of only hazardous wastes but can also be based upon the existence of small quantities of more than 700 substances characterized by the u.s. epa as hazardous, many of which may be found in common household waste. among other things, cercla authorizes the federal government to investigate and remediate sites at which hazardous substances have been or are threatened to be released into the environment or to order (or offer an opportunity to) persons potentially liable for the cleanup of the hazardous substances to do so. in addition, the u.s. epa has established a national priorities list of sites at which hazardous substances have been or are threatened to be released and which require investigation or cleanup. liability under cercla is not dependent on the intentional disposal of hazardous waste. it can be founded upon the release or threatened release, even as a result of unintentional, non-negligent or lawful action, of thousands of hazardous substances, including very small quantities of such substances. thus, even if our landfills have never knowingly received hazardous waste as such, it is possible that one or more hazardous substances may have been deposited or released at our landfills or at other properties which we currently own or operate or may have owned or operated. therefore, we could be liable under cercla for the cost of cleaning up such hazardous substances at such sites and for damages to natural resources, even if those substances were deposited at our facilities before we acquired or operated them. the costs of a cercla cleanup can be very expensive. given the difficulty of obtaining insurance for environmental impairment liability, such liability could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. (3) the federal water pollution control act of 1972, as amended. this act regulates the discharge of pollutants from a variety of sources, including solid waste disposal sites, into streams, rivers and other waters of the united states. point source runoff from our landfills and transfer stations that is discharged into surface waters must be covered by discharge permits that generally require us to conduct sampling and monitoring, and, under certain circumstances, reduce the quantity of pollutants in those discharges. storm water discharge regulations under this act require a permit for certain construction activities and discharges from industrial 9 table of contents operations and facilities, which may affect our operations. if a landfill or transfer station discharges wastewater through a sewage system to a publicly owned treatment works, the facility must comply with discharge limits imposed by that treatment works. in addition, states may adopt groundwater protection programs under this act or the safe drinking water act that could affect solid waste landfills. furthermore, development which alters or affects wetlands must generally be permitted prior to such development commencing, and certain mitigation requirements may be required by the permitting agencies. (4) the clean air act, as amended. the clean air act imposes limitations on emissions from various sources, including landfills. in march 1996, the u.s. epa promulgated regulations that require large municipal solid waste landfills to install landfill gas monitoring systems. these regulations apply to landfills that commenced construction, reconstruction or modification on or after may 30, 1991, and, principally, to landfills that can accommodate 2.5 million cubic meters or more of municipal solid waste. the regulations apply whether the landfill is active or closed. the date by which each affected landfill is required to have a gas collection and control system installed and made operational varies depending on calculated emission rates at the landfill. many state regulatory agencies also currently require monitoring systems for the collection and control of certain landfill gas. (5) the occupational safety and health act of 1970, as amended. this act authorizes the occupational safety and health administration of the u.s. department of labor to promulgate occupational safety and health standards. a number of these standards, including standards for notices of hazardous chemicals and the handling of asbestos, apply to our facilities and operations. state regulation. each state in which we operate has its own laws and regulations governing solid waste disposal, water and air pollution, and, in most cases, releases and cleanup of hazardous substances and liabilities for such matters. states also have adopted regulations governing the design, operation, maintenance and closure of landfills and transfer stations. our facilities and operations are likely to be subject to these types of requirements. in addition, our solid waste collection and landfill operations may be affected by the trend in many states toward requiring the development of solid waste reduction and recycling programs. for example, several states have enacted laws that require counties or municipalities to adopt comprehensive plans to reduce, through solid waste planning, composting, recycling or other programs, the volume of solid waste deposited in landfills. additionally, laws and regulations restricting the disposal of certain waste in solid waste landfills, including yard waste, newspapers, beverage containers, unshredded tires, lead-acid batteries and household appliances, have been promulgated in several states and are being considered in others. legislative and regulatory measures to mandate or encourage waste reduction at the source and waste recycling also are or have been under consideration by the u.s. congress and the u.s. epa, respectively. in order to construct, expand and operate a landfill, one or more construction or operating permits, as well as zoning and land use approvals, must be obtained. these permits and approvals may be difficult and time-consuming to obtain and to operate in compliance with, are often opposed by neighboring landowners and citizens groups, may be subject to periodic renewal, and are subject to modification, non-renewal and revocation by the issuing agency. in connection with our acquisition of existing landfills, it may be and on occasion has been necessary for our company to expend considerable time, effort and money to bring the acquired facilities into compliance with applicable requirements and to obtain the permits and approvals necessary to increase their capacity. many of our facilities own and operate underground storage tanks which are generally used to store petroleum-based products. these tanks are generally subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that mandate their periodic testing, upgrading, closure and removal, and that, in the event of leaks, require that polluted groundwater and soils be remediated. we believe that all of our underground storage tanks currently meet all applicable regulations. if underground storage tanks we own or operate leak, and the leakage migrates onto the property of others, we could be liable for response costs and other damages to third parties. we are unaware of facts indicating that issues of compliance with regulations related to underground storage tanks will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. finally, with regard to our solid waste transportation operations, we are subject to the jurisdiction of the surface transportation board and are regulated by the federal highway administration, office of motor carriers, and by regulatory agencies in states that regulate such matters. various states have enacted or promulgated, or are considering 10 table of contents enacting or promulgating, laws and regulations that would restrict the interstate transportation and processing of solid waste. in 1978, the u.s. supreme court ruled that a law that restricts the importation of out-of-state solid waste was unconstitutional; however, states have attempted to distinguish proposed laws from those involved in and implicated by that ruling. in 1994, the supreme court ruled that a flow control law, which attempted to restrict solid waste from leaving its place of generation, imposed an impermissible burden upon interstate commerce, and, therefore, was unconstitutional; however, states have also attempted to distinguish proposed laws from those involved in and implicated by that ruling. in response to these supreme court rulings, the u.s. congress has considered passing legislation authorizing state and local governments to restrict the free movement of solid waste in interstate commerce. if federal legislation authorizing state and local governments to restrict the free movement of solid waste in interstate commerce is enacted, such legislation could adversely affect our operations. we have established liabilities for landfill and environmental costs, which include landfill site final capping, closure and post-closure costs. we periodically reassess such costs based on various methods and assumptions regarding landfill airspace and the technical requirements of subtitle d of rcra and adjust our rates used to expense final capping, closure and post-closure costs accordingly. based on current information and regulatory requirements, we believe that our liabilities recorded for such landfill and environmental expenditures are adequate. however, environmental laws may change, and there can be no assurance that our recorded liabilities will be adequate to cover requirements under existing or new environmental laws and regulations, future changes or interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or the identification of adverse environmental conditions previously unknown to us. liability insurance and bonding the nature of our business exposes our company to the risk of liabilities arising out of our operations, including possible damages to the environment. such potential liabilities could involve, for example, claims for remediation costs, personal injury, property damage and damage to the environment in cases where we may be held responsible for the escape of harmful materials; claims of employees, customers or third parties for personal injury or property damage occurring in the course of our operations; or claims alleging negligence in the planning or performance of work. we could also be subject to fines and civil and criminal penalties in connection with alleged violations of regulatory requirements. because of the nature and scope of the possible environmental damages, liabilities imposed in environmental litigation can be significant. our solid waste operations have third-party environmental liability insurance with limits in excess of those required by permit regulations, subject to certain limitations and exclusions. however, we cannot assure you that such environmental liability insurance would be adequate, in scope or amount, in the event of a major loss, nor can we assure you that we would continue to carry excess environmental liability insurance should market conditions in the insurance industry make such coverage costs prohibitive. we have general liability, vehicle liability, employment practices liability, pollution liability, directors and officers liability, workers compensation and employer liability coverage, as well as umbrella liability policies to provide excess coverage over the underlying limits contained in these primary policies. we also carry property insurance. although we try to operate safely and prudently and while we have, subject to limitations and exclusions, substantial liability insurance, no assurance can be given that we will not be exposed to uninsured liabilities which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our insurance programs for workers compensation, general liability, vehicle liability and employee-related health care benefits are effectively self-insured. claims in excess of self-insurance levels are fully insured subject to policy limits. accruals are based on claims filed and actuarial estimates of claims development and claims incurred but not reported. due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we have experienced, and may continue to experience in the future, increased self-insurance retention levels and increased premiums. as we assume more risk for self-insurance through higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in our self-insurance reserves and expense. in the normal course of business, we may be required to post performance bonds, insurance policies, letters of credit, or cash or marketable securities deposits in connection with municipal residential collection contracts, the operation, closure or post-closure of landfills, environmental remediation, environmental permits, and business licenses and permits as a financial guarantee of our performance. to date, we have satisfied financial responsibility 11 table of contents requirements by making cash or marketable securities deposits or by obtaining bank letters of credit, insurance policies or surety bonds. employees as of december 31, 2007, we employed approximately 13,000 full-time employees, approximately 3,300 of whom were covered by collective bargaining agreements. our management believes that we have good relations with our employees. compensation we believe that our compensation program effectively aligns our field and corporate management team with the company overall goal of generating increasing amounts of free cash flow while achieving targeted earnings and returns on invested capital. this is done by utilizing simple and measurable metrics on which incentive pay is based. at the field level, these metrics are based on free cash flow, earnings and return on invested capital for each manager geographic area of responsibility. great effort is taken to ensure that these goals agree with the overall goals of the company. incentive compensation at the corporate level is based on the obtainment of our company overall goals. in addition, certain field and corporate employees also participate in a long-term incentive program. we believe this program aligns our company short- and long-term goals and helps ensure that the long-term success of our company is not sacrificed for the obtainment of short-term goals. availability of reports and other information our corporate website is http://www.republicservices.com. we make available on this website, free of charge, access to our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy statements on schedule 14a and amendments to those materials filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities and exchange act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically submit such material to the securities and exchange commission. our corporate website also contains our corporate governance guidelines, code of ethics and charters of the nominating and corporate governance committee, audit committee and compensation committee of the board of directors. in addition, the commission website is http://www.sec.gov. the commission makes available on this website, free of charge, reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, such as us, that file electronically with the commission. information on our website or the commission website is not part of this document. item 1a. risk factors risk factors this annual report on form 10-k includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, including, in particular, certain statements about our plans, strategies and prospects. although we believe that our plans, intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by such forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that such plans, intentions or expectations will be achieved. important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements include those set forth in this risk factors section. all forward-looking statements attributable to us or any persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements set forth below. unless the context requires otherwise, all references to the company, we, us, or our include republic services, inc. and its subsidiaries. if any of the following risks, or other risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe to not be significant, develop into actual events, then our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. we operate in a highly competitive industry and may be unable to compete effectively. we operate in a highly competitive business environment. some of our competitors have significantly larger operations and may have significantly greater financial resources than we do. we also compete with municipalities 12 table of contents that maintain their own waste collection or disposal operations. these municipalities may have a financial advantage over us as a result of the availability of tax revenue and tax-exempt financing. in each market in which we own or operate a landfill, we compete for solid waste volume on the basis of disposal or tipping fees, geographic location and quality of operations. our ability to obtain solid waste volume for our landfills may be limited by the fact that some major collection companies also own or operate landfills to which they send their waste. in markets in which we do not own or operate a landfill, our collection operations may operate at a disadvantage to fully integrated competitors. as a result of these factors, we may have difficulty competing effectively from time to time. we may be unable to obtain future increases in the prices for our services. we compete for collection accounts primarily on the basis of price and the quality of services. in addition, we seek to secure price increases necessary to offset increased costs and to improve our operating margins. from time to time, our competitors may reduce the price of their services in an effort to expand their market share. general economic or market specific conditions may also limit our ability to raise prices. as a result of these factors, we may be unable to offset increases in costs and improve our operating margins through price increases. we may also lose volume to lower-cost competitors. economic conditions could adversely affect our business, operations and internal growth. previous economic slowdowns have negatively impacted the portion of our collection business servicing the manufacturing sector and the residential and non-residential construction industries. landfill volumes attributable to manufacturing and construction activity have also been impacted. a slowdown in the economy in any of the markets we service could adversely affect volumes, pricing and operating margins in our collection, transfer and disposal operations. an increase in the price of fuel may adversely affect our business. our operations are dependent on fuel, which we generally purchase in the open market on a daily basis. direct fuel costs include the cost of fuel and other petroleum-based products used to operate our fleet of vehicles and heavy equipment. we are also susceptible to increases in indirect fuel costs which include fuel surcharges from vendors, increases in construction and excavation costs, and increases in the costs of other petroleum-based products such as synthetic landfill liners. during 2007, 2006 and 2005, we experienced significant increases in the cost of fuel and other petroleum-based products. a portion of these increases was passed on to our customers. however, because of the competitive nature of the waste industry, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass on current or future increases in fuel prices to our customers. due to a number of factors, including political instability in some oil-producing countries, fuel prices may continue to fluctuate significantly in 2008. a significant increase in fuel costs could adversely affect our business, results of operations or cash flows. we may be unable to execute our financial strategy. our ability to execute our financial strategy is dependent on our ability to maintain an investment grade rating on our senior debt. the credit rating process is contingent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. our financial strategy is also dependent on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to reinvest in our existing business, fund our internal growth, acquire other solid waste businesses, repurchase shares of our common stock, pay dividends, minimize our borrowings and take other actions to enhance shareholder value. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in executing our broad-based pricing program, that we will generate sufficient cash flow to execute our financial strategy, that we will continue to repurchase our common stock, or that we will be able to pay cash dividends or increase the amount of our dividends. 13 table of contents we may be unable to manage our growth effectively. our growth strategy places significant demands on our financial, operational and management resources. in order to continue our growth, we will need to add administrative and other personnel, and make additional investments in operations and systems. we cannot assure you that we will be able to find and train qualified personnel, or do so on a timely basis, or expand our operations and systems to the extent, and in the time, required. we may be unable to execute our acquisition growth strategy. our ability to execute our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to identify and acquire desirable acquisition candidates as well as our ability to successfully consolidate acquired operations into our business. the consolidation of our operations with the operations of acquired companies, including the consolidation of systems, procedures, personnel and facilities, the relocation of staff, and the achievement of anticipated cost savings, economies of scale and other business efficiencies, presents significant challenges to our management, particularly if several acquisitions occur at the same time. we cannot assure you that: desirable acquisition candidates exist or will be identified, we will be able to acquire any of the candidates identified, we will effectively consolidate companies which we acquire and fully or timely realize expected cost savings, economies of scale or business efficiencies, or any acquisitions will be profitable or accretive to our earnings. additional factors may negatively impact our acquisition growth strategy. our acquisition strategy may require spending significant amounts of capital. if we are unable to obtain additional needed financing on acceptable terms, we may need to reduce the scope of our acquisition growth strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects. the intense competition among our competitors pursuing the same acquisition candidates may increase purchase prices for solid waste businesses and increase our capital requirements or prevent us from acquiring certain acquisition candidates. if any of the aforementioned factors force us to alter our growth strategy, our growth prospects could be adversely affected. businesses we acquire may have undisclosed liabilities. in pursuing our acquisition strategy, our investigations of the acquisition candidates may fail to discover certain undisclosed liabilities of the acquisition candidates. if we acquire a company having undisclosed liabilities, as a successor owner we may be responsible for such undisclosed liabilities. we typically try to minimize our exposure to such liabilities by obtaining indemnification from each seller of the acquired companies, by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase price as security for the indemnification and by acquiring only specified assets. however, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain indemnifications or that they will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any undisclosed liabilities arising from our acquisitions. compliance with environmental and other laws and regulations may impede our growth and impact our financial results. we may need to spend considerable time, effort and capital to keep our facilities in compliance with federal, state and local requirements regulating health, safety, environment, zoning, land use and transportation. in addition, some of our waste operations that cross state boundaries could be adversely affected if the federal government, or the state or locality in which these waste operations are located, imposes fees on, or otherwise limits or prohibits, the transportation or disposal of solid waste. if environmental laws become more stringent, our environmental capital expenditures and costs for environmental compliance may increase in the future. in addition, due to the possibility of unanticipated events or regulatory developments, the amounts and timing of future environmental expenditures could vary substantially from those we currently anticipate. because of the nature of our operations, we have in the past, currently are, and may in the future be named as a potentially responsible party in connection with the investigation or remediation of environmental conditions. we cannot assure you that the resolution of any such 14 table of contents investigations will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. a significant judgment or fine against our company, or the loss of a significant permit or license due to modification, non-renewal or revocation by the issuing agency, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or growth prospects. see item 3., legal proceedings, for further information. regulatory approval to operate, develop or expand our landfills and transfer stations may be delayed or denied. our plans include developing new landfills and transfer stations, as well as expanding the disposal and transfer capacities of certain of our landfills and transfer stations, respectively. various parties, including citizens groups and local politicians, sometimes challenge our operations and these projects. responding to these challenges has, at times, increased our costs and extended the time associated with establishing new facilities and operating and expanding existing facilities. in addition, failure to receive regulatory and zoning approval may prohibit us from establishing new facilities and operating and expanding existing facilities. our financial statements are based on estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles and necessarily include amounts based on estimates and assumptions made by us. actual results could differ from these amounts. significant items subject to such estimates and assumptions include the carrying value of long-lived assets, the depletion and amortization of landfill development costs, accruals for final capping, closure and post-closure costs, valuation allowances for accounts receivable and deferred tax assets, liabilities for potential litigation, claims and assessments, and liabilities for environmental remediation, deferred taxes, uncertain tax positions and self-insurance. we cannot assure you that our liabilities recorded for landfill and environmental costs will be adequate to cover the requirements of existing environmental regulations, future changes to or interpretations of existing regulations, or the identification of adverse environmental conditions previously unknown to us. changes in insurance markets may impact our financial results. due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we have experienced, and may continue to experience in the future, increased self-insurance retention levels and increased premiums. as we assume more risk for self-insurance through higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in our self-insurance reserves and expense. we depend on key personnel. our future success depends on the continued contributions of several key employees and officers. we do not maintain key man life insurance policies on any of our officers. the loss of the services of key employees and officers, whether such loss is through resignation or other causes, or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. seasonal changes or severe weather may adversely affect our business and operations. our operations may be adversely affected by periods of inclement or severe weather which could increase the volume of waste collected under our existing contracts (without corresponding compensation), delay the collection and disposal of waste, reduce the volume of waste delivered to our disposal sites, or delay the construction or expansion of our landfill sites and other facilities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see the information in the quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk subsection of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation set forth in item 7 hereof. 51risk factors 15 risk factors . 3 table of contents operating strategy we seek to leverage existing assets and revenue growth to increase operating margins and enhance shareholder value. our operating strategy for accomplishing this goal includes the following: utilize the extensive industry knowledge and experience of our executive management team, utilize a decentralized management structure in overseeing day-to-day operations, integrate waste operations, improve operating margins through economies of scale, cost efficiencies and asset utilization, achieve high levels of customer satisfaction, and utilize business information systems to improve consistency in financial and operational performance. experienced executive management team. we believe that we have one of the most experienced executive management teams in the solid waste industry. james e. o connor, who has served as our chief executive officer (ceo) since december 1998, also became our chairman in january 2003. he worked at waste management, inc. from 1972 to 1978 and from 1982 to 1998. during that time, he served in various management positions, including senior vice president in 1997 and 1998, and area president of waste management of florida, inc. from 1992 to 1997. mr. o connor has 34 years of experience in the solid waste industry. donald w. slager became our president chief operating officer (coo) upon our merging with allied in december 2008. prior to the merger, mr. slager worked for allied from 1992 through 2008 and served in various management positions, including president coo from 2004 through 2008 and executive vice president and coo from 2003 to 2004. from 2001 to 2003, mr. slager served as senior vice president, operations. he held various management positions at allied from 1992 to 2003, and was previously general manager at national waste services, where he served in various management positions since 1985. mr. slager has over 23 years of experience in the solid waste industry. tod c. holmes has served as our chief financial officer (cfo) since august 1998. mr. holmes served as our vice president of finance from june 1998 until august 1998 and as vice president of finance of our former parent company solid waste group from january 1998 until june 1998. from 1987 to 1998, mr. holmes served in various management positions with browning-ferris industries, inc., including vice president, investor relations from 1996 to 1998, divisional vice president, collection operations from 1995 to 1996, divisional vice president and regional controller northern region from 1993 to 1995, and divisional vice president and assistant corporate controller from 1991 to 1993. mr. holmes has over 21 years of experience in the solid waste industry. our regional senior vice presidents have an average of 21 years of experience in the industry. merger integration strategy. as previously mentioned, on december 5, 2008 we completed our merger with allied. we believe this merger is different than historical attempts to consolidate the waste industry for a number of reasons including the following: two mature companies. most previous attempts to consolidate the waste industry focused on a roll up strategy often involving relatively young companies solely focused on increasing revenue through acquisitions. our merger with allied involved two mature companies with similar business practices and performance metrics that have been developed and refined over the course of a number of years. we believe that the combination of our maturity and proven business practices and performance metrics will be a critical component of our future success. best practices. our merger also affords us the opportunity to select the best tools and systems and to adopt the best practices of two successful companies. republic has a history of financial discipline evident in the consistent generation of increasing levels of free cash flow. allied is noted for its 4 table of contents integrated operations and focus on procurement. we believe that our merger gives us a unique opportunity to combine the strengths of these two successful organizations and create a best-in-class waste management company. timely and focused integration process. we are acutely aware that previous acquisitions in the waste management and other industries failed because of a lack of focus on integration. as such, we began to develop our integration process and strategy in june 2008, long before our merger was consummated. our process identified specific integration related tasks focused on all levels of the organization, especially our individual business units. we have engaged employees at all levels of the company in this process to develop a detailed integration plan and ensure that each of our employees understands their role in the process. strong operating platform. the combination of republic and allied creates a company with a strong, national operating platform. the foundation of this platform is our large network of disposal sites. this disposal network provides us with a far stronger vertically integrated operating structure than either company would be able to achieve on its own. we believe that our improved vertically integrated operations will be a key driver of our future profitability. complementary operations. the overlay of our operating locations reflects another compelling attribute of our merger. we operate complementary geographies. we also share very similar cultures that are centered on a shared commitment to providing industry-leading solid waste and environmental services that exceed our customers highest expectations. significant synergies. we have identified approximately $150.0 million of annual run-rate synergies associated with the merger. these synergies focus on right sizing our combined corporate and field staff. they also take advantage of our complementary operations which allows us to eliminate duplicative facilities and collection routes. all of our employees are focused on the achievement of our operating strategies. in addition, certain employees whose role is considered critical will be incentivized based upon the timely achievement of our synergy goal. we believe that such incentives help to further focus our management team on increasing shareholder value. strong capital structure. unlike many other mergers or acquisitions in the waste management and other industries, republic services enjoys a strong capital structure and investment grade credit ratings post-merger. our combination with allied creates a company that will produce substantial annual free cash flow. this strong cash producing characteristic will allow us to pursue our mission of increasing shareholder value by focusing on investing in our business, paying down our debt and funding dividends. decentralized management structure. we maintain a relatively small corporate headquarters staff, relying on a decentralized management structure to minimize administrative overhead costs and to manage our day-to-day operations more efficiently. our local management has extensive industry experience in growing, operating and managing solid waste companies and has substantial experience in their local geographic markets. each regional management team includes a senior vice president of operations, vice president-controller, vice president of human resources, vice president of sales, vice president of operations support, director of safety, director of engineering and environmental management, and director of market planning and development. we believe that our strong regional management teams allow us to more effectively and efficiently drive our initiatives and help ensure consistency throughout our organization. our regional management teams and our area presidents have extensive authority, responsibility and autonomy for operations within their respective geographic markets. compensation for our area management teams is primarily based on the improvement in operating income produced and the free cash flow and return on invested capital generated in each manager geographic area of responsibility. in addition, through long-term incentive programs, including stock options, we believe we have one of the lowest turnover levels in the industry for our local management teams. as a result of retaining experienced managers with extensive knowledge of and involvement in their local communities, we are proactive in anticipating our customers needs and adjusting to changes in our markets. we also seek to implement the best practices of our various regions and areas throughout our operations to improve operating margins. 5 table of contents integrated operations. we seek to achieve a high rate of internalization by controlling waste streams from the point of collection through disposal. we expect that our fully integrated markets generally will have a lower cost of operations and more favorable cash flows than our non-integrated markets. through acquisitions, landfill operating agreements and other market development activities, we create market-specific, integrated operations typically consisting of one or more collection companies, transfer stations and landfills. we consider acquiring companies that own or operate landfills with significant permitted disposal capacity and appropriate levels of waste volume. we also seek to acquire solid waste collection companies in markets in which we own or operate landfills. in addition, we generate internal growth in our disposal operations by developing new landfills and expanding our existing landfills from time to time in markets in which we have significant collection operations or in markets that we determine lack sufficient disposal capacity. during december 2008, subsequent to our acquisition of allied, approximately 67% of the total volume of waste that we collected was disposed of at landfills we own or operate. in a number of our larger markets, we and our competitors are required to take waste to government-controlled disposal facilities. this provides us with an opportunity to effectively compete in these markets without investing in landfill capacity. because we do not have landfill facilities or government-controlled disposal facilities for all markets in which we provide collection services, we believe that through landfill and transfer station acquisitions, operating agreements, and market development, we have the opportunity to increase our waste internalization rate and further integrate our operations. by further integrating operations in existing markets through acquisitions, operating agreements and development of landfills and transfer stations, we may be able to reduce our disposal costs. economies of scale, cost efficiencies and asset utilization. we continue to identify and implement best practices throughout our organization with the goal of permanently improving overall operating and financial results. these best practice initiatives focus on critical areas of our operations such as landfill operations, truck routing, maintenance and related service efficiencies, purchasing and administrative activities. the consolidation of acquired businesses into existing operations reduces costs by decreasing capital and expenses used for truck routing, personnel, equipment and vehicle maintenance, inventories and back-office administration. generally, we consolidate our acquired administrative centers to reduce our general and administrative costs. of particular benefit are the opportunities associated with the blending of operations as a result of the allied merger. scheduled for completion by early 2010, these markets offer the potential for marked improvement in operating results. generally speaking, there are significant opportunities in these markets to leverage economies of scale and the existing asset base, while realizing improved operating efficiencies. upon the completion of the integration of allied, our goal is to maintain our selling, general and administrative costs at no more than 10.0% of revenue, which we believe is appropriate given our existing business platform. in addition, our procurement initiatives ensure that we negotiate the best volume discounts for goods and services purchased, including waste disposal rates at landfills operated by third parties. furthermore, we have taken steps to maximize the utilization of our assets. for example, to reduce the number of collection vehicles and maximize the efficiency of our fleet and drivers, we use a route optimization program to minimize drive times and improve operating density. by using assets more efficiently, operating expenses can be reduced. high levels of customer satisfaction. we strive to provide the highest level of service to our customer base. our policy is to periodically visit each commercial account to ensure customer satisfaction and to verify that we are providing the appropriate level of service. in addition to visiting existing customers, a salesperson develops a base of prospective customers within each market. we also have municipal marketing representatives in most service areas that are responsible for working with each municipality or community to which we provide residential service to ensure customer satisfaction. additionally, the municipal representatives organize and drive the effort to obtain new or renew municipal contracts in their service areas. focus on systems utilization. we continue to invest in the integration and expansion of our information systems and technology platform. our future platform will consist of best-in-class 6 table of contents legacy systems from both republic and allied. our initiatives will include customer relationship management, billing, productivity, maintenance, general ledger and human resource systems. we believe that the combination of these systems will prove to be a competitive advantage for our company. for certain risks related to our operating strategy, see item 1a. risk factors. growth strategy our growth strategy focuses on increasing revenue, gaining market share and enhancing shareholder value through internal growth and acquisitions. we manage our growth strategy as follows: internal growth. our internal growth strategy focuses on retaining existing customers and obtaining commercial, municipal and industrial customers through our well-managed sales and marketing activities. pricing activities. we seek to secure price increases necessary to offset increased costs, to improve our operating margins and to obtain adequate returns on our substantial investments in assets such as our landfills. during 2008, we continued to secure broad-based price increases across all lines of our business to offset various escalating capital and operating costs. price increases will remain a major component of our overall future operating strategy. long-term contracts. we seek to obtain long-term contracts for collecting solid waste in markets with growing populations. these include exclusive franchise agreements with municipalities as well as commercial and industrial contracts. by obtaining such long-term agreements, we have the opportunity to grow our contracted revenue base at the same rate as the underlying population growth in these markets. we believe it is important to have secured exclusive, long-term franchise agreements in market areas in some of the fastest growing states according to the u.s. census bureau, for example, arizona, texas and california. we believe that this positions us to experience internal growth rates that are generally higher than our industry overall growth rate. in addition, we believe that by securing a base of long-term recurring revenue in growing population markets, we are better able to protect our market position from competition and our business may be less susceptible to downturns in economic conditions. sales and marketing activities. we seek to manage our sales and marketing activities to enable us to capitalize on our leading position in many of the markets in which we operate. we provide a national accounts program in response to the needs of our national clients, centralizing services to effectively manage their needs, such as minimizing their procurement costs. we currently have approximately 1,200 sales and marketing employees in the field who are compensated using a commission structure that is focused on generating high levels of quality revenue. for the most part, these employees directly solicit business from existing and prospective commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers. we emphasize our rate and cost structures when we train new and existing sales personnel. in addition, we utilize a customer relationship management system that assists our sales people in tracking leads. it also tracks renewal periods for potential commercial, industrial and franchise contracts. development activities. we seek to identify opportunities to further our position as an integrated service provider in markets where we provide services for a portion of the waste stream. where appropriate, we seek to obtain permits to build transfer stations and landfills that would provide vertically integrated waste services or expand the service areas for our existing disposal sites. development projects, while generally less capital intensive, typically require extensive permitting efforts that can take years to complete with no assurance of success. we undertake development projects when we believe there is a reasonable probability of success and where reasonably priced acquisition opportunities are not available. acquisition growth. we look to acquire businesses that complement our existing business platform. our acquisition growth strategy focuses primarily on privately held solid waste companies and the waste operations of municipal and other local governmental authorities. we believe that our ability to 7 table of contents acquire privately held companies is enhanced by increasing competition in the solid waste industry, increasing capital requirements as a result of changes in solid waste regulatory requirements, and the limited number of exit strategies for these privately held companies owners and principals. we also seek to acquire operations and facilities from municipalities that are privatizing, as they seek to increase available capital and reduce risk. in addition, we will continue to evaluate opportunities to acquire operations and facilities that are being divested by other publicly owned waste companies. in sum, our acquisition growth strategy focuses primarily on the following: acquiring privately held businesses that position us for growth in existing and new markets, acquiring well-managed companies and, when appropriate, retaining local management, and acquiring operations and facilities from municipalities that are privatizing and publicly owned companies that are divesting of assets. we also seek to acquire landfills, transfer stations and collection companies that operate in markets that we are already servicing in order to fully integrate our operations from collection to disposal. in addition, we have in the past and may continue in the future to exchange businesses with other solid waste companies if by doing so there is a net benefit to our business platform. these activities allow us to increase our revenue and market share, lower our cost of operations as a percentage of revenue, and consolidate duplicative facilities and functions to maximize cost efficiencies and economies of scale. on december 5, 2008, we completed our merger with allied. we expect to achieve total annual run-rate integration synergies, primarily relating to operating efficiencies, inherent economies of scale, and leveraging corporate and overhead resources of approximately $150.0 million by the end of 2010. we have identified and are on track to realize in 2009 approximately $100.0 million, or 67%, of the total expected annual run-rate synergies. for certain risks related to our growth strategy, see item 1a. risk factors. operations our operations primarily consist of the collection, transfer and disposal of non-hazardous solid waste. collection services. we provide solid waste collection services to commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers through 400 collection companies. in 2008, 77.7% of our revenue was derived from collection services. within the collection line of business, 33.7% of our revenue is from services provided to municipal and residential customers, 40.6% is from services provided to commercial customers, and 25.7% is from services provided to industrial and other customers. our residential collection operations involve the curbside collection of refuse from small containers into collection vehicles for transport to transfer stations or directly to landfills. residential solid waste collection services are typically performed under contracts with municipalities, which we generally secure by competitive bid and which give us exclusive rights to service all or a portion of the homes in their respective jurisdictions. these contracts or franchises usually range in duration from one to five years, although some of our exclusive franchises are for significantly longer periods. residential solid waste collection services may also be performed on a subscription basis, in which individual households contract directly with us. the fees received for subscription residential collection are based primarily on market factors, frequency and type of service, the distance to the disposal facility and cost of disposal. in general, subscription residential collection fees are paid quarterly in advance by the residential customers receiving the service. in our commercial and industrial collection operations, we supply our customers with waste containers of varying sizes. we also rent compactors to large waste generators. commercial collection services are generally performed under one- to three-year service agreements, and fees are determined by considerations such as market factors, collection frequency, type of equipment furnished, the type and volume or weight of the waste collected, the distance to the disposal facility, and the cost of disposal. 8 table of contents we also provide waste collection services to industrial and construction facilities on a contractual basis with terms ranging from a single pickup to one year or longer. our construction services are provided to the commercial construction and home building sectors. we collect the containers or compacted waste and transport the waste either to a landfill or a transfer station for disposal. we also provide recycling services in certain markets in compliance with local laws or the terms of our franchise agreements. these services include the curbside collection of residential recyclable waste and the provision of a variety of recycling services to commercial and industrial customers. transfer and disposal services. we own or operate 242 transfer stations. we deposit waste at these transfer stations, as do other private haulers and municipal haulers, for compaction and transfer to trailers for transport to disposal sites or recycling facilities. as of december 31, 2008, we owned or operated 213 active landfills, which had approximately 36,900 permitted acres and total available permitted and probable expansion disposal capacity of approximately 4.9 billion in-place cubic yards. the in-place capacity of our landfills is subject to change based on engineering factors, requirements of regulatory authorities, our ability to continue to operate our landfills in compliance with applicable regulations, and our ability to successfully renew operating permits and obtain expansion permits at our sites. some of our landfills accept non-hazardous special waste, including utility ash, asbestos and contaminated soils. most of our active landfill sites have the potential for expanded disposal capacity beyond the currently permitted acreage. we monitor the availability of permitted disposal capacity at each of our landfills and evaluate whether to pursue an expansion at a given landfill based on estimated future waste volumes and prices, market needs, remaining capacity and likelihood of obtaining an expansion. to satisfy future disposal demand, we are currently seeking to expand permitted capacity at certain of our landfills. however, no assurances can be made that all proposed or future expansions will be permitted as designed. we also have responsibility for 126 closed landfills, for which we have associated closure and post-closure liabilities. recycling facilities and other services. we own or operate 78 materials recovery facilities and other recycling operations. these facilities sort recyclable paper, aluminum, glass and other materials. most of these recyclable materials are internally collected by our residential collection operations. in some areas, we receive commercial and industrial solid waste that is sorted at our facilities into recyclable materials and non-recyclable waste. the recyclable materials are salvaged, repackaged and sold to third parties, and the non-recyclable waste is disposed of at landfills or incinerators. sales and marketing we seek to provide quality services that will enable us to maintain high levels of customer satisfaction. we derive our business from a broad customer base, which we believe will enable us to experience stable growth. we focus our marketing efforts on continuing and expanding business with existing customers, as well as attracting new customers. we employ approximately 1,200 sales and marketing employees. our sales and marketing strategy is to provide high-quality, comprehensive solid waste collection, recycling, transfer and disposal services to our customers at competitive prices. we target potential customers of all sizes, from small quantity generators to large fortune 500 companies and municipalities. most of our marketing activity is local in nature. however, we also provide a national accounts program in response to the needs of some of our national and regional customers. our national accounts program is designed to provide the best total solution to our customers evolving waste management needs in an environmentally responsible manner. we partner with our national clients to reach their sustainability goals, optimize waste streams, balance equipment and service intervals and provide customized reporting. the national accounts program centralizes services to effectively manage customer needs, while helping minimize procurement costs. with our extended geographic reach, our national program 9 table of contents effectively serves 40 states and puerto rico. as industry leaders, our mission is to utilize our strengths and expertise to exceed customer expectations by consistently delivering the best national program available. we generally do not change the tradenames of the local businesses we acquire, and therefore we do not operate nationally under any one mark or tradename. customers we provide services to commercial, industrial, municipal and residential customers. no one customer has individually accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenue or of our reportable segment revenue in any of the last three years. competition we operate in a highly competitive industry. entry into our business and the ability to operate profitably in the industry requires substantial amounts of capital and managerial experience. competition in the non-hazardous solid waste industry comes from a few large, national publicly owned companies, including waste management, inc. (waste), several regional publicly and privately owned solid waste companies, and thousands of small privately owned companies. in any given market, competitors may have larger operations and greater resources. in addition to national and regional firms and numerous local companies, we compete with municipalities that maintain waste collection or disposal operations. these municipalities may have financial advantages due to the availability of tax revenue and tax-exempt financing. we compete for collection accounts primarily on the basis of price and the quality of our services. from time to time, our competitors may reduce the price of their services in an effort to expand market share or to win a competitively bid municipal contract. our ability to increase prices in certain markets may be impacted by the pricing policies of our competitors. this may have an impact on our future revenue and profitability. seasonality and severe weather our operations can be adversely affected by periods of inclement or severe weather which could increase the volume of waste collected under our existing contracts (without corresponding compensation), delay the collection and disposal of waste, reduce the volume of waste delivered to our disposal sites, or delay the construction or expansion of our landfill sites and other facilities. regulation our facilities and operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local requirements that regulate the environment, public health, safety, zoning and land use. operating and other permits, licenses and other approvals are generally required for landfills and transfer stations, certain solid waste collection vehicles, fuel storage tanks and other facilities that we own or operate, and these permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal in certain circumstances. federal, state and local laws and regulations vary, but generally govern wastewater or stormwater discharges, air emissions, the handling, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, and the remediation of contamination associated with the release or threatened release of hazardous substances. these laws and regulations provide governmental authorities with strict powers of enforcement, which include the ability to revoke or decline to renew any of our operating permits, obtain injunctions, or impose fines or penalties in the case of violations, including criminal penalties. the u.s. environmental protection agency (epa) and various other federal, state and local environmental, public and occupational health and safety agencies and authorities administer these regulations. we strive to conduct our operations in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. however, in the existing climate of heightened environmental concerns, from time to time, we have been issued citations or notices from governmental authorities that have resulted in the need to expend funds for remedial work 10 table of contents and related activities at various landfills and other facilities. there is no assurance that citations and notices will not be issued in the future despite our regulatory compliance efforts. we have established final capping, closure, post-closure and remediation liabilities that we believe, based on currently available information, will be adequate to cover our current estimates of regulatory costs. however, we cannot assure you that actual costs will not exceed our reserves. federal regulation. the following summarizes the primary environmental, public and occupational health and safety-related statutes of the united states that affect our facilities and operations: (1) the solid waste disposal act, as amended, including the resource conservation and recovery act (rcra). rcra establishes a framework for regulating the handling, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous solid waste, and requires states to develop programs to ensure the safe disposal of solid waste in sanitary landfills. subtitle d of rcra establishes a framework for regulating the disposal of municipal solid waste. regulations under subtitle d currently include minimum comprehensive solid waste management criteria and guidelines, including location restrictions, facility design and operating criteria, final capping, closure and post-closure requirements, financial assurance standards, groundwater monitoring requirements and corrective action standards, many of which had not commonly been in effect or enforced in the past in connection with municipal solid waste landfills. each state was required to submit to the epa a permit program designed to implement subtitle d regulations by april 9, 1993. all of the states in which we operate have implemented permit programs pursuant to rcra and subtitle d. these state permit programs may include landfill requirements which are more stringent than those of subtitle d. our failure to comply with the environmental requirements of federal, state and local authorities at any of our locations may lead to temporary or permanent loss of an operating permit. all of our planned landfill expansions and new landfill development projects have been engineered to meet or exceed subtitle d requirements. operating and design criteria for existing operations have been modified to comply with these regulations. compliance with subtitle d regulations has resulted in increased costs and may in the future require substantial additional expenditures in addition to other costs normally associated with our waste management activities. (2) the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act of 1980, as amended (cercla). cercla, among other things, provides for the cleanup of sites from which there is a release or threatened release of a hazardous substance into the environment. cercla may impose strict joint and several liability for the costs of cleanup and for damages to natural resources upon current owners and operators of a site, parties who were owners or operators of a site at the time the hazardous substances were disposed of, parties who transported the hazardous substances to a site and parties who arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances at a site. under the authority of cercla and its implementing regulations, detailed requirements apply to the manner and degree of investigation and remediation of facilities and sites where hazardous substances have been or are threatened to be released into the environment. liability under cercla is not dependent on the existence or disposal of only hazardous wastes but can also be based upon the existence of small quantities of more than 700 substances characterized by the epa as hazardous, many of which may be found in common household waste. among other things, cercla authorizes the federal government to investigate and remediate sites at which hazardous substances have been or are threatened to be released into the environment or to order (or offer an opportunity to) persons potentially liable for the cleanup of the hazardous substances to do so. in addition, the epa has established a national priorities list of sites at which hazardous substances have been or are threatened to be released and which require investigation or cleanup. liability under cercla is not dependent on the intentional disposal of hazardous waste. it can be founded upon the release or threatened release, even as a result of unintentional, non-negligent or lawful action, of thousands of hazardous substances, including very small quantities of such 11 table of contents substances. thus, even if we have never knowingly transported or received hazardous waste as such, it is possible that one or more hazardous substances may have been deposited or released at landfills or other properties owned by third parties where we have transported to and disposed of waste or at our landfills or at other properties which we currently own or operate or may have owned or operated. therefore, we could be liable under cercla for the cost of cleaning up such hazardous substances at such sites and for damages to natural resources, even if those substances were deposited at our facilities before we acquired or operated them. the costs of a cercla cleanup can be very expensive. given the difficulty of obtaining insurance for environmental impairment liability, such liability could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. (3) the federal water pollution control act of 1972, as amended (the clean water act). this act regulates the discharge of pollutants from a variety of sources, including solid waste disposal sites, into streams, rivers and other waters of the united states. point source runoff from our landfills and transfer stations that is discharged into surface waters must be covered by discharge permits that generally require us to conduct sampling and monitoring, and, under certain circumstances, reduce the quantity of pollutants in those discharges. storm water discharge regulations under the clean water act require a permit for certain construction activities and discharges from industrial operations and facilities, which may affect our operations. if a landfill or transfer station discharges wastewater through a sewage system to a publicly owned treatment works, the facility must comply with discharge limits imposed by that treatment works. in addition, states may adopt groundwater protection programs under the clean water act or the safe drinking water act that could affect solid waste landfills. furthermore, development which alters or affects wetlands must generally be permitted prior to such development commencing, and certain mitigation requirements may be required by the permitting agencies. (4) the clean air act, as amended (the clean air act). the clean air act imposes limitations on emissions from various sources, including landfills. in march 1996, the epa promulgated regulations that require large municipal solid waste landfills to install landfill gas monitoring systems. these regulations apply to landfills that commenced construction, reconstruction or modification on or after may 30, 1991, and, principally, to landfills that can accommodate 2.5 million cubic meters or more of municipal solid waste. the regulations apply whether the landfill is active or closed. the date by which each affected landfill is required to have a gas collection and control system installed and made operational varies depending on calculated emission rates at the landfill. many state regulatory agencies also currently require monitoring systems for the collection and control of certain landfill gas. (5) the occupational safety and health act of 1970, as amended (osha). osha authorizes the occupational safety and health administration of the u.s. department of labor to promulgate occupational safety and health standards. a number of these standards, including standards for notices of hazardous chemicals and the handling of asbestos, apply to our facilities and operations. state and local regulation. each state in which we operate has its own laws and regulations governing solid waste disposal, water and air pollution, and, in most cases, releases and cleanup of hazardous substances and liabilities for such matters. states also have adopted regulations governing the design, operation, maintenance and closure of landfills and transfer stations. some counties, municipalities and other local governments have adopted similar laws and regulations. our facilities and operations are likely to be subject to these types of requirements. in addition, our solid waste collection and landfill operations may be affected by the trend in many states toward requiring the development of solid waste reduction and recycling programs. for example, several states have enacted laws that require counties or municipalities to adopt comprehensive plans to reduce, through solid waste planning, composting, recycling or other programs, the volume of solid waste deposited in landfills. additionally, laws and regulations restricting the disposal of certain waste in solid waste landfills, including yard waste, newspapers, beverage containers, unshredded tires, lead-acid batteries and household appliances, have been promulgated in several states and are being considered in others. legislative and regulatory measures to mandate or encourage waste reduction at the source and waste recycling also are or have been under consideration by the u.s. congress and the epa, respectively. 12 table of contents in order to construct, expand and operate a landfill, one or more construction or operating permits, as well as zoning and land use approvals, must be obtained. these permits and approvals may be difficult and time-consuming to obtain and to operate in compliance with, are often opposed by neighboring landowners and citizens groups, may be subject to periodic renewal, and are subject to modification, non-renewal and revocation by the issuing agency. in connection with our acquisition of existing landfills, it may be and on occasion has been necessary for us to expend considerable time, effort and money to bring the acquired facilities into compliance with applicable requirements and to obtain the permits and approvals necessary to increase their capacity. many of our facilities own and operate underground storage tanks which are generally used to store petroleum-based products. these tanks are generally subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that mandate their periodic testing, upgrading, closure and removal, and that, in the event of leaks, require that polluted groundwater and soils be remediated. we believe that all of our underground storage tanks currently meet all applicable regulations. if underground storage tanks we own or operate leak, we could be liable for response costs and, if the leakage migrates onto the property of others, we could be liable for damages to third parties. we are unaware of facts indicating that issues of compliance with regulations related to underground storage tanks will have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. finally, with regard to our solid waste transportation operations, we are subject to the jurisdiction of the surface transportation board and are regulated by the federal highway administration, office of motor carriers, and by regulatory agencies in states that regulate such matters. various states and local government authorities have enacted or promulgated, or are considering enacting or promulgating, laws and regulations that would restrict the transportation of solid waste across state, county, or other jurisdiction lines. in 1978, the u.s. supreme court ruled that a law that restricts the importation of out-of-state solid waste was unconstitutional; however, states have attempted to distinguish proposed laws from those involved in and implicated by that ruling. in 1994, the supreme court ruled that a flow control law, which attempted to restrict solid waste from leaving its place of generation, imposed an impermissible burden upon interstate commerce, and, therefore, was unconstitutional. in 2007, the supreme court upheld the right of a local government to direct the flow of solid waste to a publicly owned waste facility. a number of county and other local jurisdictions have enacted ordinances or other regulations restricting the free movement of solid waste across jurisdictional boundaries. other governments may enact similar regulations in the future. these regulations may, in some cases, cause a decline in volumes of waste delivered to our landfills or transfer stations and may increase our costs of disposal, thereby adversely affecting our operations. we have established liabilities for landfill and environmental costs, which include landfill site final capping, closure and post-closure costs. we periodically reassess such costs based on various methods and assumptions regarding landfill airspace and the technical requirements of subtitle d of rcra and adjust our rates used to expense final capping, closure and post-closure costs accordingly. based on current information and regulatory requirements, we believe that our liabilities recorded for such landfill and environmental expenditures are adequate. however, environmental laws may change, and there can be no assurance that our recorded liabilities will be adequate to cover requirements under existing or new environmental laws and regulations, future changes or interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or the identification of adverse environmental conditions previously unknown to us. liability insurance and bonding the nature of our business exposes us to the risk of liabilities arising out of our operations, including possible damages to the environment. such potential liabilities could involve, for example, claims for remediation costs, personal injury, property damage and damage to the environment in cases where we may be held responsible for the escape of harmful materials; claims of employees, customers or third parties for personal injury or property damage occurring in the course of our operations; or claims alleging negligence or other wrongdoing in the planning or performance of work. we could also be subject to fines and civil and criminal penalties in connection with alleged violations of regulatory requirements. because 13 table of contents of the nature and scope of the possible environmental damages, liabilities imposed in environmental litigation can be significant. our solid waste operations have third party environmental liability insurance with limits in excess of those required by permit regulations, subject to certain limitations and exclusions. however, we cannot assure you that such environmental liability insurance would be adequate, in scope or amount, in the event of a major loss, nor can we assure you that we would continue to carry excess environmental liability insurance should market conditions in the insurance industry make such coverage costs prohibitive. we have general liability, vehicle liability, employment practices liability, pollution liability, directors and officers liability, workers compensation and employer liability coverage, as well as umbrella liability policies to provide excess coverage over the underlying limits contained in these primary policies. we also carry property insurance. although we try to operate safely and prudently and while we have, subject to limitations and exclusions, substantial liability insurance, no assurance can be given that we will not be exposed to uninsured liabilities which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our insurance programs for workers compensation, general liability, vehicle liability and employee-related health care benefits are effectively self-insured. claims in excess of self-insurance levels are fully insured subject to policy limits. accruals are based on claims filed and actuarial estimates of claims development and claims incurred but not reported. due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we have experienced, and may continue to experience in the future, increased self-insurance retention levels and increased premiums. as we assume more risk for self-insurance through higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in our self-insurance reserves and expense. in the normal course of business, we may be required to post performance bonds, insurance policies, letters of credit, or cash or marketable securities deposits in connection with municipal residential collection contracts, the operation, closure or post-closure of landfills, environmental remediation, environmental permits, and business licenses and permits as a financial guarantee of our performance. to date, we have satisfied financial responsibility requirements by making cash or marketable securities deposits or by obtaining bank letters of credit, insurance policies or surety bonds. employees as of december 31, 2008, we employed approximately 35,000 full-time employees, approximately 27% of whom were covered by collective bargaining agreements. from time to time, our operating locations may experience union organizing efforts. we have not historically experienced any significant work stoppages. we currently have no disputes or bargaining circumstances that we believe could cause significant disruptions in our business. our management believes that we have good relations with our employees. compensation we believe that our compensation program effectively aligns our field and corporate management team with our overall goal of generating increasing amounts of free cash flow while achieving targeted earnings and returns on invested capital. this is done by utilizing simple and measurable metrics on which incentive pay is based. at the field level, these metrics are based on free cash flow, earnings and return on invested capital for each manager geographic area of responsibility. great effort is taken to ensure that these goals agree with our overall goals. incentive compensation at the corporate level is based on the obtainment of our overall goals. furthermore, in conjunction with the merger with allied, we have developed integration metrics to be achieved by our executive management team and key employees based upon targeted annual run-rate synergies of approximately $150.0 million by the end of 2010. in addition, certain field and corporate employees also participate in a long-term incentive program. we believe this program aligns our short- and long-term goals and helps ensure that our long-term success is not sacrificed for the obtainment of short-term goals. 14 table of contents availability of reports and other information our corporate website is http://www.republicservices.com. we make available on this website, free of charge, access to our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, proxy statements on schedule 14a and amendments to those materials filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities and exchange act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically submit such material to the securities and exchange commission (sec). our corporate website also contains our corporate governance guidelines, code of ethics and charters of the nominating and corporate governance committee, audit committee, integration committee and compensation committee of the board of directors. in addition, the sec website is http://www.sec.gov. the sec makes available on this website, free of charge, reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, such as us, that file electronically with the sec. information on our website or the sec website is not part of this document. we intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements under item 5.05 of form 8-k and applicable new york stock exchange (nyse) rules regarding amendments to or waivers of our code of ethics by posting this information on our website at www.republicservices.com . in 2008, our ceo provided to the nyse the annual ceo certification regarding our compliance with the corporate governance listing standards of that exchange. in addition, our ceo and cfo filed with the sec all required certifications regarding the quality of our disclosures in our fiscal 2008 sec reports, including the certifications required to be filed with this annual report on form 10-k. there were no qualifications to these certifications. item 1a. risk factors this annual report on form 10-k contains certain forward-looking information about us that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. words such as expect, will, may, anticipate, plan, estimate, intend, should, can, likely, could and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. these statements include statements about the expected benefits of the merger, our plans, strategies and prospects. forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. these statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of our management and are subject to risk and uncertainties, including the risks set forth below in these risk factors, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. in light of these risks, uncertainties, assumptions and factors, the results anticipated by the forward-looking statements discussed in this annual report on form 10-k may not occur. readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date hereof. except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, we undertake no obligation to update or publish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. we may experience difficulties integrating allied business. achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger with allied will depend significantly on whether we can integrate allied business in an efficient and effective manner. although republic and allied were able to conduct some planning regarding the integration of the two companies prior to the merger, we might not have determined the exact nature of how the businesses and operations of the two companies will be combined after the merger. the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be realized. we may not be able to accomplish the integration process smoothly, successfully or on a timely basis. the necessity of coordinating geographically separated organizations, information systems and facilities, and addressing possible differences in business backgrounds, corporate cultures and management philosophies, may increase the difficulties of integration. we and allied operate numerous systems and controls, including those 15 table of contents involving information management, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing, employee benefits, payroll and regulatory compliance. the integration of operations following the merger will require the dedication of significant management and external resources, which may temporarily distract management attention from our day-to-day business and be costly. employee uncertainty and lack of focus during the integration process may also disrupt our business. the inability of our management to successfully and timely integrate the operations of republic and allied could have a material adverse effect on the business and results of operations of the combined company. we may not realize the anticipated synergies and related benefits from the merger with allied fully or within the timing anticipated. we entered into the merger agreement with allied because we believe that the merger will be beneficial to our stockholders primarily as a result of the anticipated synergies resulting from the combined operations. we may not be able to achieve the anticipated operating and cost synergies or the long-term strategic benefits of the merger fully or within the timing anticipated. for example, elimination of duplicative costs may not be fully achieved or may take longer than anticipated. for at least the first year after an acquisition, and possibly longer, the benefits from the acquisition will be offset by the costs incurred in integrating the businesses and operations. the inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated synergies or other benefits of the merger, or our encountering delays in the integration process (which may delay the timing of such synergies or other benefits), could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. future expenses resulting from the application of the purchase method of accounting may adversely affect the market value of our common stock following the merger. in accordance with gaap, we are considered the acquirer of allied for accounting purposes. we have accounted for the merger using the purchase method of accounting. there may be future expenses related to the acquisition that are required to be recorded in our earnings that could adversely affect the market value of our common stock following the completion of the merger. under the purchase method of accounting, we have allocated the total purchase price to the assets (including identifiable intangible assets) and liabilities acquired from allied based on their fair values as of the effective date of the merger, and we have recorded the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. for certain tangible and intangible assets, and for our capping, closure and post-closure asset retirement obligations, revaluing them to their fair values as of the merger completion date will result in additional depreciation, depletion and amortization and accretion expense that will exceed the combined amounts recorded by republic and allied prior to the merger. interest expense will increase significantly as a result of revaluing allied debt and other long-term liabilities, including, for example, self-insurance reserves and environmental liabilities. in addition, as discussed in the following risk factor, to the extent the value of goodwill or other intangible assets were to become impaired after the merger, we may incur material non-cash charges to our results of operations. our goodwill and other intangible assets may become impaired, which could result in material non-cash charges to our results of operations. we have a substantial amount of goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from the merger with allied. at least annually, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment in the carrying value as defined by gaap, we evaluate this goodwill for impairment based on the fair values of each of our operating segments. the estimated fair value of our operating segments could change if there are changes in our capital structure, cost of debt, interest rates, capital expenditure levels, operating cash flows or market capitalization, or in general economic conditions. impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets could require material non-cash charges to our results of operations. 16 table of contents we may incur significant unexpected transaction- and integration-related costs in connection with the merger. we have incurred and may continue to incur costs associated with combining the operations of republic and allied, including charges and payments to some employees pursuant to change in control contractual obligations. the substantial majority of these expenses resulting from the merger are comprised of transaction costs related to the merger, facilities and systems consolidation costs, and employee-related costs. additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the two companies businesses or may result from the application of purchase accounting used to effectuate the merger. the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, may not offset incremental transaction- and other integration-related costs in the near term. the timing of and proceeds received from the mandatory divestiture of certain assets of the company may result in additional expenditures of money and resources or reduce the benefit of the merger. completion of the merger is predicated on divesting of certain assets as required by the antitrust division of the doj under the hsr act. in february 2009, we announced an agreement with waste connections, inc. to sell them a majority of the assets we are required to divest. the assets being divested to waste connections include six municipal solid waste landfills, six collection operations and three transfer stations across seven markets. this transaction is subject to closing conditions regarding due diligence, regulatory approval and other customary matters. closing is expected to occur in the second quarter of 2009. however, the timing of and proceeds we will receive from the divestiture to waste connections and the divestiture of the remaining assets as required by the doj cannot be predicted. delays in divesting of these assets may result in additional expenditures of money and resources which would reduce the financial benefit we expect from the merger. in addition, the amount of proceeds received from such divestitures cannot be guaranteed. an unanticipated shortfall in proceeds may limit our ability to execute our financial strategy, including repaying our debt. we have substantial indebtedness as a result of the merger, which may limit our financial flexibility. as of december 31, 2008, we have approximately $7.7 billion in total debt outstanding. this amount of indebtedness and our debt service requirements may limit our financial flexibility to access additional capital and make capital expenditures and other investments in our business, to withstand economic downturns and interest rate increases, to plan for or react to changes in our business and our industry, and to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants of our debt instruments. further, our ability to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in our debt instruments may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions or other events that are beyond our control. if we do not comply with these covenants and restrictions, we may be required to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, reducing dividends, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of our existing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. the downturn in the u.s. economy may have an adverse impact on our operating results. a weak economy generally results in decreases in the volumes of waste generated. in the past, weakness in the u.s. economy has had a negative effect on our operating results, including decreases in revenue and operating cash flows. previous economic slowdowns have negatively impacted the portion of our collection business servicing the manufacturing and construction industries and our proceeds from sales of recycled commodities. as a result of the global economic crisis, we may experience the negative effects of increased competitive pricing pressure and customer turnover as well. there can be no assurance that worsening economic conditions or a prolonged or recurring recession will not have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations or cash flows. further, there can be no assurance that an improvement in economic conditions will result in an immediate, if at all positive, improvement in our results of operations or cash flows. 17 table of contents the downturn in the u.s. economy may expose us to credit risk for amounts due from governmental agencies, large national accounts and others. the weak u.s. economy has reduced the amount of taxes collected by various governmental agencies. we provide services to a number of these agencies including numerous municipalities. these governmental agencies may suffer financial difficulties resulting from a decrease in tax revenue and may ultimately be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us. in addition, the weak economy may cause other customers, including our large national accounts, to suffer financial difficulties and ultimately be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us. this could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. the downturn in the u.s. economy and in the financial markets could expose us to counter-party risk associated with our derivatives. to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in various commodities and interest rates, we have entered into a number of derivative agreements. these derivative agreements require us or the counter-party to such agreements to make payments to the other party if the price of certain commodities or interest rates exceed a specified amount. a continued downturn in the u.s. economy or in the financial markets could adversely impact the financial stability of the counter-parties with which we do business, potentially limiting their ability to fulfill their obligations under our derivative agreements. this could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows. the waste industry is highly competitive and includes competitors that may have greater financial and operational resources, flexibility to reduce prices and other competitive advantages that could make it difficult for us to compete effectively. we principally compete with large national waste management companies, municipalities and numerous regional and local companies for collection and disposal accounts. competition for collection accounts is primarily based on price and the quality of services. competition for landfill business is primarily based on disposal costs, geographic location and quality of operations. some of our competitors may have greater financial and operational resources than us. many counties and municipalities that operate their own waste collection and disposal facilities have the benefits of tax revenue or tax-exempt financing. our ability to obtain solid waste volume for our landfills may also be limited by the fact that some major collection companies also own or operate landfills to which they send their waste. in markets in which we do not own or operate a landfill, our collection operations may operate at a disadvantage to fully integrated competitors. as a result of these factors, we may have difficulty competing effectively from time to time or in certain markets. if we were to lower prices to address these competitive issues, it could negatively impact our revenue growth and profitability. price increases may not be adequate to offset the impact of increased costs and may cause us to lose volume. we compete for collection accounts primarily on the basis of price and the quality of services. in addition, we seek to secure price increases necessary to offset increased costs (including fuel costs), to improve operating margins and to obtain adequate returns on our substantial investments in assets such as our landfills. from time to time, our competitors may reduce the price of their services in an effort to expand their market share. contractual, general economic or market-specific conditions may also limit our ability to raise prices. as a result of these factors, we may be unable to offset increases in costs, improve our operating margins and obtain adequate investment returns through price increases. we may also lose volume to lower-cost competitors. increases in the cost of fuel or oil will increase our operating expenses, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover fuel or oil cost increases from our customers. our operations are dependent on fuel to run our collection and transfer trucks and other equipment used for collection, transfer, and disposal. we buy fuel in the open market. fuel prices are unpredictable and can 18 table of contents fluctuate significantly based on events beyond our control, including geopolitical developments, actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries, and other oil and gas producers, supply and demand for oil and gas, war, terrorism and unrest in oil-producing countries, and regional production patterns. we may not be able to offset such volatility through fuel surcharges. for example, our fuel costs were $235.3 million in 2008, representing 9.7% of our cost of operations compared to $180.3 million in 2007, representing 9.0% of our cost of operations. this increase primarily reflects an increase in the price of fuel. in addition, regulations affecting the type of fuel our trucks use are changing and could materially increase the cost and consumption of our fuel. our operations also require the use of certain petroleum-based products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of oil. an increase in the price of oil could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs. we are also susceptible to increases in indirect fuel surcharges from our vendors. fluctuations in prices for recycled commodities that we sell to customers may adversely affect our revenue, operating income and cash flows. we process recyclable materials such as paper, cardboard, plastics, aluminum and other metals for sale to third parties. our results of operations may be affected by changing prices or market requirements for recyclable materials. the resale and purchase prices of, and market demand for, recyclable materials can be volatile due to changes in economic conditions and numerous other factors beyond our control. these fluctuations may affect our future revenue, operating income and cash flows. adverse weather conditions may limit our operations and increase the costs of collection and disposal. our collection and landfill operations could be adversely impacted by extended periods of inclement weather, which could increase the volume of waste collected under our existing contracts (without corresponding compensation), may interfere with collection and landfill operations, delay the development of landfill capacity or reduce the volume of waste generated by our customers. in addition, weather conditions may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect our operating results in the affected regions during those periods. we currently have matters pending with the doj and internal revenue service (irs), which could result in large cash expenditures and could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and cash flows. as a result of the merger with allied, we are currently under examination by the irs with regard to allied federal income tax returns for tax years 2000 through 2006. an allied subsidiary, browning-ferris industries, llc (bfi, f/k/a browning-ferris industries, inc.), currently has a tax matter in litigation for the tax years ended september 30, 1997 through july 30, 1999 related to a capital loss deduction. a portion of this loss was subsequently carried forward to allied 1999 through 2002 tax years. we are currently engaged in two refund suits related to this matter. the bfi tax years september 30, 1997 through july 30, 1999 are currently before the u.s. court of federal claims, while the allied tax year ended december 31, 1999 is currently before the u.s. district court of arizona. all future tax years impacted by the bfi capital loss deduction and subsequent carryforward by allied are presently in various stages of the irs examination or appeals process. any resolution or final determination on the merits for an earlier tax year will also resolve the issue for all subsequent periods. during its examination of allied 2002 tax year, the irs asserted that a 2002 redemption of four partnership interests in waste-to-energy businesses should have been recharacterized as disguised sale transactions. this issue is currently before the appeals division of the irs. for both of the matters described above, the potential tax and interest through december 31, 2008 (to the extent unpaid) has been fully reserved for in our consolidated balance sheet. a disallowance would not 19 table of contents materially affect our consolidated results of operations; however, a deficiency payment would adversely impact our cash flow in the period the payment was made. in addition, for the capital loss deduction matter described above, the potential penalty and penalty-related interest through december 31, 2008 has also been fully reserved for in our consolidated balance sheet. the successful assertion by the irs of penalty and penalty-related interest in this matter would not materially affect our consolidated results of operations; however, a payment of penalty and penalty-related interest would adversely impact our cash flows in the period such payment was made. the accrual of additional interest charges through the time these matters are resolved will affect our consolidated results of operations. in addition, the successful assertion by the irs of penalty and penalty-related interest in connection with allied 2002 exchange of partnership interests could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations and cash flows. additionally, during its examination of allied 2000 through 2003 tax years, the irs proposed that certain landfill costs be allocated to the collection and control of methane gas that is naturally emitted from landfills. the irs position is that the methane gas emitted by a landfill constitutes a joint product resulting from landfill operations and, therefore, associated costs should not be expensed until the methane gas is sold or otherwise disposed. we believe we have several meritorious defenses, including the fact that methane gas is not actively produced for sale by us but rather arises naturally in the context of providing disposal services. therefore, we believe that the resolution of this issue will not have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. for additional information on these matters, see note 10, income taxes, to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k. other matters may also arise in the course of tax audits that could adversely impact our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we may be unable to execute our financial strategy. our ability to execute our financial strategy is dependent on our ability to maintain investment grade ratings on our senior debt. the credit rating process is contingent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our investment grade ratings in the future. our interest expense would increase and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms may be adversely affected should we fail to maintain investment grade ratings. our financial strategy is also dependent on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to reinvest in our existing business, fund internal growth, acquire other solid waste businesses, pay dividends, reduce indebtedness and minimize borrowings, and take other actions to enhance shareholder value. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in executing our broad-based pricing program, that we will generate sufficient cash flow to execute our financial strategy, that we will be able to pay cash dividends at our present rate or that we will be able to increase the amount of such dividends. a downgrade in our bond ratings could adversely affect our liquidity by increasing the cost of debt and financial assurance instruments. while downgrades of our bond ratings may not have an immediate impact on our cost of debt or liquidity, they may impact our cost of debt and liquidity over the near to medium term. if the rating agencies downgrade our debt, this may increase the interest rate we must pay to issue new debt, and it may even make it prohibitively expensive for us to issue new debt. if our debt ratings are downgraded, future access to financial assurance markets at a reasonable cost, or at all, also may be adversely impacted. 20 table of contents the solid waste industry is a capital-intensive industry and the amount we spend on capital expenditures may exceed current expectations, which could require us to obtain additional funding for our operations or impair our ability to grow our business. our ability to remain competitive and to grow and expand our operations largely depends on our cash flow from operations and access to capital. if our capital efficiency programs are unable to offset the impact of inflation and business growth, it may be necessary to increase the amount we spend. additionally, if we make acquisitions or further expand our operations, the amount we expend on capital, capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation expenditures will increase. our cash needs will also increase if the expenditures for capping, closure, post-closure and remediation activities increase above our current estimates, which may occur over a long period due to changes in federal, state or local government requirements and other factors beyond our control. increases in expenditures would negatively impact our cash flows. further, federal regulations have tightened the emission standards on class a vehicles, which includes the collection vehicles we purchase. as a result, we could experience an increase in capital costs and a reduction in operating efficiency. this could also cause an increase in vehicle operating costs. we may reduce the number of vehicles we purchase until manufacturers adopt the new standards to increase efficiency. we may be unable to obtain or maintain required permits or to expand existing permitted capacity of our landfills, which could decrease our revenue and increase our costs. there can be no assurance that we will successfully obtain or maintain the permits we require to operate our business because permits to operate non-hazardous solid waste landfills and to expand the permitted capacity of existing landfills have become more difficult and expensive to obtain and maintain. permits often take years to obtain as a result of numerous hearings and compliance requirements with regard to zoning, environmental and other regulations. these permits are also often subject to resistance from citizen or other groups and other political pressures. local communities and citizen groups, adjacent landowners or governmental agencies may oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we may need, allege violations of the permits under which we currently operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. responding to these challenges has, at times, increased our costs and extended the time associated with establishing new facilities and expanding existing facilities. in addition, failure to receive regulatory and zoning approval may prohibit us from establishing new facilities, maintaining permits for our facilities or expanding existing facilities. our failure to obtain the required permits to operate our non-hazardous solid waste landfills could have a material adverse impact on our future results of operations or cash flows. in addition, we may have to dispose collected waste at landfills operated by our competitors or haul the waste long distances at a higher cost to one of our landfills, either of which could significantly increase our waste disposal costs. the waste industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and existing or future regulations may restrict our operations, increase our costs of operations or require us to make additional capital expenditures. if we inadequately accrue for landfill capping, closure and post-closure costs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. a landfill must be closed and capped, and post-closure maintenance commenced once the permitted capacity of the landfill is reached and additional capacity is not authorized. we have significant financial obligations relating to capping, closure and post-closure costs at our existing owned or operated landfills, and will have material financial obligations with respect to any future owned or operated disposal facilities. we establish accruals for the estimated costs associated with capping, closure and post-closure financial obligations. we could underestimate such accruals, and our financial obligations for capping, closure or post-closure costs could exceed the amount accrued and reserved or amounts otherwise receivable pursuant to trust funds established for this purpose. such a shortfall could result in significant 21 table of contents unanticipated charges to income. additionally, if a landfill is required to be closed earlier than expected or its remaining airspace is reduced for any other reason, the accruals for capping, closure and post-closure could be required to be accelerated, which could have a material adverse impact our results of operations and cash flows. we cannot assure you that we will continue to operate our landfills at currently estimated volumes due to the use of alternatives to landfill disposal caused by state requirements or voluntary initiatives. most of the states in which we operate landfills require counties and municipalities to formulate comprehensive plans to reduce the volume of solid waste deposited in landfills through waste planning, composting and recycling, or other programs. some state and local governments mandate waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of wastes, such as yard waste, at landfills. although such actions are useful in protecting our environment, these actions, as well as voluntary private initiatives by customers to reduce waste or seek disposal alternatives, have and may in the future reduce the volume of waste going to landfills in certain areas. if this occurs, there can be no assurance that we will be able to operate our landfills at their current estimated volumes or charge current prices for landfill disposal services due to the decrease in demand for such services. the possibility of landfill and transfer station site development projects, expansion projects or pending acquisitions not being completed or certain other events could result in a material charge to income. we capitalize certain expenditures relating to development, expansion and other projects. if a facility or operation is permanently shut down or determined to be impaired, or a development or expansion project is not completed or is determined to be impaired, we will charge any unamortized capitalized expenditures to income relating to such facility or project that we are unable to recover through sale, transfer or otherwise. in future periods, we may incur charges against earnings in accordance with this policy, or other events may cause impairments. such charges could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to costly environmental regulations and flow-control regulations that may affect our operating margins, restrict our operations and subject us to additional liability. complying with laws and regulations governing the use, treatment, storage, transfer and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and materials, air quality, water quality and the remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances is costly. laws and regulations often require us to enhance or replace our equipment and to modify landfill operations or initiate final closure of a landfill. there can be no assurance that we will be able to implement price increases sufficient to offset the costs of complying with these laws and regulations. in addition, environmental regulatory changes could accelerate or increase expenditures for capping, closure and post-closure, and environmental and remediation activities at solid waste facilities and obligate us to spend sums in addition to those presently accrued for such purposes. our collection, transfer, and landfill operations are, and may in the future continue to be, affected by state or local laws or regulations that restrict the transportation of solid waste across state, county or other jurisdictional lines. such laws and regulations could negatively affect our operations resulting in declines in landfill volumes and increased costs of alternate disposal. in addition to the costs of complying with environmental regulations, we incur costs to defend against litigation brought by government agencies and private parties who may allege we are in violation of our permits and applicable environmental laws and regulations, or who assert claims alleging environmental damage, personal injury or property damage. as a result, we may be required to pay fines or implement corrective measures, or we may have our permits and licenses modified or revoked. a significant judgment 22 table of contents against us, the loss of a significant permit or license, or the imposition of a significant fine could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we establish accruals for our estimates of the costs associated with our environmental obligations. we could underestimate such accruals and remediation costs could exceed amounts accrued. such shortfalls could result in significant unanticipated charges to income. we may have potential environmental liabilities that are not covered by our insurance. changes in insurance markets may also impact our financial results. we may incur liabilities for the deterioration of the environment as a result of our operations. we maintain high deductibles for our environmental liability insurance coverage. if we were to incur substantial liability for environmental damage, our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover such liability. this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. also, due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we may experience future increases in self-insurance levels as a result of increased retention levels and increased premiums. as we assume more risk for self-insurance through higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in our self-insurance reserves and expense. despite our efforts, we may incur additional hazardous substances liability in excess of amounts presently known and accrued. we are a potentially responsible party at many sites under cercla, which provides for the remediation of contaminated facilities and imposes strict, joint and several liability for the cost of remediation on current owners and operators of a facility at which there has been a release or a threatened release of a hazardous substance, on parties who were site owners and operators at the time hazardous substance(s) was disposed of, and on persons who arrange for the disposal of such substances at the facility (i.e., generators of the waste and transporters who selected the disposal site). hundreds of substances are defined as hazardous under cercla and their presence, even in minute amounts, can result in substantial liability. notwithstanding our efforts to comply with applicable regulations and to avoid transporting and receiving hazardous substances, we may have additional liability under cercla or similar laws in excess of our current reserves because such substances may be present in waste collected by us or disposed of in our landfills, or in waste collected, transported or disposed of in the past by companies we have acquired. actual costs for these liabilities could be significantly greater than amounts presently accrued for these purposes, which could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. we are, and from time to time become, involved in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of our business. many of these matters raise difficult and complicated factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties and complexities. the timing of the final resolutions to these types of matters is often uncertain. additionally, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments, adversely affecting our results of operations and cash flows. we may be unable to manage our growth effectively. our growth strategy places significant demands on our financial, operational and management resources. in order to continue our growth, we may need to add administrative and other personnel, and will need to make additional investments in operations and systems. there can be no assurance that we will be able to find and train qualified personnel, or do so on a timely basis, or expand our operations and systems to the extent, and in the time, required. 23 table of contents we may be unable to execute our acquisition growth strategy. our ability to execute our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to identify and acquire desirable acquisition candidates as well as our ability to successfully consolidate acquired operations into our business. the consolidation of our operations with those of acquired companies may present significant challenges to our management. in addition, competition among our competitors for acquisition candidates may prevent us from acquiring certain acquisition candidates. as such, we cannot assure you that: desirable acquisition candidates exist or will be identified, we will be able to acquire any of the candidates identified, we will effectively consolidate companies we acquire, or any acquisitions will be profitable or accretive to our earnings. if any of the aforementioned factors force us to alter our growth strategy, our growth prospects could be adversely affected. businesses we acquire may have undisclosed liabilities. in pursuing our acquisition strategy, our investigations of the acquisition candidates may fail to discover certain undisclosed liabilities of the acquisition candidates. if we acquire a company having undisclosed liabilities such as environmental, remediation or contractual, as a successor owner we may be responsible for such undisclosed liabilities. we expect to try to minimize our exposure to such liabilities by obtaining indemnification from each of the sellers of the acquired companies, by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase price as security for the indemnification and by acquiring only specified assets. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain indemnifications or that they will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any undisclosed liabilities arising from our acquisitions. our consolidated financial statements are based on estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with gaap and necessarily include amounts based on estimates and assumptions made by management. actual results could differ from these amounts. significant items requiring management to make subjective or complex judgements about matters that are inherently uncertain include the carrying value of long-lived assets, the depletion and amortization of landfill development costs, accruals for final capping, closure and post-closure costs, valuation allowances for accounts receivable and deferred tax assets, liabilities for potential litigation, claims and assessments, and liabilities for environmental remediation, employee benefit and pension plans, deferred taxes, uncertain tax positions and self-insurance. there can be no assurance that the liabilities recorded for landfill and environmental costs will be adequate to cover the requirements of existing environmental regulations, future changes to or interpretations of existing regulations, or the identification of adverse environmental conditions previously unknown to management. the introduction of new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our results of operations. complying with new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or funding requirements, or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our results of operations in future periods. 24 table of contents we may be subject to workforce influences, including work stoppages, which could increase our operating costs and disrupt our operations. as of december 31, 2008, approximately 27% of our workforce was represented by various local labor unions. if, in the future, our unionized workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and an increase in our operating costs, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. in addition, if a greater percentage of our workforce becomes unionized, our business and financial results could be materially and adversely impacted due to the potential for increased operating costs. our obligation to fund multi-employer pension plans to which we contribute may have an adverse impact on us. we contribute to at least 25 multi-employer pension plans covering at least 22% of our current employees. we do not administer these plans and generally are not represented on the boards of trustees of these plans. the pension protection act enacted in 2006 requires under-funded pension plans to improve their funding ratios. we do not have current plan financial information for the multi-employer plans to which we contribute but, based on the information available to us, we believe that some of them are under-funded. we cannot determine at this time the amount of additional funding, if any, we may be required to make to these plans and, therefore, have not recorded any related liabilities. however, plan assessments could have an adverse impact on our results of operations or cash flows for a given period. furthermore, under current law, upon the termination of a multi-employer pension plan, or in the event of a mass withdrawal of contributing employers, we would be required to make payments to the plan for our proportionate share of the plan unfunded vested liabilities. there can be no assurance that there will not be a termination of, or mass withdrawal of employers contributing to, any of the multi-employer pension plans to which we contribute or that, in the event of such a termination or mass withdrawal, the amounts we would be required to contribute would not have a material adverse impact on our results of operations or cash flows. the costs of providing for pension benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in pension fund values and fluctuating actuarial assumptions, and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we sponsor a defined benefit pension plan which is funded with trustee assets invested in a diversified portfolio of debt and equity securities. our costs for providing such benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in the market value of plan assets. the recent significant decline in the markets resulted in our recording a value for the plan assets that significantly differed from the plan asset value allied had recorded in its financial statements prior to the merger. a continuation or further decline in the value of these investments could increase our pension expenses and related funding requirements in the future. additionally, our pension expenses and related funding requirements are also subject to various actuarial calculations and assumptions, which may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, interest rates and other factors. a significant increase in our pension obligations and funding requirements could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. the loss of key personnel could have material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. our future success depends on the continued contributions of several key employees and officers. the loss of the services of key employees and officers, whether such loss is through resignation or other causes, or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 75 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk the table below provides information about certain of our market-sensitive financial instruments and constitutes a forward-looking statement. our major market risk exposure is changing interest rates in the united states and fluctuations in libor. we intend to manage interest rate risk through the use of a combination of fixed and floating rate debt. all items described below are non-trading. expected maturity date fair value of (asset)/ liability as of december 31, 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter total 2008 fixed rate debt: amount outstanding (in millions) $ 107.4 $ 387.5 $ 1,138.1 $ 38.4 $ 464.2 $ 4,463.7 $ 6,599.3 $ 6,143.8 average interest rates 7.25 % 6.65 % 6.33 % 6.28 % 7.91 % 6.33 % 6.47 % variable rate debt: amount outstanding (in millions) $ 400.0 $ $ $ $ 675.0 $ 850.1 $ 1,925.1 $ 1,893.7 average interest rates 3.00 % 3.19 % 1.24 % 2.29 % interest rate swaps: fixed to variable notional amount (in millions) $ $ $ 210.0 $ $ $ $ 210.0 $ 15.1 average pay rate % % 3.74 % % % % 3.74 % average receive rate % % 6.75 % % % % 6.75 % the fair value of variable rate debt approximates the carrying value, since interest rates are variable and, thus, approximate current market rates. fuel price risk fuel costs represent a significant operating expense. when economically practical, we may enter into new or renewal contracts, or engage in other strategies to mitigate market risk. where appropriate, we have implemented a fuel recovery fee that is designed to recover our fuel costs. while we charge these fees to a majority of our customers, we are unable to charge such fees to all customers. consequently, an increase in fuel costs results in (1) an increase in our cost of operations, (2) a smaller increase in our revenue (from the fuel recovery fee) and (3) a decrease in our operating margin percentage, since the increase in revenue is more than offset by the increase in cost. conversely, a decrease in fuel costs results in (1) a decrease in our cost of operations, (2) a smaller decrease in our revenue and (3) an increase in our operating margin percentage. at our current consumption levels, a one-cent change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel costs by approximately $1.7 million on an annual basis, which would be partially offset by a smaller change in the fuel recovery fees charged to our customers. accordingly, a substantial rise or drop in fuel costs could result in a material impact to our revenue and cost of operations. our operations also require the use of certain petroleum-based products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of oil. an increase in the price of oil could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs. we are also susceptible to increases in indirect fuel surcharges from our vendors. commodities prices we market recycled products such as cardboard and newspaper from our material recycling facilities. as a result, changes in the market prices of these items will impact our results of operations. revenue from sales of recycled cardboard and newspaper in 2008, 2007 and 2006 were approximately $121.1 million, $113.9 million and $80.1 million, respectively. 75 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors this form 10-k contains certain forward-looking information about us that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. words such as guidance, expect, will, may, anticipate, plan, estimate, project, intend, should, can, likely, could, outlook and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. these statements include statements about our plans, strategies and prospects. forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. these statements are based upon our management's current beliefs and expectations and are subject to risk and uncertainties, including the risks set forth below in these risk factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the expectations will prove to be correct. according, you should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this form 10-k. except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, we undertake no obligation to update or publish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this form 10-k or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. we have substantial indebtedness, which may limit our financial flexibility. as of december 31, 2012, we had approximately $7 billion in principal value of debt and capital leases outstanding. this amount of indebtedness and our debt service requirements may limit our financial flexibility to access additional capital and make capital expenditures and other investments in our business, to withstand economic downturns and interest rate increases, to plan for or react to changes in our business and our industry, and to comply with the financial and other covenants of our debt instruments. further, our ability to comply with these financial and other covenants may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions or other events that are beyond our control. if we do not comply with these covenants, we may be required to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, reducing or eliminating dividends or stock repurchases, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of our existing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. general economic conditions can directly and adversely affect our operating results. our business is directly affected by changes in national and general economic factors and overall economic activity that are outside of our control, including consumer confidence and interest rates. a weak economy generally results in decreases in volumes of waste generated, which adversely affects our revenues. in addition, we have a relatively high fixed-cost structure, which is difficult to adjust quickly to match declining waste volume levels. consumer uncertainty and the loss of consumer confidence may decrease overall economic activity and thereby limit the amount of services we provide. additionally, the decline in waste volumes may result in increased competitive pricing pressure and increased customer turnover, resulting in lower revenue and increased operating costs. recent and continuing economic conditions have negatively impacted the portion of our collection business servicing commercial and industrial accounts in general and the manufacturing and construction industries in particular. we cannot assure you that worsening economic conditions would not have a significant adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. further, recovery in the solid waste industry historically has lagged behind recovery in the general economy. accordingly, we cannot assure you that an improvement in general economic conditions will result in an immediate, or any, improvement in our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 12 table of contents the weak u.s. economy may expose us to credit risk for amounts due from governmental agencies, large national accounts, industrial customers and others. the weak u.s. economy has reduced the amount of taxes collected by various governmental agencies. we provide services to a number of these agencies, including numerous municipalities. these governmental agencies may suffer financial difficulties resulting from a decrease in tax revenue and may ultimately be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us. in addition, the weak economy may cause other customers, including our large national accounts or industrial clients, to suffer financial difficulties and ultimately to be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us. this could negatively impact our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the waste industry is highly competitive and includes competitors that may have greater financial and operational resources, flexibility to reduce prices or other competitive advantages that could make it difficult for us to compete effectively. we principally compete with large national waste management companies, numerous municipalities, and numerous regional and local companies. competition for collection accounts is primarily based on price and the quality of services. competition for disposal business is primarily based on price, geographic location and quality of operations. one of our competitors may have greater financial and operational resources than we do. further, many counties and municipalities that operate their own waste collection and disposal facilities have the benefits of tax revenue or tax-exempt financing. our ability to obtain solid waste volume for our landfills also may be limited by the fact that some major collection operations also own or operate landfills to which they send their waste. in markets in which we do not own or operate a landfill, our collection operations may operate at a disadvantage to fully integrated competitors. as a result of these factors, from time to time we may have difficulty competing effectively in certain markets. if we were to lose market share or if we were to lower prices to address competitive issues, it could negatively impact our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. price increases may not be adequate to offset the impact of increased costs and may cause us to lose volume. we seek to secure price increases necessary to offset higher costs, to maintain or improve operating margins, and to obtain adequate returns on our substantial investments in assets such as our landfills. from time to time, our competitors reduce their prices in an effort to expand their market share. contractual, general economic or market-specific conditions also may limit our ability to raise prices. for example, many of our contracts have price adjustment provisions that are tied to an index such as the consumer price index. particularly in a weak u.s. economy such as the current one, our costs may increase in excess of the increase, if any, in the consumer price index. this may continue to be the case even when the u.s. economy recovers because a recovery in the solid waste industry historically has lagged behind a recovery in the general economy. as a result, we may be unable to offset increases in costs, improve our operating margins and obtain adequate investment returns through price increases. price increases also might cause us to lose volume to lower-cost competitors. increases in the cost of fuel or petrochemicals would increase our operating expenses, and we cannot assure you that we would be able to recover such cost increases from our customers. we depend on fuel purchased in the open market to operate our collection and transfer trucks and other equipment used for collection, transfer and disposal. fuel prices are unpredictable and fluctuate significantly based on events beyond our control, including geopolitical developments, actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries and other oil and gas producers, supply and demand for oil and gas, war, terrorism and unrest in oil-producing countries, adverse weather and regional production patterns. due to contractual or market factors, we may not be able to offset such volatility through fuel recovery fees. our fuel costs were $530.1 million in 2012, or 6.5% of revenue, compared to $516.5 million in 2011, or 6.3% of our revenue. to manage our exposure to volatility in fuel prices, we have entered into multiple swap agreements whereby we receive or make payments to counter-parties should the price of fuel vary from a specified amount. during 2012, approximately 8% of our fuel volume purchases were hedged with swap agreements. additionally, we are able to collect fuel recovery fees from some customers. for 2012, we were able to recover approximately 67% of our fuel costs with fuel recovery fees. at current consumption levels, a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel costs by approximately $24 million on an annual basis. offsetting these changes in fuel expense would be changes in our fuel recovery fee charged to our customers. at current participation rates, a twenty-cent change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel recovery fee by approximately $19 million. accordingly, a substantial rise or drop in fuel costs could result in a material impact to our revenue and cost of operations. over the last several years, regulations have been adopted mandating changes in the composition of fuels for motor vehicles. the renewable fuel standards that epa sets annually affect the type of fuel our motor vehicle fleet uses. pursuant to the energy independence and security act of 2007, epa establishes annual renewable fuel volume requirements and separate volume 13 table of contents requirements for four different categories of renewable fuels (renewable fuel, advanced biofuel, cellulosic biofuel, and biomass-based diesel). these volume requirements set standards for the proportion of refiners' or importers' total fuel volume that must be renewable and must take into account the fuels' impact on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. these regulations are one of many factors that may affect the cost of the fuel we use. our operations also require the use of products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of petrochemicals. an increase in the price of petrochemicals could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs. petrochemical prices, and hence our operating and capital costs, may be further affected by regulatory efforts to reduce greenhouse gases from the industries that produce such petrochemicals. we are also susceptible to increases in indirect fuel recovery fees from our vendors. fluctuations in prices for recycled commodities that we sell to customers may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we purchase or collect and process recyclable materials such as paper, cardboard, plastics, aluminum and other metals for sale to third parties. our results of operations may be affected by changing prices or market requirements for recyclable materials. the resale and purchase prices of, and market demand for, recyclable materials are volatile due to changes in economic conditions and numerous other factors beyond our control. these fluctuations may affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. to manage our exposure to fluctuations in prices for recycled commodities, we have entered into multiple hedging arrangements whereby we receive or make payments to counter-parties should the price of recycled commodities vary from a specified amount or range. during 2012, approximately 41% of our tonnage sold was hedged with such arrangements. at current volumes and mix of materials, we believe a ten dollar per ton change in the price of recyclable materials will change annual revenue and operating income by approximately $29 million and $20 million, respectively, on an annual basis. accordingly, a substantial rise or drop in recycled commodity prices could result in a material impact to our revenue and cost of operations. adverse weather conditions, including those brought about by climate change, may limit our operations and increase the costs of collection and disposal. our collection and landfill operations could be adversely impacted by extended periods of inclement weather, or by increased severity of weather and climate extremes resulting from climate change, some of which we may already be experiencing. recent studies suggest that global warming is occurring faster than previously projected, with the world bank now projecting a 7.2 fahrenheit temperature increase by the end of the century. in addition to sea level rise, this temperature increase is expected to result in more severe droughts, floods, and other extreme weather events. any of this could increase the volume of waste collected under our existing contracts (without corresponding compensation), interfere with collection and landfill operations, delay the development of landfill capacity or reduce the volume of waste generated by our customers. in addition, adverse weather conditions may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect our operating results in the affected regions during those periods. we may be unable to maintain our credit ratings or execute our financial strategy. our ability to execute our financial strategy depends in part on our ability to maintain investment grade ratings on our debt. the credit rating process is contingent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our investment grade ratings in the future. if we were unable to do so, our interest expense would increase and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms may be adversely affected. our financial strategy also depends on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to reinvest in our existing business, fund internal growth, acquire other solid waste businesses, pay dividends, repurchase stock, and take other actions to enhance stockholder value. we cannot assure you that we will succeed in executing our broad-based pricing initiatives, that we will generate sufficient cash flow to execute our financial strategy, that we will be able to pay cash dividends at our present rate, or increase them, or that we will be able to continue our share repurchase program. the solid waste industry is a capital-intensive industry and our capital expenditures may exceed current expectations, which could require us to obtain additional funding for our operations or impair our ability to grow our business. our ability to remain competitive and to grow our business largely depends on our cash flow from operations and access to capital. if our capital efficiency programs cannot offset the impact of inflation and business growth, it may be necessary to increase the amount we spend. additionally, if we make acquisitions or further expand our operations, the amount we spend on capital, capping, closure, post-closure, environmental remediation and other items will increase. our cash needs also will 14 table of contents increase if the expenditures for capping, closure, post-closure and remediation activities increase above our current estimates, which may occur over a long period due to changes in federal, state or local government requirements and other factors beyond our control. increases in expenditures would negatively impact our cash flows. we may be unable to obtain or maintain required permits or to expand existing permitted capacity of our landfills, which could decrease our revenue and increase our costs. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain the permits we require to operate because permits to operate new landfills and transfer stations and to expand the permitted capacity of existing landfills have become more difficult and expensive to obtain and maintain. permits often take years to obtain as a result of numerous hearings and compliance requirements with regard to zoning, environmental and other regulations. these permits are also often subject to resistance from citizen or other groups and other political pressures. local communities and citizen groups, adjacent landowners or governmental agencies may oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we may need, allege violations of the permits under which we currently operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. responding to these challenges has at times increased our costs and extended the time associated with establishing new landfills and transfer stations and expanding existing landfills. in addition, failure to receive regulatory and zoning approval may prohibit us from establishing new landfills or transfer stations or expanding existing landfills. our failure to obtain the required permits to operate our landfills and transfer stations could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, we may have to dispose collected waste at landfills operated by our competitors or haul the waste long distances at a higher cost to one of our other landfills, either of which could significantly increase our waste disposal costs. if we do not appropriately estimate landfill capping, closure and post-closure costs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. a landfill must be closed and capped, and post-closure maintenance commenced, once the landfill's permitted capacity is reached and additional capacity is not authorized. we have significant financial obligations relating to capping, closure and post-closure costs at our existing owned or operated landfills, and will have material financial obligations with respect to any future owned or operated landfills. we establish accruals for the estimated costs associated with capping, closure and post-closure financial obligations. we could underestimate such costs, and our financial obligations for capping, closure or post-closure costs could exceed the amounts accrued or amounts otherwise receivable pursuant to trust funds established for this purpose. additionally, if a landfill must be closed earlier than expected or its remaining airspace is reduced for any other reason, the accruals for capping, closure and post-closure could be required to be accelerated. if our capping, closure or post-closure costs exceed the amounts accrued, or if such accruals are required to be accelerated, this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. alternatives to landfill disposal could reduce our disposal volumes and cause our revenues and operating results to decline. most of the states in which we operate landfills require counties and municipalities to formulate comprehensive plans to reduce the volume of solid waste deposited in landfills through waste planning, composting, recycling or other programs. some state and local governments mandate waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of wastes, such as yard waste, at landfills. further, many of our customers voluntarily are diverting waste to alternatives to landfill disposal, such as recycling and composting, while also working to reduce the amount of waste they generate. many of the largest companies in the u.s. are setting zero-waste goals in which they strive to send no waste to landfills. although such actions help to protect our environment, they have reduced and will in the future reduce the volume of waste going to landfills and may affect the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal. accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to operate our landfills at their current volumes or charge current prices for landfill disposal services due to the decrease in demand for such services. if we cannot expand our service offerings and grow lines of business to service waste streams that do not go to landfills and to provide services for customers that wish to reduce waste entirely, this could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. further, even if we can develop such service offerings and lines of business, disposal alternatives nonetheless could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the possibility of landfill and transfer station site development projects, or expansion projects not being completed or certain other events could result in material charges to income. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we capitalize certain expenditures relating to development, expansion and other projects. if a facility or operation is permanently shut down or determined to be impaired, or a development, expansion or other project is not completed or is determined to be impaired, we will charge against earnings any unamortized capitalized expenditures relating to such facility or project that we are unable to recover through sale, transfer or otherwise. we also carry a significant amount of goodwill on our consolidate balance sheets, which we must assess for impairment annually, and more frequently in 15 table of contents the case of certain triggering events. we may incur charges against earnings in accordance with this policy, or other events may cause impairments. such charges could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. we are subject to costly environmental regulations and flow-control regulations that may affect our operating margins, restrict our operations and subject us to additional liability. complying with laws and regulations governing the collection, treatment, storage, transfer and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and materials, air quality and emissions of greenhouse gases, water quality and the remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances is costly. laws and regulations often require us to enhance or replace our equipment and to modify landfill operations or initiate final closure of a landfill. we cannot assure you that we will be able to implement price increases sufficient to offset the costs of complying with these laws and regulations. in addition, environmental regulatory changes could accelerate or increase expenditures for capping, closure and post-closure, and environmental and remediation activities at solid waste facilities and obligate us to spend sums in addition to those presently accrued for such purposes. our collection, transfer, and landfill operations are and will continue to be affected by state or local laws or regulations that restrict the transportation of solid waste across state, county or other jurisdictional lines or that direct the flow of waste to a specified facility or facilities. such laws and regulations could negatively affect our operations, resulting in declines in landfill volumes and increased costs of alternate disposal. in addition to the costs of complying with environmental regulations, we incur costs to defend against litigation brought by government agencies and private parties who allege we are in violation of our permits and applicable environmental laws and regulations, or who assert claims alleging nuisance, environmental damage, personal injury or property damage. as a result, we may be required to pay fines or implement corrective measures, or we may have our permits and licenses modified or revoked. a significant judgment against us, the loss of a significant permit or license, or the imposition of a significant fine could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we establish accruals for our estimates of the costs associated with our environmental obligations. we could underestimate such accruals and remediation costs could exceed amounts accrued. such shortfalls could result in significant unanticipated charges to income. regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could impose costs on our operations, the magnitude of which we cannot yet estimate. efforts to curtail the emission of greenhouse gases and to ameliorate the effects of climate change continue to progress. our landfill operations emit methane, identified as a greenhouse gas, and our vehicle fleet emits, among other things, carbon dioxide, which also is a greenhouse gas. conventional wisdom still suggests that passage of comprehensive, federal climate change legislation is highly unlikely. nonetheless, should comprehensive federal climate change legislation be enacted, we expect it to impose costs on our operations, the materiality of which we cannot predict. absent comprehensive federal legislation to control greenhouse gas emissions, epa is moving ahead administratively under its existing clean air act authority. epa is compelled to issue rules by the u.s. supreme court's april 2007 massachusetts v. epa ruling that greenhouse gases are pollutants for purposes of the clean air act and epa's december 2009 finding that continued emissions of greenhouse gases endanger human health and welfare. with respect to our light- and heavy-duty vehicle fleet, epa has since finalized regulations limiting greenhouse gas emissions and increasing fuel economy standards. epa and nhtsa have finalized such regulations applicable to heavy-duty vehicles through model-year 2018 and to light-duty vehicles through model-year 2025. we cannot assure you that federal efforts to curtail greenhouse gas emissions and to increase the fuel efficiency of light-duty and heavy duty vehicles will not have a material effect on our operations or on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. as it relates to stationary sources of greenhouse gases, in may 2010 epa finalized the prevention of significant deterioration and title v greenhouse gas tailoring rule (tailoring rule). the tailoring rule sets levels of greenhouse gas emissions at new or modified stationary emission sources that trigger permit and control obligations. recent efforts to challenge the tailoring rule before the u.s. court of the appeals for the district of columbia have failed. nonetheless, in july 2011 epa issued a rule deferring the application of the tailoring rule to biogenic carbon emissions from solid waste landfills for three years, which largely exempts landfills from the tailoring rule during this period. we cannot assure you, however, that the eventual application of the tailoring rule to our landfills will not have a material effect on our landfill operations or on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. we may have environmental liabilities that are not covered by our insurance. changes in insurance markets also may impact our financial results. 16 table of contents we may incur liabilities for the deterioration of the environment as a result of our operations. we maintain high deductibles for our environmental liability insurance coverage. if we were to incur substantial liability for environmental damage, our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover such liability. this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. also, due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we may experience future increases in self-insurance levels as a result of increased retention levels and increased premiums. as we assume more risk for self-insurance through higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in our self-insurance reserves and expense. despite our efforts, we may incur additional hazardous substances liability in excess of amounts presently known and accrued. we are a potentially responsible party at many sites under cercla, which provides for the remediation of contaminated facilities and imposes strict, joint and several liability for the cost of remediation on current owners and operators of a facility at which there has been a release or a threatened release of a hazardous substance. cercla liability also extends to parties who were site owners and operators at the time hazardous substances were disposed, and on persons who arrange for the disposal of such substances at the facility (i.e., generators of the waste and transporters who selected the disposal site). hundreds of substances are defined as hazardous under cercla and their presence, even in minute amounts, can result in substantial liability. notwithstanding our efforts to comply with applicable regulations and to avoid transporting and receiving hazardous substances, we may have additional liability under cercla, or similar state laws or rcra, in excess of our current reserves because such substances may be present in waste collected by us or disposed of in our landfills, or in waste collected, transported or disposed of in the past by companies we have acquired. actual costs for these liabilities could be significantly greater than amounts presently accrued for these purposes, which could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. we are and will continue to be involved in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of our business. many of these matters raise complicated factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties. the timing of the final resolutions to lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings is uncertain. further, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments and adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be unable to manage our growth effectively. our growth strategy places significant demands on our financial, operational and management resources. to continue our growth, we may need to add administrative and other personnel, and may need to make additional investments in operations and systems. we cannot assure you that we will be able to find and train qualified personnel, or do so on a timely basis, or to expand our operations and systems to the extent, and in the time, required. we may be unable to execute our acquisition growth strategy. our ability to execute our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to identify and acquire desirable acquisition candidates and on our ability to successfully integrate acquired operations into our business. the integration of our operations with those of acquired companies may present significant challenges to our management. in addition, competition for acquisition candidates may prevent us from acquiring certain acquisition candidates. thus, we cannot assure you that: desirable acquisition candidates exist or will be identified, we will be able to acquire any of the candidates identified, we will effectively integrate companies we acquire, or any acquisitions will be profitable or accretive to our earnings. if any of these factors force us to alter our growth strategy, our growth prospects could be adversely affected. businesses we acquire may have undisclosed liabilities. 17 table of contents our due diligence investigations of acquisition candidates may fail to discover certain undisclosed liabilities. if we acquire a company having undisclosed liabilities such as environmental, remediation or contractual liabilities, as a successor owner we may be responsible for such undisclosed liabilities. we try to minimize our exposure to such liabilities when we can by conducting due diligence, by obtaining indemnification from each seller of the acquired companies, by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase price as security for the indemnification and by acquiring only specified assets. however, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain indemnification or that any indemnification obtained will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any undisclosed liabilities arising from our acquisitions. our consolidated financial statements are based on estimates and assumptions that will differ from actual results. our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap and necessarily include amounts based on management's estimates. actual results will differ from these amounts. significant items requiring management to make subjective or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain include the recoverability of long-lived assets, the depletion and amortization of landfill development costs, accruals for final capping, closure and post-closure costs, valuation allowances for accounts receivable and deferred tax assets, liabilities for potential litigation, claims and assessments, and liabilities for environmental remediation, employee benefit and pension plans, deferred taxes, uncertain tax positions and self-insurance. we cannot assure you that the liabilities recorded for items such as these will be adequate to cover the costs we ultimately will face. the introduction of new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our results of operations. complying with new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our results of operations or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our results of operations in future periods. we may be subject to workforce influences, including work stoppages, which could increase our operating costs and disrupt our operations. as of december 31, 2012, approximately 26% of our workforce was represented by various local labor unions. if our unionized workers were to engage in strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and an increase in our operating costs, which could have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additional groups of employees may seek union representation in the future and, if successful, the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements could divert management attention and result in increased operating costs. if a greater percentage of our workforce becomes unionized, our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted due to the potential for increased operating costs. our obligation to fund multi-employer pension plans to which we contribute, or our withdrawal from such plans, may have an adverse impact on us. we contribute to 27 multi-employer pension plans under collective bargaining agreements (cbas) covering union-represented employees. approximately 20% of our total current employees participate in such multi-employer plans. we do not administer these plans and generally are not represented on the boards of trustees of these plans. the pension protection act enacted in 2006 (the ppa) requires under-funded pension plans to improve their funding ratios. based on the information available to us, we believe that some of the multi-employer plans to which we contribute are either critical or endangered as those terms are defined in the ppa. except as discussed in the following four paragraphs and note 11 to our consolidated financial statements, employee benefit plans, we cannot determine at this time the amount of additional funding, if any, we may be required to make to these plans and, therefore, have not recorded any related liabilities. however, plan assessments could have an adverse impact on our results of operations or cash flows for a given period. further, under current law, upon the termination of a multi-employer pension plan, or in the event of a withdrawal by us (which we consider from time to time) or a mass withdrawal of contributing employers (each, a withdrawal event), we would be required to make payments to the plan for our proportionate share of the plan's unfunded vested liabilities. we cannot assure you that there will not be a withdrawal event with respect to any of the multi-employer pension plans to which we contribute or that, in the event of such a withdrawal event, the amounts we would be required to contribute would not have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we have cbas with local bargaining units of the teamsters under which we have obligations to contribute to the central states, southeast and southwest areas pension fund (the fund). all of these cbas have been, are or will be under negotiation in the remainder of 2013. as part of our negotiations, we have proposed or intend to propose to withdraw from the fund. withdrawal is only one of the issues in these negotiations, and we do not know what the ultimate outcome of the negotiations in any locale will be. with respect to each cba, if we do withdraw, this will constitute a withdrawal event and will require us to make payments to the fund for a proportionate share of its unfunded vested liabilities. 18 table of contents during 2012, we had withdrawal events with respect to two of our facilities. based on information provided to us by the fund, our actuarial calculations and a number of other variable factors including our estimated number of 2013 contribution based units, we have estimated our liability to the fund associated with these two withdrawal events will be approximately $31 million, which was charged to earnings during the three months ended september 30, 2012. if we do have an additional withdrawal event or events with respect to one or more of the remaining bargaining units, the amount ultimately payable would depend upon a number of variable factors involving valuations and actuarial calculations. we do not presently know what the result of those calculations and valuations would be. however, we believe our additional liability upon a complete withdrawal from the fund would be between $113 million and $146 million if it were to occur in 2013, based on current estimates. in the future, a loss may become probable, at which time or times we will incur an expense that will reduce earnings. any such expense may be material to our results of operations in the period or periods incurred. for additional discussion and detail regarding multi-employer pension plans see, note 11, employee benefit plans, to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k. the costs of providing for pension benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in pension fund values and fluctuating actuarial assumptions, and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we sponsor a defined benefit pension plan that is funded with trustee assets invested in a diversified portfolio of debt and equity securities. our costs for providing such benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in the market value of plan assets. our pension expenses and related funding requirements are also subject to various actuarial calculations and assumptions, which may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, interest rates and other factors. a significant increase in our pension obligations and funding requirements could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects. our future success depends on the continued contributions of several key employees and officers. the loss of the services of key employees and officers, whether such loss is through resignation or other causes, or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our major market risk exposure of our financial instruments is changing interest rates in the united states and fluctuations in libor. we intend to manage interest rate risk through the use of a combination of fixed and floating rate debt. the carrying value of our variable rate debt approximates fair value because interest rates are variable and, accordingly, approximates current market rates for instruments with similar risk and maturities. the fair value of our debt is determined as of the balance sheet date and is subject to change. the table below provides information about certain of our market-sensitive financial instruments and constitutes a forward-looking statement. expected maturity date 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter total fair value as of december 31, 2012 fixed rate debt: amount outstanding (in millions) $ 5.1 $ 15.7 $ 5.3 $ 4.1 $ 4.4 $ 6,145.5 $ 6,180.1 $ 7,129.0 average interest rates 6.8 % 6.0 % 7.8 % 7.4 % 7.4 % 5.1 % 5.1 % variable rate debt: amount outstanding (in millions) $ 10.0 $ $ 4.8 $ 25.0 $ 5.2 $ 925.1 $ 970.1 $ 970.1 average interest rates 0.2 % % 0.2 % 1.3 % 0.4 % 0.5 % 0.5 % the fixed and variable rate debt amounts above exclude the remaining non-cash discounts, premiums and adjustments to fair value recorded in purchase accounting totaling $79.7 million . fuel price risk fuel costs represent a significant operating expense. when economically practical, we may enter into new or renew contracts, or engage in other strategies, to mitigate market risk. where appropriate, we have implemented a fuel recovery fee that is designed to recover our fuel costs. while we charge these fees to a majority of our customers, we are unable to charge such fees to all customers. consequently, an increase in fuel costs results in (1) an increase in our cost of operations, (2) a smaller increase in our revenue (from the fuel recovery fee) and (3) a decrease in our operating margin percentage. conversely, a decrease in fuel costs results in (1) a decrease in our cost of operations, (2) a smaller decrease in our revenue and (3) an increase in our operating margin percentage. at current consumption levels, a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel costs by approximately $24 million on an annual basis. offsetting these changes in fuel expense would be changes in our fuel recovery fee charged to our customers. at current participation rates, a twenty-cent change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel recovery fee by approximately $19 million. our operations also require the use of certain petrochemical-based products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of petrochemicals. an increase in the price of petrochemicals could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs. we also are susceptible to increases in indirect fuel recovery fees from our vendors. commodities prices we market recycled products such as cardboard and newspaper from our recycling centers. market demand for recyclable materials causes volatility in commodity prices. at current volumes and mix of materials, we believe a ten dollar per ton change in the price of recyclable materials will change annual revenue and operating income by approximately $29 million and $20 million, respectively, on an annual basis. revenue from sales of these products in 2012, 2011 and 2010 was approximately $349.0 million , $438.6 million and $337.9 million, respectively. 64 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors this form 10-k contains certain forward-looking information about us that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. words such as guidance, expect, will, may, anticipate, plan, estimate, project, intend, should, can, likely, could, outlook, believe and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. these statements include statements about our plans, strategies and prospects. forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. these statements are based upon our management's current beliefs and expectations and are subject to risk and uncertainties, including the risks set forth below in these risk factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the expectations will prove to be correct. accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this form 10-k. except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, we undertake no obligation to update or publish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this form 10-k or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. we have substantial indebtedness, which may limit our financial flexibility. as of december 31, 2013, we had approximately $7 billion in principal value of debt and capital leases outstanding. this amount of indebtedness and our debt service requirements may limit our financial flexibility to access additional capital and make capital expenditures and other investments in our business, to withstand economic downturns and interest rate increases, to plan for or react to changes in our business and our industry, and to comply with the financial and other covenants of our debt instruments. further, our ability to comply with these financial and other covenants may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions or other events that are beyond our control. if we do not comply with these covenants, we may be required to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, reducing or eliminating dividends or stock repurchases, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of our existing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. 13 table of contents general economic conditions can directly and adversely affect our operating results. our business is directly affected by changes in national and general economic factors and overall economic activity that are outside of our control, including consumer confidence and interest rates. a weak economy generally results in decreases in volumes of waste generated, which adversely affects our revenues. in addition, we have a relatively high fixed-cost structure, which is difficult to adjust quickly to match declining waste volume levels. consumer uncertainty and the loss of consumer confidence may decrease overall economic activity and thereby limit the amount of services we provide. additionally, the decline in waste volumes may result in increased competitive pricing pressure and increased customer turnover, resulting in lower revenue and increased operating costs. recent and continuing economic conditions have negatively impacted the portion of our collection business servicing commercial and industrial accounts in general, and the manufacturing and construction industries in particular. we cannot assure you that worsening economic conditions would not have a significant adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. further, recovery in the solid waste industry historically has lagged behind recovery in the general economy. accordingly, we cannot assure you that an improvement in general economic conditions will result in an immediate, or any, improvement in our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the weak u.s. economy may expose us to credit risk for amounts due from governmental agencies, large national accounts, industrial customers and others. the weak u.s. economy has reduced the amount of taxes collected by various governmental agencies. we provide services to a number of these agencies, including numerous municipalities. these governmental agencies may suffer financial difficulties resulting from a decrease in tax revenue and may ultimately be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us. in addition, the weak economy may cause other customers, including our large national accounts or industrial clients, to suffer financial difficulties and ultimately to be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us. this could negatively impact our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the waste industry is highly competitive and includes competitors that may have greater financial and operational resources, flexibility to reduce prices or other competitive advantages that could make it difficult for us to compete effectively. we principally compete with large national waste management companies, numerous municipalities, and numerous regional and local companies. competition for collection accounts is primarily based on price and the quality of services. competition for disposal business is primarily based on price, geographic location and quality of operations. one of our competitors may have greater financial and operational resources than we do. further, many counties and municipalities that operate their own waste collection and disposal facilities have the benefits of tax revenue or tax-exempt financing. our ability to obtain solid waste volume for our landfills also may be limited by the fact that some major collection operations also own or operate landfills to which they send their waste. in certain markets in which we do not own or operate a landfill, from time to time our collection operations may have difficulty competing effectively. if we were to lose market share or if we were to lower prices to address competitive issues, it could negatively impact our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. price increases may not be adequate to offset the impact of increased costs and may cause us to lose volume. we seek to secure price increases necessary to offset higher costs, to maintain or improve operating margins, and to obtain adequate returns on our substantial investments in assets such as our landfills. from time to time, our competitors reduce their prices in an effort to expand their market share. contractual, general economic or market-specific conditions also may limit our ability to raise prices. for example, many of our contracts have price adjustment provisions that are tied to an index such as the consumer price index. particularly in a weak u.s. economy such as the current one, our costs may increase in excess of the increase, if any, in the consumer price index. this may continue to be the case even when the u.s. economy recovers because a recovery in the solid waste industry historically has lagged behind a recovery in the general economy. as a result, we may be unable to offset increases in costs, improve our operating margins and obtain adequate investment returns through price increases. price increases also might cause us to lose volume to lower-cost competitors. 14 table of contents increases in the cost of fuel or petrochemicals would increase our operating expenses, and we cannot assure you that we would be able to recover such cost increases from our customers. we depend on fuel purchased in the open market to operate our collection and transfer trucks and other equipment used for collection, transfer and disposal. fuel prices are unpredictable and fluctuate significantly based on events beyond our control, including geopolitical developments, actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries and other oil and gas producers, supply and demand for oil and gas, war, terrorism and unrest in oil-producing countries, adverse weather and regional production patterns. due to contractual or market factors, we may not be able to offset such volatility through fuel recovery fees. our fuel costs were $516.7 million in 2013, or 6.1 % of revenue, compared to $530.1 million in 2012, or 6.5% of our revenue. to manage our exposure to volatility in fuel prices, we have entered into multiple swap agreements whereby we receive or make payments to counter-parties should the price of fuel vary from a specified amount. during 2013, approximately 19% of our fuel volume purchases were hedged with swap agreements. additionally, we are able to collect fuel recovery fees from some customers. for 2013, we were able to recover approximately 74% of our fuel costs with fuel recovery fees. at current consumption levels, a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel costs by approximately $25 million on an annual basis. offsetting these changes in fuel expense would be changes in our fuel recovery fee charged to our customers. at current participation rates, a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel recovery fee by approximately $20 million . accordingly, a substantial rise or drop in fuel costs could result in a material impact to our revenue and cost of operations. over the last several years, regulations have been adopted mandating changes in the composition of fuels for motor vehicles. the renewable fuel standards that the epa sets annually affect the type of fuel our motor vehicle fleet uses. pursuant to the energy independence and security act of 2007, the epa establishes annual renewable fuel volume requirements for four different categories of renewable fuels (renewable fuel, advanced biofuel, cellulosic biofuel, and biomass-based diesel). these volume requirements set standards for the proportion of refiners' or importers' total fuel volume that must contain renewable fuels (as designated by regulation). the total volume metrics for each year vary based upon a number of factors (e.g., the availability of such fuels), and it is difficult to predict the ultimate quantity that the epa will eventually mandate for 2014 and beyond. these regulations are one of many factors that may affect the cost of the fuel we use. our operations also require the use of products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of petrochemicals. an increase in the price of petrochemicals could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs. petrochemical prices, and hence our operating and capital costs, may be further affected by regulatory efforts to reduce greenhouse gases from the industries that produce such petrochemicals. we are also susceptible to increases in indirect fuel recovery fees from our vendors. fluctuations in prices for recycled commodities that we sell to customers may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we purchase or collect and process recyclable materials such as paper, cardboard, plastics, aluminum and other metals for sale to third parties. our results of operations may be affected by changing prices or market requirements for recyclable materials. the resale and purchase prices of, and market demand for, recyclable materials are volatile due to changes in economic conditions and numerous other factors beyond our control. these fluctuations may affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. to manage our exposure to fluctuations in prices for recycled commodities, we have entered into multiple hedging arrangements whereby we receive or make payments to counter-parties should the price of recycled commodities vary from a specified amount or range. during 2013, approximately 24% of our tonnage sold was hedged with such arrangements. at current volumes and mix of materials, we believe a $10 per ton change in the price of recyclable materials will change annual revenue and operating income by approximately $31 million and $19 million , respectively, on an annual basis. accordingly, a substantial rise or drop in recycled commodity prices could result in a material impact to our revenue and cost of operations. 15 table of contents adverse weather conditions, including those brought about by climate change, may limit our operations and increase the costs of collection and disposal. our collection and landfill operations could be adversely impacted by extended periods of inclement weather, or by increased severity of weather and climate extremes resulting from climate change, some of which we may already be experiencing. recent studies suggest that global warming is occurring faster than previously projected, with the epa projecting a 4 to 11 fahrenheit temperature increase in the united states by the end of the century. in addition to sea level rise, this temperature increase is expected to result in more severe droughts, floods, and other extreme weather events. any of these factors could increase the volume of waste collected under our existing contracts (without corresponding compensation), interfere with collection and landfill operations, delay the development of landfill capacity or reduce the volume of waste generated by our customers. in addition, adverse weather conditions may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect our operating results in the affected regions during those periods. we may be unable to maintain our credit ratings or execute our financial strategy. our ability to execute our financial strategy depends in part on our ability to maintain investment grade ratings on our debt. the credit rating process is contingent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our investment grade ratings in the future. if we were unable to do so, our interest expense would increase and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms may be adversely affected. our financial strategy also depends on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to reinvest in our existing business, fund internal growth, acquire other solid waste businesses, pay dividends, repurchase stock, and take other actions to enhance stockholder value. we cannot assure you that we will succeed in executing our broad-based pricing initiatives, that we will generate sufficient cash flow to execute our financial strategy, that we will be able to pay cash dividends at our present rate, or increase them, or that we will be able to continue our share repurchase program. the solid waste industry is a capital-intensive industry and our capital expenditures may exceed current expectations, which could require us to obtain additional funding for our operations or impair our ability to grow our business. our ability to remain competitive and to grow our business largely depends on our cash flow from operations and access to capital. if our capital efficiency programs cannot offset the impact of inflation and business growth, it may be necessary to increase the amount we spend. additionally, if we make acquisitions or further expand our operations, the amount we spend on capital, capping, closure, post-closure, environmental remediation and other items will increase. our cash needs also will increase if the expenditures for capping, closure, post-closure and remediation activities increase above our current estimates, which may occur over a long period due to changes in federal, state or local government requirements and other factors beyond our control. increases in expenditures would negatively impact our cash flows. we may be unable to obtain or maintain required permits or to expand existing permitted capacity of our landfills, which could decrease our revenue and increase our costs. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain the permits we require to operate because permits to operate new landfills and transfer stations, or to expand the permitted capacity of existing landfills, have become more difficult and expensive to obtain and maintain. permits often take years to obtain as a result of numerous hearings and compliance requirements with regard to zoning, environmental and other regulations. these permits are also often subject to resistance from citizen or other groups and other political pressures. local communities and citizen groups, adjacent landowners or governmental agencies may oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we may need, allege violations of the permits under which we currently operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. responding to these challenges has at times increased our costs and extended the time associated with establishing new landfills and transfer stations and expanding existing landfills. in addition, failure to receive regulatory and zoning approval may prohibit us from establishing new landfills or transfer stations or expanding existing landfills. our failure to obtain the required permits to operate our landfills and transfer stations could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, we may have to dispose collected waste at landfills operated by our competitors or haul the waste long distances at a higher cost to one of our other landfills, either of which could significantly increase our waste disposal costs. 16 table of contents if we do not appropriately estimate landfill capping, closure and post-closure costs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. a landfill must be closed and capped, and post-closure maintenance commenced, once the landfill's permitted capacity is reached and additional capacity is not authorized. we have significant financial obligations relating to capping, closure and post-closure costs at our existing owned or operated landfills, and will have material financial obligations with respect to any future owned or operated landfills. we establish accruals for the estimated costs associated with capping, closure and post-closure financial obligations. we could underestimate such costs, and our financial obligations for capping, closure or post-closure costs could exceed the amounts accrued or amounts otherwise receivable pursuant to trust funds established for this purpose. additionally, if a landfill must be closed earlier than expected or its remaining airspace is reduced for any other reason, the accruals for capping, closure and post-closure could be required to be accelerated. if our capping, closure or post-closure costs exceed the amounts accrued, or if such accruals are required to be accelerated, this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. alternatives to landfill disposal could reduce our disposal volumes and cause our revenues and operating results to decline. most of the states in which we operate landfills require counties and municipalities to formulate comprehensive plans to reduce the volume of solid waste deposited in landfills through waste planning, composting, recycling or other programs. some state and local governments mandate waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of wastes, such as yard waste, at landfills. further, many of our customers voluntarily are diverting waste to alternatives to landfill disposal, such as recycling and composting, while also working to reduce the amount of waste they generate. many of the largest companies in the u.s. are setting zero-waste goals in which they strive to send no waste to landfills. although such actions help to protect our environment, they have reduced, and will in the future reduce, the volume of waste going to landfills and may affect the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal. accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to operate our landfills at their current volumes or charge current prices for landfill disposal services due to possible decreases in demand for such services. if we cannot expand our service offerings and grow lines of business to service waste streams that do not go to landfills and to provide services for customers that wish to reduce waste entirely, this could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. further, even if we can develop such service offerings and lines of business, disposal alternatives nonetheless could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the possibility of landfill and transfer station site development projects, or expansion projects not being completed or certain other events could result in material charges to income. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we capitalize certain expenditures relating to development, expansion and other projects. if a facility or operation is permanently shut down or determined to be impaired, or a development, expansion or other project is not completed or is determined to be impaired, we will charge against earnings any unamortized capitalized expenditures relating to such facility or project that we are unable to recover through sale, transfer or otherwise. we also carry a significant amount of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheets, which we must assess for impairment annually, and more frequently in the case of certain triggering events. we may incur charges against earnings in accordance with this policy, or other events may cause impairments. such charges could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. we are subject to costly environmental regulations and flow-control regulations that may affect our operating margins, restrict our operations and subject us to additional liability. complying with laws and regulations governing the collection, treatment, storage, transfer and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and materials, air quality and emissions of greenhouse gases, water quality and the remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances is costly. laws and regulations often require us to enhance or replace our equipment and to modify landfill operations or initiate final closure of a landfill. we cannot assure you that we will be able to implement price increases sufficient to offset the costs of complying with these laws and regulations. in addition, environmental regulatory changes could accelerate or increase expenditures for capping, closure and post-closure, and environmental and remediation activities at solid waste facilities and obligate us to spend sums in addition to those presently accrued for such purposes. our collection, transfer, and landfill operations are and will continue to be affected by state or local laws or regulations that restrict the transportation of solid waste across state, county or other jurisdictional lines or that direct the flow of waste to a specified facility or facilities. such laws and regulations could negatively affect our operations, resulting in declines in landfill volumes and increased costs of alternate disposal. 17 table of contents in addition to the costs of complying with environmental regulations, we incur costs to defend against litigation brought by government agencies and private parties who allege we are in violation of our permits and applicable environmental laws and regulations, or who assert claims alleging nuisance, environmental damage, personal injury or property damage. as a result, we may be required to pay fines or implement corrective measures, or we may have our permits and licenses modified or revoked. a significant judgment against us, the loss of a significant permit or license, or the imposition of a significant fine could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we establish accruals for our estimates of the costs associated with our environmental obligations. we could underestimate such accruals and remediation costs could exceed amounts accrued. such shortfalls could result in significant unanticipated charges to income. regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could impose costs on our operations, the magnitude of which we cannot yet estimate. efforts to curtail the emission of greenhouse gases and to ameliorate the effects of climate change continue to progress. our landfill operations emit anthropogenic methane, identified as a greenhouse gas, and our vehicle fleet emits, among other things, carbon dioxide, which also is a greenhouse gas. conventional wisdom still suggests that passage of comprehensive, federal climate change legislation is highly unlikely. nonetheless, should comprehensive federal climate change legislation be enacted, we expect it to impose costs on our operations, the materiality of which we cannot predict. absent comprehensive federal legislation to control greenhouse gas emissions, the epa is moving ahead administratively under its existing clean air act authority. the epa is compelled to issue rules by the u.s. supreme court's april 2007 massachusetts v. epa ruling that greenhouse gases are pollutants for purposes of the clean air act and the epa's december 2009 finding that continued emissions of greenhouse gases endanger human health and welfare. with respect to our light- and heavy-duty vehicle fleet, the epa has since finalized regulations limiting greenhouse gas emissions and increasing fuel economy standards. the epa and the nhtsa have finalized such regulations applicable to heavy-duty vehicles through model-year 2018 and to light-duty vehicles through model-year 2025. we cannot assure you that federal efforts to curtail greenhouse gas emissions and to increase the fuel efficiency of light-duty and heavy-duty vehicles will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. as it relates to stationary sources of greenhouse gases, in may 2010 the epa finalized the prevention of significant deterioration and title v greenhouse gas tailoring rule (tailoring rule). the tailoring rule sets levels of greenhouse gas emissions at new or modified stationary emission sources that trigger permit and control obligations based upon such sources' total greenhouse gas emissions. recent efforts to challenge the tailoring rule before the u.s. court of the appeals for the district of columbia (the "dc circuit") have failed. most recently, a federal appellate court decision has called into question certain regulatory deferrals that had been established for biogenic carbon dioxide emissions, including those from landfills. the d.c. circuit struck down the epa's july 2011 rule deferring the application of the tailoring rule to biogenic carbon emissions. at this time, it is uncertain what action the epa will take with respect to regulating the biogenic carbon emissions from the management of municipal solid waste. we cannot assure you that the eventual application of the tailoring rule to our landfills will not have a material effect on our landfill operations or on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we may have environmental liabilities that are not covered by our insurance. changes in insurance markets also may impact our financial results. we may incur liabilities for the deterioration of the environment arising from our operations or properties. we maintain high deductibles for our environmental liability insurance coverage. if we were to incur substantial liability for environmental damage, our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover such liability. this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. also, due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we may experience future increases in self-insurance levels as a result of increased retention levels and increased premiums. as we assume more risk for self-insurance through higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in our self-insurance reserves and expense. 18 table of contents despite our efforts, we may incur additional hazardous substances liability in excess of amounts presently known and accrued. we are a potentially responsible party at many sites under cercla, which provides for the remediation of contaminated facilities and imposes strict, joint and several liability for the cost of remediation on current owners and operators of a facility at which there has been a release or a threatened release of a hazardous substance. cercla liability also extends to parties who were site owners and operators at the time hazardous substances were disposed, and on persons who arrange for the disposal of such substances at the facility (i.e., generators of the waste and transporters who selected the disposal site). hundreds of substances are defined as hazardous under cercla and their presence, even in minute amounts, can result in substantial liability. notwithstanding our efforts to comply with applicable regulations and to avoid transporting and receiving hazardous substances, we may have additional liability under cercla, or similar state laws or rcra, in excess of our current reserves because such substances may be present in waste collected by us or disposed of in our landfills, or in waste collected, transported or disposed of in the past by companies we have acquired. actual costs for these liabilities could be significantly greater than amounts presently accrued for these purposes, which could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. we are and will continue to be involved in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of our business. many of these matters raise complicated factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties. the timing of the final resolutions to lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings is uncertain. further, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments and adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be unable to manage our growth effectively. our growth strategy places significant demands on our financial, operational and management resources. to continue our growth, we may need to add administrative and other personnel, and may need to make additional investments in operations and systems. we cannot assure you that we will be able to find and train qualified personnel, or do so on a timely basis, or to expand our operations and systems to the extent, and in the time, required. we may be unable to execute our acquisition growth strategy. our ability to execute our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to identify and acquire desirable acquisition candidates and on our ability to successfully integrate acquired operations into our business. the integration of our operations with those of acquired companies may present significant challenges to our management. in addition, competition for acquisition candidates may prevent us from acquiring certain acquisition candidates. thus, we cannot assure you that: desirable acquisition candidates exist or will be identified; we will be able to acquire any of the candidates identified; we will effectively integrate companies we acquire; or any acquisitions will be profitable or accretive to our earnings. if any of these factors force us to alter our growth strategy, our growth prospects could be adversely affected. businesses we acquire may have undisclosed liabilities. our due diligence investigations of acquisition candidates may fail to discover certain undisclosed liabilities. if we acquire a company having undisclosed liabilities such as environmental, remediation or contractual liabilities, as a successor owner we may be responsible for such undisclosed liabilities. we try to minimize our exposure to such liabilities by conducting due diligence, by obtaining indemnification from each seller of the acquired companies, by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase price as security for the indemnification and by acquiring only specified assets. however, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain indemnification or that any indemnification obtained will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any undisclosed liabilities arising from our acquisitions. 19 table of contents our consolidated financial statements are based on estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap and necessarily include amounts based on management's estimates. actual results may differ from these amounts. significant items requiring management to make subjective or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain include the recoverability of long-lived assets, the depletion and amortization of landfill development costs, accruals for final capping, closure and post-closure costs, valuation allowances for accounts receivable and deferred tax assets, liabilities for potential litigation, claims and assessments, and liabilities for environmental remediation, multiemployer pension plans, employee benefit plans, deferred taxes, uncertain tax positions, self-insurance and our estimates of the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in any acquisition. we cannot assure you that the liabilities recorded for items such as these will be adequate to cover the costs we ultimately will face. the introduction of new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our reported results of operations. complying with new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our results of operations or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our results of operations or financial conditions in future periods. we may be subject to workforce influences, including work stoppages, which could increase our operating costs and disrupt our operations. as of december 31, 2013, approximately 26% of our workforce was represented by various local labor unions. if our unionized workers were to engage in strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and an increase in our operating costs, which could have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additional groups of employees may seek union representation in the future and, if successful, the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements could divert management's attention and result in increased operating costs. if a greater percentage of our workforce becomes unionized, our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted due to the potential for increased operating costs. our obligation to fund multiemployer pension plans to which we contribute, or our withdrawal from such plans, may have an adverse impact on us. we contribute to 26 multiemployer pension plans under collective bargaining agreements (cbas) covering union-represented employees. approximately 20% of our total current employees participate in such multiemployer plans. we do not administer these plans and generally are not represented on the boards of trustees of these plans. the pension protection act enacted in 2006 (the ppa) requires under-funded pension plans to improve their funding ratios. based on the information available to us, we believe that some of the multiemployer plans to which we contribute are either critical or endangered as those terms are defined in the ppa. except as discussed in note 11, employee benefit plans, to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k, we cannot determine at this time the amount of additional funding, if any, we may be required to make to these plans and, therefore, have not recorded any related liabilities. however, plan assessments could have an adverse impact on our results of operations or cash flows for a given period. further, under current law, upon the termination of a multiemployer pension plan, or in the event of a withdrawal by us (which we consider from time to time) or a mass withdrawal of contributing employers (each, a withdrawal event), we would be required to make payments to the plan for our proportionate share of the plan's unfunded vested liabilities. we cannot assure you that there will not be a withdrawal event with respect to any of the multiemployer pension plans to which we contribute or that, in the event of such a withdrawal event, the amounts we would be required to contribute would not have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for additional discussion and detail regarding multiemployer pension plans see, note 11, employee benefit plans, to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k. the costs of providing for pension benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in pension fund values and fluctuating actuarial assumptions, and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we sponsor a defined benefit pension plan that is funded with trustee assets invested in a diversified portfolio of debt and equity securities. our costs for providing such benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in the market value of plan assets. our pension expenses and related funding requirements are also subject to various actuarial calculations and assumptions, which may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, interest rates and other factors. a significant increase in our pension obligations and funding requirements could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 20 table of contents the loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects. our future success depends on the continued contributions of several key employees and officers. the loss of the services of key employees and officers, whether such loss is through resignation or other causes, or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects. a cybersecurity incident could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers. we use computers in substantially all aspects of our business operations. we also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our employees and our customers. such uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers' personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about the company and its business partners. we also rely on a payment card industry compliant third party to protect our customers' credit card information. while the company pursues its strategy to grow through acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, the company is also expanding and improving its information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. if we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventive measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability and competitive disadvantage. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 66 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our major market risk exposure of our financial instruments is changing interest rates in the united states and fluctuations in libor. we intend to manage interest rate risk through the use of a combination of fixed and floating rate debt. the carrying value of our variable rate debt approximates fair value because interest rates are variable and, accordingly, approximates current market rates for instruments with similar risk and maturities. the fair value of our debt is determined as of the balance sheet date and is subject to change. the table below provides information about certain of our market-sensitive financial instruments and constitutes a forward-looking statement. expected maturity date 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 thereafter total fair value as of december 31, 2013 fixed rate debt: amount outstanding (in millions) $ 15.7 $ 5.4 $ 4.2 $ 4.5 $ 705.0 $ 5,442.9 $ 6,177.7 $ 6,615.9 average interest rates 6.0 % 7.9 % 7.5 % 7.5 % 3.8 % 5.3 % 5.1 % variable rate debt: amount outstanding (in millions) $ $ 4.8 $ $ $ $ 917.4 $ 922.2 $ 922.2 average interest rates % 0.7 % % % % 0.6 % 0.6 % the fixed and variable rate debt amounts above exclude the remaining non-cash discounts, premiums and adjustments to fair value recorded in purchase accounting totaling $81.8 million . additionally, we entered into various interest rate swap agreements with the goal of reducing overall borrowing costs and rebalancing our debt portfolio's ratio of fixed to floating interest rates. these swap agreements, which were designated as fair value hedges, have a total notional value of $300.0 million as of december 31, 2013. our interest rate swap contracts have been authorized pursuant to our policies and procedures. we do not use financial instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives. fuel price risk fuel costs represent a significant operating expense. when economically practical, we may enter into new fuel hedges, renew contracts, or engage in other strategies to mitigate market risk. where appropriate, we have implemented a fuel recovery fee that is designed to recover our fuel costs. while we charge these fees to a majority of our customers, we are unable to charge such fees to all customers. consequently, an increase in fuel costs results in (1) an increase in our cost of operations, (2) a smaller increase in our revenue (from the fuel recovery fee) and (3) a decrease in our operating margin percentage. conversely, a decrease in fuel costs results in (1) a decrease in our cost of operations, (2) a smaller decrease in our revenue and (3) an increase in our operating margin percentage. at current consumption levels, we believe a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel costs by approximately $25 million per year. offsetting these changes in fuel expense would be changes in our fuel recovery fee charged to our customers. at current participation rates, a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel recovery fee by approximately $20 million per year. our operations also require the use of certain petrochemical-based products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of petrochemicals. an increase in the price of petrochemicals could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs. we also are susceptible to increases in indirect fuel recovery fees from our vendors. 66 table of contents commodities prices we market recycled products such as cardboard and newspaper from our recycling centers. market demand for recyclable materials causes volatility in commodity prices. at current volumes and mix of materials, we believe a $10 per ton change in the price of recyclable materials will change annual revenue and operating income by approximately $31 million and $19 million , respectively. revenue from sales of these products in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 was approximately $374.6 million , 349.0 million and 438.6 million , respectively. 67 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors this form 10-k contains certain forward-looking information about us that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. words such as guidance, expect, will, may, anticipate, plan, estimate, project, intend, should, can, likely, could, outlook, believe and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. these statements include statements about our plans, strategies and prospects. forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. these statements are based upon our management's current beliefs and expectations and are subject to risk and uncertainties, including the risks set forth below in these risk factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the expectations will prove to be correct. accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this form 10-k. except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, we undertake no obligation to update or publish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this form 10-k or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. 13 table of contents we have substantial indebtedness, which may limit our financial flexibility. as of december 31, 2014, we had approximately $7 billion in principal value of debt and capital leases outstanding. this amount of indebtedness and our debt service requirements may limit our financial flexibility to access additional capital and make capital expenditures and other investments in our business, to withstand economic downturns and interest rate increases, to plan for or react to changes in our business and our industry, and to comply with the financial and other covenants of our debt instruments. further, our ability to comply with these financial and other covenants may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions or other events that are beyond our control. if we do not comply with these covenants, we may be required to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, reducing or eliminating dividends or stock repurchases, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of our existing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. general economic conditions can directly and adversely affect our operating results. our business is directly affected by changes in national and general economic factors and overall economic activity that are outside of our control, including consumer confidence and interest rates. a weak economy generally results in decreases in volumes of waste generated, which adversely affects our revenues. in addition, we have a relatively high fixed-cost structure, which is difficult to adjust quickly to match declining waste volume levels. consumer uncertainty and the loss of consumer confidence may decrease overall economic activity and thereby limit the amount of services we provide. additionally, the decline in waste volumes may result in increased competitive pricing pressure and increased customer turnover, resulting in lower revenue and increased operating costs. we cannot assure you that worsening economic conditions would not have a significant adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. further, recovery in the solid waste industry historically has lagged behind recovery in the general economy. accordingly, we cannot assure you that an improvement in general economic conditions will result in an immediate, or any, improvement in our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. weakness in the u.s. economy may expose us to credit risk for amounts due from governmental agencies, large national accounts, industrial customers and others. weakness in the u.s. economy reduces the amount of taxes collected by various governmental agencies. we provide services to a number of these agencies, including numerous municipalities. these governmental agencies may suffer financial difficulties resulting from a decrease in tax revenue and may ultimately be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us. in addition, weakness in the economy may cause other customers, including our large national accounts or industrial clients, to suffer financial difficulties and ultimately to be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us. this could negatively impact our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the waste industry is highly competitive and includes competitors that may have greater financial and operational resources, flexibility to reduce prices or other competitive advantages that could make it difficult for us to compete effectively. we principally compete with large national waste management companies, numerous municipalities, and numerous regional and local companies. competition for collection accounts is primarily based on price and the quality of services. competition for disposal business is primarily based on price, geographic location and quality of operations. one of our competitors may have greater financial and operational resources than we do. further, many counties and municipalities that operate their own waste collection and disposal facilities have the benefits of tax revenue or tax-exempt financing. our ability to obtain solid waste volume for our landfills also may be limited by the fact that some major collection operations also own or operate landfills to which they send their waste. in certain markets in which we do not own or operate a landfill, from time to time our collection operations may have difficulty competing effectively. if we were to lose market share or if we were to lower prices to address competitive issues, it could negatively impact our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. price increases may not be adequate to offset the impact of increased costs and may cause us to lose volume. we seek to secure price increases necessary to offset higher costs, to maintain or improve operating margins, and to obtain adequate returns on our substantial investments in assets such as our landfills. from time to time, our competitors reduce their prices in an effort to expand their market share. contractual, general economic or market-specific conditions also may limit our ability to raise prices. for example, many of our contracts have price adjustment provisions that are tied to an index such as the consumer price index. particularly in a weak u.s. economy such as the current one, our costs may increase in excess of the increase, if any, in the consumer price index. this may continue to be the case even when the u.s. economy recovers because a recovery in the solid waste industry historically has lagged behind a recovery in the general economy. as a result, we may be unable to offset increases in costs, improve our operating margins and obtain adequate investment returns through price increases. price increases also might cause us to lose volume to lower-cost competitors. 14 table of contents increases in the cost of fuel or petrochemicals would increase our operating expenses, and we cannot assure you that we would be able to recover such cost increases from our customers. we depend on fuel purchased in the open market to operate our collection and transfer trucks and other equipment used for collection, transfer and disposal. fuel prices are unpredictable and fluctuate significantly based on events beyond our control, including geopolitical developments, actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries and other oil and gas producers, supply and demand for oil and gas, war, terrorism and unrest in oil-producing countries, adverse weather and regional production patterns. due to contractual or market factors, we may not be able to offset such volatility through fuel recovery fees. our fuel costs were $500.0 million in 2014, or 5.7 % of revenue, compared to $516.7 million in 2013, or 6.1% of our revenue. to manage our exposure to volatility in fuel prices, we have entered into multiple swap agreements whereby we receive or make payments to counter-parties should the price of fuel vary from a specified amount. during 2014, approximately 20% of our fuel volume purchases were hedged with swap agreements. additionally, we are able to collect fuel recovery fees from some customers. for 2014, we were able to recover approximately 78% of our fuel costs with fuel recovery fees. at current consumption levels, a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel costs by approximately $26 million on an annual basis. offsetting these changes in fuel expense would be changes in our fuel recovery fee charged to our customers. at current participation rates, we believe a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel recovery fee by approximately $25 million . accordingly, a substantial rise or drop in fuel costs could result in a material impact to our revenue and cost of operations. over the last several years, regulations have been adopted mandating changes in the composition of fuels for motor vehicles. the renewable fuel standards that the epa sets annually affect the type of fuel our motor vehicle fleet uses. pursuant to the energy independence and security act of 2007, the epa establishes annual renewable fuel volume requirements for four different categories of renewable fuels (renewable fuel, advanced biofuel, cellulosic biofuel, and biomass-based diesel). these volume requirements set standards for the proportion of refiners' or importers' total fuel volume that must contain renewable fuels (as designated by regulation). the total volume metrics for each year vary based upon a number of factors (e.g., the availability of such fuels), and it is difficult to predict the ultimate quantity that the epa will eventually mandate for 2015 and beyond. these regulations are one of many factors that may affect the cost of the fuel we use. our operations also require the use of products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of petrochemicals. an increase in the price of petrochemicals could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs. petrochemical prices, and hence our operating and capital costs, may be further affected by regulatory efforts to reduce greenhouse gases from the industries that produce such petrochemicals. we are also susceptible to increases in indirect fuel recovery fees from our vendors. fluctuations in prices for recycled commodities that we sell to customers may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we purchase or collect and process recyclable materials such as paper, cardboard, plastics, aluminum and other metals for sale to third parties. our results of operations may be affected by changing prices or market requirements for recyclable materials. the resale and purchase prices of, and market demand for, recyclable materials are volatile due to changes in economic conditions and numerous other factors beyond our control. these fluctuations may affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. to manage our exposure to fluctuations in prices for recycled commodities, we have entered into multiple hedging arrangements whereby we receive or make payments to counter-parties should the price of recycled commodities vary from a specified amount or range. during 2014, approximately 6% of our tonnage sold was hedged with such arrangements. at current volumes and mix of materials, we believe a $10 per ton change in the price of recycled commodities will change annual revenue and operating income by approximately $28 million and $16 million , respectively, on an annual basis. accordingly, a substantial rise or drop in recycled commodity prices could result in a material impact to our revenue and cost of operations. 15 table of contents adverse weather conditions, including those brought about by climate change, may limit our operations and increase the costs of collection and disposal. our collection and landfill operations could be adversely impacted by extended periods of inclement weather, or by increased severity of weather and climate extremes resulting from climate change, some of which we may already be experiencing. recent studies suggest that global warming is occurring faster than previously projected, with the epa projecting a 4 to 11 fahrenheit temperature increase in the united states by the end of the century. in addition to sea level rise, this temperature increase is expected to result in more severe droughts, floods, and other extreme weather events. any of these factors could increase the volume of waste collected under our existing contracts (without corresponding compensation), interfere with collection and landfill operations, delay the development of landfill capacity or reduce the volume of waste generated by our customers. in addition, adverse weather conditions may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect our operating results in the affected regions during those periods. we may be unable to maintain our credit ratings or execute our financial strategy. our ability to execute our financial strategy depends in part on our ability to maintain investment grade ratings on our debt. the credit rating process is contingent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our investment grade ratings in the future. if we were unable to do so, our interest expense would increase and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms may be adversely affected. our financial strategy also depends on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to reinvest in our existing business, fund internal growth, acquire other solid waste businesses, pay dividends, repurchase stock, and take other actions to enhance shareholder value. we cannot assure you that we will succeed in executing our broad-based pricing initiatives, that we will generate sufficient cash flow to execute our financial strategy, that we will be able to pay cash dividends at our present rate, or increase them, or that we will be able to continue our share repurchase program. the solid waste industry is a capital-intensive industry and our capital expenditures may exceed current expectations, which could require us to obtain additional funding for our operations or impair our ability to grow our business. our ability to remain competitive and to grow our business largely depends on our cash flow from operations and access to capital. if our capital efficiency programs cannot offset the impact of inflation and business growth, it may be necessary to increase the amount we spend. additionally, if we make acquisitions or further expand our operations, the amount we spend on capital, capping, closure, post-closure, environmental remediation and other items will increase. our cash needs also will increase if the expenditures for capping, closure, post-closure and remediation activities increase above our current estimates, which may occur over a long period due to changes in federal, state or local government requirements and other factors beyond our control. increases in expenditures would negatively impact our cash flows. we may be unable to obtain or maintain required permits or to expand existing permitted capacity of our landfills, which could decrease our revenue and increase our costs. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain the permits we require to operate because permits to operate new landfills and transfer stations, or to expand the permitted capacity of existing landfills, have become more difficult and expensive to obtain and maintain. permits often take years to obtain as a result of numerous hearings and compliance requirements with regard to zoning, environmental and other regulations. these permits are also often subject to resistance from citizen or other groups and other political pressures. local communities and citizen groups, adjacent landowners or governmental agencies may oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we may need, allege violations of the permits under which we currently operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. responding to these challenges has at times increased our costs and extended the time associated with establishing new landfills and transfer stations and expanding existing landfills. in addition, failure to receive regulatory and zoning approval may prohibit us from establishing new landfills or transfer stations or expanding existing landfills. our failure to obtain the required permits to operate our landfills and transfer stations could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, we may have to dispose collected waste at landfills operated by our competitors or haul the waste long distances at a higher cost to one of our other landfills, either of which could significantly increase our waste disposal costs. 16 table of contents if we do not appropriately estimate landfill capping, closure and post-closure costs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. a landfill must be closed and capped, and post-closure maintenance commenced, once the landfill's permitted capacity is reached and additional capacity is not authorized. we have significant financial obligations relating to capping, closure and post-closure costs at our existing owned or operated landfills, and will have material financial obligations with respect to any future owned or operated landfills. we establish accruals for the estimated costs associated with capping, closure and post-closure financial obligations. we could underestimate such costs, and our financial obligations for capping, closure or post-closure costs could exceed the amounts accrued or amounts otherwise receivable pursuant to trust funds established for this purpose. additionally, if a landfill must be closed earlier than expected or its remaining airspace is reduced for any other reason, the accruals for capping, closure and post-closure could be required to be accelerated. if our capping, closure or post-closure costs exceed the amounts accrued, or if such accruals are required to be accelerated, this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. alternatives to landfill disposal could reduce our disposal volumes and cause our revenues and operating results to decline. most of the states in which we operate landfills require counties and municipalities to formulate comprehensive plans to reduce the volume of solid waste deposited in landfills through waste planning, composting, recycling or other programs. some state and local governments mandate waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of wastes, such as yard waste, at landfills. further, many of our customers voluntarily are diverting waste to alternatives to landfill disposal, such as recycling and composting, while also working to reduce the amount of waste they generate. many of the largest companies in the u.s. are setting zero-waste goals in which they strive to send no waste to landfills. although such actions help to protect our environment, they have reduced, and will in the future reduce, the volume of waste going to landfills and may affect the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal. accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to operate our landfills at their current volumes or charge current prices for landfill disposal services due to possible decreases in demand for such services. if we cannot expand our service offerings and grow lines of business to service waste streams that do not go to landfills and to provide services for customers that wish to reduce waste entirely, this could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. further, even if we can develop such service offerings and lines of business, disposal alternatives nonetheless could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the possibility of landfill and transfer station site development projects, or expansion projects not being completed or certain other events could result in material charges to income. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we capitalize certain expenditures relating to development, expansion and other projects. if a facility or operation is permanently shut down or determined to be impaired, or a development, expansion or other project is not completed or is determined to be impaired, we will charge against earnings any unamortized capitalized expenditures relating to such facility or project that we are unable to recover through sale, transfer or otherwise. we also carry a significant amount of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheets, which we must assess for impairment annually, and more frequently in the case of certain triggering events. we may incur charges against earnings in accordance with this policy, or other events may cause impairments. such charges could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. we are subject to costly environmental regulations and flow-control regulations that may affect our operating margins, restrict our operations and subject us to additional liability. complying with laws and regulations governing the collection, treatment, storage, transfer and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and materials, air quality and emissions of greenhouse gases, water quality and the remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances is costly. laws and regulations often require us to enhance or replace our equipment and to modify landfill operations or initiate final closure of a landfill. we cannot assure you that we will be able to implement price increases sufficient to offset the costs of complying with these laws and regulations. in addition, environmental regulatory changes could accelerate or increase expenditures for capping, closure and post-closure, and environmental and remediation activities at solid waste facilities and obligate us to spend sums in addition to those presently accrued for such purposes. our collection, transfer, and landfill operations are and will continue to be affected by state or local laws or regulations that restrict the transportation of solid waste across state, county or other jurisdictional lines or that direct the flow of waste to a specified facility or facilities. such laws and regulations could negatively affect our operations, resulting in declines in landfill volumes and increased costs of alternate disposal. in addition to the costs of complying with environmental regulations, we incur costs to defend against litigation brought by government agencies and private parties who allege we are in violation of our permits and applicable environmental laws and 17 table of contents regulations, or who assert claims alleging nuisance, environmental damage, personal injury or property damage. as a result, we may be required to pay fines or implement corrective measures, or we may have our permits and licenses modified or revoked. a significant judgment against us, the loss of a significant permit or license, or the imposition of a significant fine could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we establish accruals for our estimates of the costs associated with our environmental obligations. we could underestimate such accruals and remediation costs could exceed amounts accrued. such shortfalls could result in significant unanticipated charges to income. regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could impose costs on our operations, the magnitude of which we cannot yet estimate. efforts to curtail the emission of greenhouse gases and to ameliorate the effects of climate change continue to progress. our landfill operations emit anthropogenic methane, identified as a greenhouse gas, and our vehicle fleet emits, among other things, carbon dioxide, which also is a greenhouse gas. conventional wisdom still suggests that passage of comprehensive, federal climate change legislation is highly unlikely. nonetheless, should comprehensive federal climate change legislation be enacted, we expect it to impose costs on our operations, the materiality of which we cannot predict. absent comprehensive federal legislation to control greenhouse gas emissions, the epa is moving ahead administratively under its existing clean air act authority. the epa is compelled to issue rules by the u.s. supreme court's april 2007 massachusetts v. epa ruling that greenhouse gases are pollutants for purposes of the clean air act and the epa's december 2009 finding that continued emissions of greenhouse gases endanger human health and welfare. with respect to our light- and heavy-duty vehicle fleet, the epa has since finalized regulations limiting greenhouse gas emissions and increasing fuel economy standards. the epa and the nhtsa have finalized such regulations applicable to heavy-duty vehicles through model-year 2018 and to light-duty vehicles through model-year 2025. we cannot assure you that federal efforts to curtail greenhouse gas emissions and to increase the fuel efficiency of light-duty and heavy-duty vehicles will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. as it relates to stationary sources of greenhouse gases, in may 2010 the epa finalized the prevention of significant deterioration and title v greenhouse gas tailoring rule (tailoring rule). the tailoring rule sets levels of greenhouse gas emissions at new or modified stationary emission sources that trigger permit and control obligations based upon such sources' total greenhouse gas emissions. recent efforts to challenge the tailoring rule before the u.s. court of the appeals for the district of columbia (the dc circuit) have failed. most recently, a federal appellate court decision has called into question certain regulatory deferrals that had been established for biogenic carbon dioxide emissions, including those from landfills. the d.c. circuit struck down the epa's july 2011 rule deferring the application of the tailoring rule to biogenic carbon emissions. subsequently, on july 17, 2014, the epa proposed updates to its regulations that would require large landfills that commenced construction, reconstruction, or modification on or after july 17, 2014 to capture additional landfill gas to reduce emissions of methane and certain non-methane gases, which are recognized as greenhouse gases. that same day, the epa also issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking seeking input on whether and how to update emissions limits for existing landfills to further reduce their emissions of methane and non-methane greenhouse gases. these regulations, if finally adopted, may require our landfills to deploy more stringent emission controls and monitoring systems, with resulting capital or operating costs. we cannot assure you that the application of these or other greenhouse gas regulations to our landfills will not have a material effect on our landfill operations or on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we may have environmental liabilities that are not covered by our insurance. changes in insurance markets also may impact our financial results. we may incur liabilities for the deterioration of the environment arising from our operations or properties. we maintain high deductibles for our environmental liability insurance coverage. if we were to incur substantial liability for environmental damage, our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover such liability. this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. also, due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we may experience future increases in insurance levels as a result of increased retention levels and increased premiums. as we assume more risk for insurance through higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in our insurance reserves and expense. 18 table of contents despite our efforts, we may incur additional liability under environmental laws in excess of amounts presently known and accrued. we are a potentially responsible party at many sites under cercla, which provides for the remediation of contaminated facilities and imposes strict, joint and several liability for the cost of remediation on current owners and operators of a facility at which there has been a release or a threatened release of a hazardous substance. cercla liability also extends to parties who were site owners and operators at the time hazardous substances were disposed, and on persons who arrange for the disposal of such substances at the facility (i.e., generators of the waste and transporters who selected the disposal site). hundreds of substances are defined as hazardous under cercla and their presence, even in minute amounts, can result in substantial liability. notwithstanding our efforts to comply with applicable environmental laws, we may have additional liability under environmental laws in excess of our current reserves because, among other things, hazardous substances may be present in waste collected by us or disposed of in our landfills (or in waste collected, transported or disposed of in the past by companies we have acquired), environmental laws may change, or there may be adverse environmental conditions that develop or were otherwise previously unknown to us. for example, during 2012 through 2014, we recorded an aggregate of $393.4 million in charges relating to environmental remediation at our closed landfill in bridgeton, missouri. actual costs for liabilities at bridgeton or other sites could be significantly greater than amounts we have accrued for these purposes. environmental liabilities in excess of our current reserves could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. we are and will continue to be involved in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of our business. many of these matters raise complicated factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties. the timing of the final resolutions to lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings is uncertain. further, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments and adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be unable to manage our growth effectively. our growth strategy places significant demands on our financial, operational and management resources. to continue our growth, we may need to add administrative and other personnel, and may need to make additional investments in operations and systems. we cannot assure you that we will be able to find and train qualified personnel, or do so on a timely basis, or to expand our operations and systems to the extent, and in the time, required. we may be unable to execute our acquisition growth strategy. our ability to execute our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to identify and acquire desirable acquisition candidates and on our ability to successfully integrate acquired operations into our business. the integration of our operations with those of acquired companies may present significant challenges to our management. in addition, competition for acquisition candidates may prevent us from acquiring certain acquisition candidates. thus, we cannot assure you that: desirable acquisition candidates exist or will be identified; we will be able to acquire any of the candidates identified; we will effectively integrate and manage companies we acquire; or any acquisitions will be profitable or accretive to our earnings. if any of these factors force us to alter our growth strategy, our growth prospects could be adversely affected. businesses we acquire may have undisclosed liabilities. our due diligence investigations of acquisition candidates may fail to discover certain undisclosed liabilities. if we acquire a company having undisclosed liabilities such as environmental, remediation or contractual liabilities, as a successor owner we may be responsible for such undisclosed liabilities. we try to minimize our exposure to such liabilities by conducting due diligence, by obtaining indemnification from each seller of the acquired companies, by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase price as security for the indemnification and by acquiring only specified assets. however, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain indemnification or that any indemnification obtained will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any undisclosed liabilities arising from our acquisitions. 19 table of contents our consolidated financial statements are based on estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap and necessarily include amounts based on management's estimates. actual results may differ from these amounts. significant items requiring management to make subjective or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain include the recoverability of long-lived assets, the depletion and amortization of landfill development costs, accruals for final capping, closure and post-closure costs, valuation allowances for accounts receivable and deferred tax assets, liabilities for potential litigation, claims and assessments, and liabilities for environmental remediation, multiemployer pension plans, employee benefit plans, deferred taxes, uncertain tax positions, insurance and our estimates of the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in any acquisition. we cannot assure you that the liabilities recorded for items such as these will be adequate to cover the costs we ultimately will face. the introduction of new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our reported results of operations. complying with new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our results of operations or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our results of operations or financial conditions in future periods. we may be subject to workforce influences, including work stoppages, which could increase our operating costs and disrupt our operations. as of december 31, 2014, approximately 27% of our workforce was represented by various local labor unions. if our unionized workers were to engage in strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and an increase in our operating costs, which could have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additional groups of employees may seek union representation in the future and, if successful, the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements could divert management's attention and result in increased operating costs. if a greater percentage of our workforce becomes unionized, our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted due to the potential for increased operating costs. our obligation to fund multiemployer pension plans to which we contribute, or our withdrawal from such plans, may have an adverse impact on us. we contribute to 27 multiemployer pension plans under collective bargaining agreements (cbas) covering union-represented employees. approximately 20% of our total current employees participate in such multiemployer plans. we do not administer these plans and generally are not represented on the boards of trustees of these plans. the pension protection act enacted in 2006 (the ppa) requires under-funded pension plans to improve their funding ratios. based on the information available to us, we believe that some of the multiemployer plans to which we contribute are either critical or endangered as those terms are defined in the ppa. except as discussed in note 11, employee benefit plans, to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k, we cannot determine at this time the amount of additional funding, if any, we may be required to make to these plans and, therefore, have not recorded any related liabilities. however, plan assessments could have an adverse impact on our results of operations or cash flows for a given period. further, under current law, upon the termination of a multiemployer pension plan, or in the event of a withdrawal by us (which we consider from time to time) or a mass withdrawal of contributing employers (each, a withdrawal event), we would be required to make payments to the plan for our proportionate share of the plan's unfunded vested liabilities. we cannot assure you that there will not be a withdrawal event with respect to any of the multiemployer pension plans to which we contribute or that, in the event of such a withdrawal event, the amounts we would be required to contribute would not have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for additional discussion and detail regarding multiemployer pension plans see, note 11, employee benefit plans, to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k. the costs of providing for pension benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in pension fund values and fluctuating actuarial assumptions, and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we sponsor a defined benefit pension plan that is funded with trustee assets invested in a diversified portfolio of debt and equity securities. our costs for providing such benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in the market value of plan assets. our pension expenses and related funding requirements are also subject to various actuarial calculations and assumptions, which may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, interest rates and other factors. a significant increase in our pension obligations and funding requirements could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 20 table of contents the loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects. our future success depends on the continued contributions of several key employees and officers. the loss of the services of key employees and officers, whether such loss is through resignation or other causes, or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects. a cyber security incident could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers. we use computers in substantially all aspects of our business operations. we also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our employees and our customers. such uses give rise to cyber security risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers' personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about the company and its business partners. we also rely on a payment card industry compliant third party to protect our customers' credit card information. while the company pursues its strategy to grow through acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, the company is also expanding and improving its information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cyber security risk. if we fail to assess and identify cyber security risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventive measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability and competitive disadvantage. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our major market risk exposure of our financial instruments is changing interest rates in the united states and fluctuations in libor. we intend to manage interest rate risk through the use of a combination of fixed and floating rate debt. the carrying value of our variable rate debt approximates fair value because interest rates are variable and, accordingly, approximates current market rates for instruments with similar risk and maturities. the fair value of our debt is determined as of the balance sheet date and is subject to change. the table below provides information about certain of our market-sensitive financial instruments and constitutes a forward-looking statement. expected maturity date 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 thereafter total fair value as of december 31, 2014 fixed rate debt: amount outstanding (in millions) $ 4.8 $ 4.5 $ 4.9 $ 705.5 $ 654.7 $ 4,777.4 $ 6,151.8 $ 7,005.8 average interest rates 7.4 % 7.4 % 7.4 % 3.8 % 5.5 % 5.2 % 5.1 % variable rate debt: amount outstanding (in millions) $ 4.7 $ $ $ $ 35.0 $ 932.4 $ 972.1 $ 972.1 average interest rates 0.4 % % % % 0.4 % 0.4 % 0.4 % the fixed and variable rate debt amounts above exclude the remaining non-cash discounts, premiums and adjustments to fair value recorded in purchase accounting totaling $62.7 million . additionally, during the second half of 2013, we entered into various interest rate swap agreements relative to our 4.750% fixed rate senior notes due in may 2023. the goal was to reduce overall borrowing costs and rebalance our debt portfolio's ratio of fixed to floating interest rates. these swap agreements, which were designated as fair value hedges, have a total notional value of $300.0 million as of december 31, 2014 . our interest rate swap contracts have been authorized pursuant to our policies and procedures. we do not use financial instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives. fuel price risk fuel costs represent a significant operating expense. when economically practical, we may enter into new fuel hedges, renew contracts, or engage in other strategies to mitigate market risk. where appropriate, we have implemented a fuel recovery fee that is designed to recover our fuel costs. while we charge these fees to a majority of our customers, we are unable to charge such fees to all customers. consequently, an increase in fuel costs results in (1) an increase in our cost of operations, (2) a smaller increase in our revenue (from the fuel recovery fee) and (3) a decrease in our operating margin percentage. conversely, a decrease in fuel costs results in (1) a decrease in our cost of operations, (2) a smaller decrease in our revenue and (3) an increase in our operating margin percentage. at current consumption levels, we believe a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel costs by approximately $26 million per year. offsetting these changes in fuel expense would be changes in our fuel recovery fee charged to our customers. at current participation rates, we believe a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel recovery fee by approximately $25 million per year. our operations also require the use of certain petrochemical-based products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of petrochemicals. an increase in the price of petrochemicals could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs. we also are susceptible to increases in indirect fuel recovery fees from our vendors. our fuel costs were $500.0 million in 2014, or 5.7 % of revenue, compared to $516.7 million in 2013, or 6.1% of revenue, and $530.1 million in 2012, or 6.5% of revenue. 63 table of contents commodities prices we market recycled products such as cardboard and newspaper from our recycling centers. market demand for recyclable materials causes volatility in commodity prices. at current volumes and mix of materials, we believe a $10 per ton change in the price of recyclable materials will change annual revenue and operating income by approximately $28 million and $16 million , respectively. revenue from sales of these products in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 was approximately $390.8 million , $374.6 million and $349.0 million , respectively. 64 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors this form 10-k contains certain forward-looking information about us that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. words such as guidance, expect, will, may, anticipate, plan, estimate, project, intend, should, can, likely, could, outlook, believe and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. these statements include statements about our plans, strategies and prospects. forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. these statements are based upon our management's current beliefs and expectations and are subject to risk and uncertainties, including the risks set forth below in these risk factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the expectations will prove to be correct. accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this form 10-k. except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, we undertake no obligation to update or publish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this form 10-k or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. general economic conditions can directly and adversely affect our operating results. our business is directly affected by changes in national and general economic factors and overall economic activity that are outside of our control, including consumer confidence and interest rates. a weak economy generally results in decreases in volumes of waste generated, which adversely affects our revenues. in addition, we have a relatively high fixed-cost structure, which is difficult to adjust quickly to match declining waste volume levels. consumer uncertainty and the loss of consumer confidence may decrease overall economic activity and thereby limit the amount of services we provide. additionally, the decline in waste volumes may result in increased competitive pricing pressure and increased customer turnover, resulting in lower revenue and increased operating costs. we cannot assure you that worsening economic conditions would not have a significant adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. further, recovery in the solid waste industry historically has lagged behind recovery in the general economy. accordingly, we cannot assure you that an improvement in general economic conditions will result in an immediate, or any, improvement in our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. weakness in the u.s. economy may expose us to credit risk for amounts due from governmental agencies, large national accounts, industrial customers and others. weakness in the u.s. economy reduces the amount of taxes collected by various governmental agencies. we provide services to a number of these agencies, including numerous municipalities. these governmental agencies may suffer financial difficulties resulting from a decrease in tax revenue and may ultimately be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us. in addition, weakness in the economy may cause other customers, including our large national accounts, or industrial or energy services clients, to suffer financial difficulties and ultimately to be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us. this could negatively impact our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the waste industry is highly competitive and includes competitors that may have greater financial and operational resources, flexibility to reduce prices or other competitive advantages that could make it difficult for us to compete effectively. we principally compete with large national waste management companies, numerous municipalities, and numerous regional and local companies. competition for collection accounts is primarily based on price and the quality of services. competition for disposal business is primarily based on price, geographic location and quality of operations. one of our competitors may have greater financial and operational resources than we do. further, many counties and municipalities that operate their own waste collection and disposal facilities have the benefits of tax revenue or tax-exempt financing. our ability to obtain solid waste volume for our landfills also may be limited by the fact that some major collection operations also own or operate landfills to which they send their waste. in certain markets in which we do not own or operate a landfill, from time to time our collection operations may have difficulty competing effectively. if we were to lose market share or if we were to lower prices to address competitive issues, it could negatively impact our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. price increases may not be adequate to offset the impact of increased costs and may cause us to lose volume. we seek to secure price increases necessary to offset higher costs, to maintain or improve operating margins, and to obtain adequate returns on our substantial investments in assets such as our landfills. from time to time, our competitors reduce their prices in an effort to expand their market share. contractual, general economic or market-specific conditions also may limit our ability to raise prices. for example, many of our contracts have price adjustment provisions that are tied to an index such as the 15 table of contents consumer price index. particularly in a weak u.s. economy such as the current one, our costs may increase in excess of the increase, if any, in the consumer price index. this may continue to be the case even when the u.s. economy recovers because a recovery in the solid waste industry historically has lagged behind a recovery in the general economy. as a result, we may be unable to offset increases in costs, improve our operating margins and obtain adequate investment returns through price increases. price increases also might cause us to lose volume to lower-cost competitors. increases in the cost of fuel or petrochemicals would increase our operating expenses, and we cannot assure you that we would be able to recover such cost increases from our customers. we depend on fuel purchased in the open market to operate our collection and transfer trucks and other equipment used for collection, transfer and disposal. fuel prices are unpredictable and fluctuate significantly based on events beyond our control, including geopolitical developments, actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries and other oil and gas producers, supply and demand for oil and gas, war, terrorism and unrest in oil-producing countries, adverse weather and regional production patterns. due to contractual or market factors, we may not be able to offset such volatility through fuel recovery fees. our fuel costs were $362.4 million in 2015 , or 4.0 % of revenue, compared to $500.0 million in 2014 , or 5.7% of revenue. to manage our exposure to volatility in fuel prices, we have entered into multiple swap agreements whereby we receive or make payments to counter-parties should the price of fuel vary from a specified amount. during 2015 , approximately 20% of our fuel volume purchases were hedged with swap agreements. additionally, we are able to collect fuel recovery fees from some customers. in general, we recover approximately 80% of our fuel costs with fuel recovery fees. at current consumption levels, a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel costs by approximately $22 million on an annual basis. offsetting these changes in fuel expense would be changes in our fuel recovery fee charged to our customers. at current participation rates, we believe a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel recovery fee by approximately $22 million . accordingly, a substantial rise or drop in fuel costs could result in a material impact to our revenue and cost of operations. over the last several years, regulations have been adopted mandating changes in the composition of fuels for motor vehicles. the renewable fuel standards that the epa sets annually affect the type of fuel our motor vehicle fleet uses. pursuant to the energy independence and security act of 2007, the epa establishes annual renewable fuel volume requirements for four different categories of renewable fuels (renewable fuel, advanced biofuel, cellulosic biofuel, and biomass-based diesel). these volume requirements set standards for the proportion of refiners' or importers' total fuel volume that must contain renewable fuels (as designated by regulation). the total volume metrics for each year vary based upon a number of factors (e.g., the availability of such fuels), and it is difficult to predict the ultimate quantity that the epa will eventually mandate for 2016 and beyond. these regulations are one of many factors that may affect the cost of the fuel we use. our operations also require the use of products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of petrochemicals. an increase in the price of petrochemicals could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs. petrochemical prices, and hence our operating and capital costs, may be further affected by regulatory efforts to reduce greenhouse gases from the industries that produce such petrochemicals. we are also susceptible to increases in indirect fuel recovery fees from our vendors. fluctuations in prices for recycled commodities that we sell to customers may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we purchase or collect and process recyclable materials such as paper, cardboard, plastics, aluminum and other metals for sale to third parties. our results of operations may be affected by changing prices or market requirements for recyclable materials. the resale and purchase prices of, and market demand for, recyclable materials are volatile due to changes in economic conditions and numerous other factors beyond our control. these fluctuations may affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. approximately 70% of our recycling center volume relates to occ, onp and other mixed paper. historically, to manage our exposure to fluctuations in prices for recycled commodities, we have entered into multiple hedging arrangements whereby we receive or make payments to counter-parties should the price of recycled commodities vary from a specified amount or range. we currently have no hedges outstanding. at current volumes and mix of materials, we believe a $10 per ton change in the price of recycled commodities will change annual revenue and operating income by approximately $27 million and $18 million , respectively, on an annual basis. accordingly, a substantial rise or drop in recycled commodity prices could result in a material impact to our revenue and cost of operations. 16 table of contents adverse weather conditions, including those brought about by climate change, may limit our operations and increase the costs of collection and disposal. our collection and landfill operations could be adversely impacted by extended periods of inclement weather, or by increased severity of weather and climate extremes resulting from climate change, some of which we may already be experiencing. recent studies suggest that global warming is occurring faster than previously projected, with the epa projecting a 3 to 12 fahrenheit temperature increase in the united states by the end of the century. in addition to sea level rise, this temperature increase is expected to result in more severe droughts, floods, and other extreme weather events. any of these factors could increase the volume of waste collected under our existing contracts (without corresponding compensation), interfere with collection and landfill operations, delay the development of landfill capacity or reduce the volume of waste generated by our customers. in addition, adverse weather conditions may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect our operating results in the affected regions during those periods. the solid waste industry is a capital-intensive industry and our capital expenditures may exceed current expectations, which could require us to obtain additional funding for our operations or impair our ability to grow our business. our ability to remain competitive and to grow our business largely depends on our cash flow from operations and access to capital. if our capital efficiency programs cannot offset the impact of inflation and business growth, it may be necessary to increase the amount we spend. additionally, if we make acquisitions or further expand our operations, the amount we spend on capital, capping, closure, post-closure, environmental remediation and other items will increase. our cash needs also will increase if the expenditures for capping, closure, post-closure and remediation activities increase above our current estimates, which may occur over a long period due to changes in federal, state or local government requirements and other factors beyond our control. increases in expenditures would negatively impact our cash flows. we may be unable to obtain or maintain required permits or to expand existing permitted capacity of our landfills, which could decrease our revenue and increase our costs. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain the permits we require to operate because permits to operate new landfills and transfer stations, or to expand the permitted capacity of existing landfills, have become more difficult and expensive to obtain and maintain. permits often take years to obtain as a result of numerous hearings and compliance requirements with regard to zoning, environmental and other regulations. these permits are also often subject to resistance from citizen or other groups and other political pressures. local communities and citizen groups, adjacent landowners or governmental agencies may oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we may need, allege violations of the permits under which we currently operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. responding to these challenges has at times increased our costs and extended the time associated with establishing new landfills and transfer stations and expanding existing landfills. in addition, failure to receive regulatory and zoning approval may prohibit us from establishing new landfills or transfer stations or expanding existing landfills. our failure to obtain the required permits to operate our landfills and transfer stations could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, we may have to dispose collected waste at landfills operated by our competitors or haul the waste long distances at a higher cost to one of our other landfills, either of which could significantly increase our waste disposal costs. if we do not appropriately estimate landfill capping, closure, post-closure and remediation costs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. a landfill must be closed and capped, and post-closure maintenance commenced, once the landfill's permitted capacity is reached and additional capacity is not authorized. further, we undertake remediation activities at some of our solid waste facilities. we have significant financial obligations relating to capping, closure, post-closure and remediation costs at our existing owned or operated landfills, and will have material financial obligations with respect to any future owned or operated landfills. we establish accruals for the estimated costs associated with capping, closure, post-closure and remediation obligations. we could underestimate such costs, and our financial obligations for capping, closure, post-closure or remediation costs could exceed the amounts accrued or amounts otherwise receivable pursuant to trust funds established for this purpose. additionally, if a landfill must be closed earlier than expected or its remaining airspace is reduced for any other reason, the accruals for capping, closure, post-closure and remediation could be required to be accelerated. if our capping, closure, post-closure or remediation costs exceed the amounts accrued, or if such accruals are required to be accelerated, this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. alternatives to landfill disposal could reduce our disposal volumes and cause our revenues and operating results to decline. most of the states in which we operate landfills require counties and municipalities to formulate comprehensive plans to reduce the volume of solid waste deposited in landfills through waste planning, composting, recycling or other programs. some state 17 table of contents and local governments mandate waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of wastes, such as yard waste, at landfills. further, many of our customers voluntarily are diverting waste to alternatives to landfill disposal, such as recycling and composting, while also working to reduce the amount of waste they generate. many of the largest companies in the u.s. are setting zero-waste goals in which they strive to send no waste to landfills. although such actions help to protect our environment, they have reduced, and will in the future reduce, the volume of waste going to landfills and may affect the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal. accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to operate our landfills at their current volumes or charge current prices for landfill disposal services due to possible decreases in demand for such services. if we cannot expand our service offerings and grow lines of business to service waste streams that do not go to landfills and to provide services for customers that wish to reduce waste entirely, this could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. further, even if we can develop such service offerings and lines of business, disposal alternatives nonetheless could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the possibility of landfill and transfer station site development projects, or expansion projects not being completed or certain other events could result in material charges to income. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we capitalize certain expenditures relating to development, expansion and other projects. if a facility or operation is permanently shut down or determined to be impaired, or a development, expansion or other project is not completed or is determined to be impaired, we will charge against earnings any unamortized capitalized expenditures relating to such facility or project that we are unable to recover through sale, transfer or otherwise. we also carry a significant amount of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheets, which we must assess for impairment annually, and more frequently in the case of certain triggering events. we may incur charges against earnings in accordance with this policy, or other events may cause impairments. such charges could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. we are subject to costly environmental regulations and flow-control regulations that may affect our operating margins, restrict our operations and subject us to additional liability. complying with laws and regulations governing the collection, treatment, storage, transfer and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and materials, air quality and emissions of greenhouse gases, water quality and the remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances is costly. laws and regulations often require us to enhance or replace our equipment and to modify landfill operations or initiate final closure of a landfill. we cannot assure you that we will be able to implement price increases sufficient to offset the costs of complying with these laws and regulations. in addition, environmental regulatory changes could accelerate or increase expenditures for capping, closure, post-closure and environmental and remediation activities at solid waste facilities and obligate us to spend sums in addition to those presently accrued for such purposes. our collection, transfer, and landfill operations are and will continue to be affected by state or local laws or regulations that restrict the transportation of solid waste across state, county or other jurisdictional lines or that direct the flow of waste to a specified facility or facilities. such laws and regulations could negatively affect our operations, resulting in declines in landfill volumes and increased costs of alternate disposal. regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could impose costs on our operations, the magnitude of which we cannot yet estimate. efforts to curtail the emission of greenhouse gases and to ameliorate the effects of climate change continue to progress. our landfill operations emit anthropogenic methane, identified as a greenhouse gas, and our vehicle fleet emits, among other things, carbon dioxide, which also is a greenhouse gas. conventional wisdom still suggests that passage of comprehensive, federal climate change legislation is highly unlikely. nonetheless, should comprehensive federal climate change legislation be enacted, we expect it to impose costs on our operations, the materiality of which we cannot predict. absent comprehensive federal legislation to control greenhouse gas emissions, the epa is moving ahead administratively under its existing clean air act authority. the epa is compelled to issue rules by the u.s. supreme court's april 2007 massachusetts v. epa ruling that greenhouse gases are pollutants for purposes of the clean air act and the epa's december 2009 finding that continued emissions of greenhouse gases endanger human health and welfare. with respect to our light- and heavy-duty vehicle fleet, the epa has since finalized regulations limiting greenhouse gas emissions and increasing fuel economy standards. the epa and the nhtsa have finalized such regulations applicable to heavy-duty vehicles through model-year 2018 and to light-duty vehicles through model-year 2025. on june 19, 2015, epa and nhtsa proposed additional regulations that would impose more stringent standards for heavy-duty vehicles through model-year 2027. we cannot assure you that federal efforts to curtail greenhouse gas emissions and to increase the fuel efficiency of light-duty and heavy-duty vehicles will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 18 table of contents with regard to greenhouse gas emissions from our landfills, on august 14, 2015, the epa issued proposed amendments to its regulations that would require large landfills that commenced construction, reconstruction or modification on or after july 17, 2014 to capture additional landfill gas to reduce emissions of methane and certain non-methane gases, which are recognized as greenhouse gases. in a separate action commenced that same day, the epa proposed updates to its 1996 emission guidelines to reduce emissions of landfill gas from existing active landfills. both actions are part of the obama administration's climate action plan - strategy to reduce methane emissions. these regulations, if finally adopted, may require our landfills to deploy more stringent emission controls and monitoring systems, with resulting capital or operating costs. we cannot assure you that the application of these or other greenhouse gas regulations to our landfills will not have a material effect on our landfill operations or on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we may have environmental liabilities that are not covered by our insurance. changes in insurance markets also may impact our financial results. we may incur environmental liabilities arising from our operations or properties. we maintain high deductibles for our environmental liability insurance coverage. if we were to incur substantial liability for environmental damage, our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover such liability. this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. also, due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we have experienced, and may experience in the future, increased insurance retention levels and increased premiums or unavailability of insurance. as we assume more risk for insurance through higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in our insurance reserves and expense. despite our efforts, we may incur additional liability under environmental laws in excess of amounts presently known and accrued. we are a potentially responsible party at many sites under cercla, which provides for the remediation of contaminated facilities and imposes strict, joint and several liability for the cost of remediation on current owners and operators of a facility at which there has been a release or a threatened release of a hazardous substance. cercla liability also extends to parties who were site owners and operators at the time hazardous substances were disposed, and on persons who arrange for the disposal of such substances at the facility (i.e., generators of the waste and transporters who selected the disposal site). hundreds of substances are defined as hazardous under cercla and their presence, even in minute amounts, can result in substantial liability. notwithstanding our efforts to comply with applicable environmental laws, we may have additional liability under environmental laws in excess of our current reserves because, among other things, hazardous substances may be present in waste collected by us or disposed of in our landfills (or in waste collected, transported or disposed of in the past by companies we have acquired), environmental laws may change, or there may be adverse environmental conditions that develop or were otherwise previously unknown to us. for example, during 2012 through 2014, we recorded an aggregate of approximately $400 million in charges relating to environmental remediation at our closed landfill in bridgeton, missouri. actual costs for liabilities at bridgeton or other sites could be significantly greater than amounts we have accrued for these purposes. environmental liabilities in excess of our current reserves could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. we have substantial indebtedness, which may limit our financial flexibility. as of december 31, 2015 , we had approximately $7.6 billion in principal value of debt and capital leases outstanding. this amount of indebtedness and our debt service requirements may limit our financial flexibility to access additional capital and make capital expenditures and other investments in our business, to withstand economic downturns and interest rate increases, to plan for or react to changes in our business and our industry, and to comply with the financial and other covenants of our debt instruments. further, our ability to comply with these financial and other covenants may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions or other events that are beyond our control. if we do not comply with these covenants, we may be required to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, reducing or eliminating dividends or stock repurchases, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of our existing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. we may be unable to maintain our credit ratings or execute our financial strategy. our ability to execute our financial strategy depends in part on our ability to maintain investment grade ratings on our debt. the credit rating process is contingent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our investment grade ratings in the future. if we were unable to do so, our interest expense would increase and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms may be adversely affected. 19 table of contents our financial strategy also depends on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to reinvest in our existing business, fund internal growth, acquire other solid waste businesses, pay dividends, repurchase stock, and take other actions to enhance shareholder value. we cannot assure you that we will succeed in executing our broad-based pricing initiatives, that we will generate sufficient cash flow to execute our financial strategy, that we will be able to pay cash dividends at our present rate, or increase them, or that we will be able to continue our share repurchase program. currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. we are and will continue to be involved in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of our business. many of these matters raise complicated factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties. the timing of the final resolutions to lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings is uncertain. further, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments and adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for example, we incur costs to defend against litigation brought by government agencies and private parties who allege we are in violation of our permits and applicable environmental laws and regulations, or who assert claims alleging nuisance, environmental damage, personal injury or property damage. as a result, we may be required to pay fines or judgments or implement corrective measures, or we may have our permits and licenses modified or revoked. a significant judgment against us, the loss of a significant permit or license, or the imposition of a significant fine could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we establish accruals for our estimates of the costs associated with our litigation matters obligations. we could underestimate such accruals. such shortfalls could result in significant unanticipated charges to income. we may be unable to manage our growth effectively. our growth strategy places significant demands on our financial, operational and management resources. to continue our growth, we may need to add administrative and other personnel, and may need to make additional investments in operations and systems. we cannot assure you that we will be able to find and train qualified personnel, or do so on a timely basis, or to expand our operations and systems to the extent, and in the time, required. we may be unable to execute our acquisition growth strategy. our ability to execute our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to identify and acquire desirable acquisition candidates and on our ability to successfully integrate acquired operations into our business. the integration of our operations with those of acquired companies may present significant challenges to our management. in addition, competition for acquisition candidates may prevent us from acquiring certain acquisition candidates. thus, we cannot assure you that: desirable acquisition candidates exist or will be identified; we will be able to acquire any of the candidates identified; we will effectively integrate and manage companies we acquire; or any acquisitions will be profitable or accretive to our earnings. if any of these factors force us to alter our growth strategy, our growth prospects could be adversely affected. businesses we acquire may have undisclosed liabilities. our due diligence investigations of acquisition candidates may fail to discover certain undisclosed liabilities. if we acquire a company having undisclosed liabilities such as environmental, remediation or contractual liabilities, as a successor owner we may be responsible for such undisclosed liabilities. we try to minimize our exposure to such liabilities by conducting due diligence, by obtaining indemnification from each seller of the acquired companies, by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase price as security for the indemnification and by acquiring only specified assets. however, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain indemnification or that any indemnification obtained will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any undisclosed liabilities arising from our acquisitions. our consolidated financial statements are based on estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap and necessarily include amounts based on management's estimates. actual results may differ from these amounts. significant items requiring management to make subjective or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain include the recoverability of long-lived assets, the depletion and amortization of landfill development costs, accruals for final capping, closure and post-closure costs, 20 table of contents valuation allowances for accounts receivable and deferred tax assets, liabilities for potential litigation, claims and assessments, and liabilities for environmental remediation, multiemployer pension plans, employee benefit plans, deferred taxes, uncertain tax positions, insurance and our estimates of the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in any acquisition. we cannot assure you that the liabilities recorded for items such as these will be adequate to cover the costs we ultimately will face. the introduction of new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our reported results of operations. complying with new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our results of operations or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our results of operations or financial conditions in future periods. we may be subject to workforce influences, including work stoppages, which could increase our operating costs and disrupt our operations. as of december 31, 2015 , approximately 26% of our workforce was represented by various local labor unions. if our unionized workers were to engage in strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and an increase in our operating costs, which could have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additional groups of employees may seek union representation in the future and, if successful, the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements could divert management's attention and result in increased operating costs. if a greater percentage of our workforce becomes unionized, our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted due to the potential for increased operating costs. our obligation to fund multiemployer pension plans to which we contribute, or our withdrawal from such plans, may have an adverse impact on us. we contribute to 27 multiemployer pension plans under collective bargaining agreements (cbas) covering union-represented employees. approximately 21% of our total current employees participate in such multiemployer plans. we do not administer these plans and generally are not represented on the boards of trustees of these plans. the pension protection act enacted in 2006 (the ppa) requires under-funded pension plans to improve their funding ratios. based on the information available to us, we believe that some of the multiemployer plans to which we contribute are either critical or endangered as those terms are defined in the ppa. we cannot presently determine the amount of additional funding, if any, we may be required to make to these plans. however, plan assessments could have an adverse impact on our results of operations or cash flows for a given period. further, under current law, upon the termination of a multiemployer pension plan, or in the event of a withdrawal by us (which we consider from time to time) or a mass withdrawal of contributing employers (each, a withdrawal event), we would be required to make payments to the plan for our proportionate share of the plan's unfunded vested liabilities. we cannot assure you that there will not be a withdrawal event with respect to any of the multiemployer pension plans to which we contribute or that, in the event of such a withdrawal event, the amounts we would be required to contribute would not have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for additional discussion and detail regarding multiemployer pension plans see, note 11, employee benefit plans, to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k. the costs of providing for pension benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in pension fund values and fluctuating actuarial assumptions, and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we sponsor a defined benefit pension plan that is funded with trustee assets invested in a diversified portfolio of debt and equity securities. our costs for providing such benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in the market value of plan assets. our pension expenses and related funding requirements are also subject to various actuarial calculations and assumptions, which may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, interest rates and other factors. a significant increase in our pension obligations and funding requirements could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects. our future success depends on the continued contributions of several key employees and officers. the loss of the services of key employees and officers, whether such loss is through resignation or other causes, or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects. 21 table of contents a cyber security incident could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers. we use computers in substantially all aspects of our business operations. we also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our employees and our customers. such uses give rise to cyber security risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers' personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about the company and its business partners. we also rely on a payment card industry compliant third party to protect our customers' credit card information. while the company pursues its strategy to grow through acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, the company is also expanding and improving its information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cyber security risk. if we fail to assess and identify cyber security risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventive measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability and competitive disadvantage. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our major market risk exposure of our financial instruments is changing interest rates in the united states and fluctuations in libor. we intend to manage interest rate risk through the use of a combination of fixed and floating rate debt. the carrying value of our variable rate debt approximates fair value because interest rates are variable and, accordingly, approximates current market rates for instruments with similar risk and maturities. the fair value of our debt is determined as of the balance sheet date and is subject to change. the table below provides information about certain of our market-sensitive financial instruments and constitutes a forward-looking statement. 61 table of contents expected maturity date 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 thereafter total fair value as of december 31, 2015 fixed rate debt: amount outstanding (in millions) $ 4.7 $ 5.0 $ 705.6 $ 654.8 $ 855.0 $ 4,424.3 $ 6,649.4 $ 7,209.4 average interest rates 7.3 % 7.3 % 3.8 % 5.5 % 5.0 % 5.0 % 4.9 % variable rate debt: amount outstanding (in millions) $ $ $ $ 35.0 $ 71.2 $ 880.2 $ 986.4 $ 986.4 average interest rates % % % 0.6 % 0.5 % 0.6 % 0.6 % the fixed and variable rate debt amounts above exclude the remaining non-cash discounts, premiums and adjustments to fair value recorded in purchase accounting totaling $61.6 million . additionally, during the second half of 2013, we entered into various interest rate swap agreements relative to our 4.750% fixed rate senior notes due in may 2023. the goal was to reduce overall borrowing costs and rebalance our debt portfolio's ratio of fixed to floating interest rates. these swap agreements, which were designated as fair value hedges, have a total notional value of $300.0 million as of december 31, 2015 . our interest rate swap contracts have been authorized pursuant to our policies and procedures. we do not use financial instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives. fuel price risk fuel costs represent a significant operating expense. when economically practical, we may enter into new fuel hedges, renew contracts, or engage in other strategies to mitigate market risk. where appropriate, we have implemented a fuel recovery fee that is designed to recover our fuel costs. while we charge fuel recovery fees to a majority of our customers, we are unable to charge such fees to all customers. consequently, an increase in fuel costs results in (1) an increase in our cost of operations, (2) a smaller increase in our revenue (from the fuel recovery fee) and (3) a decrease in our operating margin percentage. conversely, a decrease in fuel costs results in (1) a decrease in our cost of operations, (2) a smaller decrease in our revenue and (3) an increase in our operating margin percentage. at current consumption levels, we believe a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel costs by approximately $22 million per year. offsetting these changes in fuel expense would be changes in our fuel recovery fee charged to our customers. at current participation rates, we believe a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel recovery fee by approximately $22 million per year. our operations also require the use of certain petrochemical-based products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of petrochemicals. an increase in the price of petrochemicals could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs. we also are susceptible to increases in indirect fuel recovery fees from our vendors. our fuel costs were $362.4 million in 2015 , or 4.0 % of revenue, compared to $500.0 million in 2014 , or 5.7% of revenue, and $516.7 million in 2013 , or 6.1% of revenue. for additional discussion and detail of our fuel hedges, see note 16, financial instruments , to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k. commodities prices we market recycled products such as cardboard and newspaper from our recycling centers. market demand for recycled commodities causes volatility in commodity prices. at current volumes and mix of materials, we believe a $10 per ton change in the price of recycled commodities will change annual revenue and operating income by approximately $27 million and $18 million , respectively. revenue from sales of these products in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 was $372.0 million , $405.8 million and $374.6 million , respectively. 62 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors this form 10-k contains certain forward-looking information about us that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. words such as guidance, expect, will, may, anticipate, plan, estimate, project, intend, should, can, likely, could, believe and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. these statements include statements about our plans, strategies and prospects. forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. these statements are based upon our management's current beliefs and expectations and are subject to risk and uncertainties, including the risks set forth below in these risk factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the expectations will prove to be correct. accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this form 10-k. except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, we undertake no obligation to update or publish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this form 10-k or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. general economic conditions can directly and adversely affect our operating results. our business is directly affected by changes in national and general economic factors and overall economic activity that are outside of our control, including consumer confidence and interest rates. a weak economy generally results in decreases in volumes of waste generated, which adversely affects our revenues. in addition, we have a relatively high fixed-cost structure, which is difficult to adjust quickly to match declining waste volume levels. consumer uncertainty and the loss of consumer confidence may decrease overall economic activity and thereby limit the amount of services we provide. additionally, the decline in waste volumes may result in increased competitive pricing pressure and increased customer turnover, resulting in lower revenue and increased operating costs. operating in an environment of worsening economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. further, recovery in the solid waste industry historically has lagged behind recovery in the general economy. accordingly, we cannot assure you that an improvement in general economic conditions will result in an immediate, or any, improvement in our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 14 table of contents weakness in the u.s. economy may expose us to credit risk for amounts due from governmental agencies, large national accounts, industrial customers and others. weakness in the u.s. economy reduces the amount of taxes collected by various governmental agencies. we provide services to a number of these agencies, including numerous municipalities. these governmental agencies may suffer financial difficulties resulting from a decrease in tax revenue and may ultimately be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us. in addition, weakness in the economy may cause other customers, including our large national accounts, or industrial or energy services clients, to suffer financial difficulties and ultimately to be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us. this could negatively impact our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the waste industry is highly competitive and includes competitors that may have greater financial and operational resources, flexibility to reduce prices or other competitive advantages that could make it difficult for us to compete effectively. we principally compete with large national waste management companies, numerous municipalities, and numerous regional and local companies. competition for collection accounts is primarily based on price and the quality of services. competition for disposal business is primarily based on price, geographic location and quality of operations. one of our competitors may have greater financial and operational resources than we do. further, many counties and municipalities that operate their own waste collection and disposal facilities have the benefits of tax revenue or tax-exempt financing. our ability to obtain solid waste volume for our landfills also may be limited by the fact that some major collection operations also own or operate landfills to which they send their waste. in certain markets in which we do not own or operate a landfill, from time to time our collection operations may have difficulty competing effectively. if we were to lose market share or if we were to lower prices to address competitive issues, it could negatively impact our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. price increases may not be adequate to offset the effect of increased costs and may cause us to lose volume. we seek to secure price increases necessary to offset increased costs, improve our operating margins and earn an adequate return on our substantial investments in assets such as our landfills. from time to time, our competitors reduce their prices in an effort to expand their market share. contractual, general economic or market-specific conditions also may limit our ability to raise prices. for example, many of our contracts have price adjustment provisions that are tied to an index such as the consumer price index. particularly in a weak u.s. economy, our costs may increase in excess of the increase, if any, in the consumer price index. this may continue to be the case even when the u.s. economy recovers because a recovery in the solid waste industry historically has lagged behind a recovery in the general economy. as a result, we may be unable to offset increases in costs, improve our operating margins and obtain adequate investment returns through price increases. price increases also might cause us to lose volume to lower-cost competitors. increases in the cost of fuel or petrochemicals would increase our operating expenses, and we cannot assure you that we would be able to recover such cost increases from our customers. we depend on fuel purchased in the open market to operate our collection and transfer trucks and other equipment used for collection, transfer and disposal. fuel prices are unpredictable and fluctuate significantly based on events beyond our control, including geopolitical developments, actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries and other oil and gas producers, supply and demand for oil and gas, war, terrorism and unrest in oil-producing countries, adverse weather and regional production patterns. due to contractual or market factors, we may not be able to offset such volatility through fuel recovery fees. our fuel costs were $317.0 million in 2016 , or 3.4 % of revenue, compared to $362.4 million in 2015 , or 4.0% of revenue. to manage our exposure to volatility in fuel prices, we have entered into multiple swap agreements whereby we receive or make payments to counter-parties should the price of fuel vary from a specified amount. during 2016 , approximately 20% of our fuel volume purchases were hedged with swap agreements. additionally, we are able to collect fuel recovery fees from some customers. at current consumption levels, a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel costs by approximately $25 million on an annual basis. offsetting these changes in fuel expense would be changes in our fuel recovery fee charged to our customers. at current participation rates, we believe a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel recovery fee by approximately $25 million . accordingly, a substantial rise or drop in fuel costs could result in a material effect to our revenue and cost of operations. over the last several years, regulations have been adopted mandating changes in the composition of fuels for motor vehicles. the renewable fuel standards that the epa sets annually affect the type of fuel our motor vehicle fleet uses. pursuant to the energy independence and security act of 2007, the epa establishes annual renewable fuel volume requirements for four different categories of renewable fuels (renewable fuel, advanced biofuel, cellulosic biofuel, and biomass-based diesel). these volume requirements set standards for the proportion of refiners' or importers' total fuel volume that must contain renewable fuels (as designated by regulation). the total volume metrics for each year vary based upon a number of factors (e.g., the 15 table of contents availability of such fuels), and it is difficult to predict the ultimate quantity that the epa will eventually mandate for 2017 and beyond. these regulations are one of many factors that may affect the cost of the fuel we use. our operations also require the use of products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of petrochemicals. an increase in the price of petrochemicals could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs. petrochemical prices, and hence our operating and capital costs, may be further affected by regulatory efforts to reduce greenhouse gases from the industries that produce such petrochemicals. we are also susceptible to increases in indirect fuel recovery fees from our vendors. fluctuations in prices for recycled commodities that we sell to customers may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we purchase or collect and process recyclable materials such as paper, cardboard, plastics, aluminum and other metals for sale to third parties. our results of operations may be affected by changing prices or market requirements for recyclable materials. the resale and purchase prices of, and market demand for, recyclable materials are volatile due to changes in economic conditions and numerous other factors beyond our control. these fluctuations may affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. approximately 74% of our recycling center volume relates to occ, onp and other mixed paper. historically, to manage our exposure to fluctuations in prices for recycled commodities, we have entered into multiple hedging arrangements whereby we receive or make payments to counter-parties should the price of recycled commodities vary from a specified amount or range. during 2016 , we entered into multiple agreements related to forecasted occ sales. at current volumes and mix of materials, we believe a $10 per ton change in the price of recycled commodities will change annual revenue and operating income by approximately $27 million and $18 million , respectively, on an annual basis. accordingly, a substantial rise or drop in recycled commodity prices could result in a material effect to our revenue and cost of operations. adverse weather conditions, including those brought about by climate change, may limit our operations and increase the costs of collection and disposal. our collection and landfill operations could be adversely impacted by extended periods of inclement weather, or by increased severity of weather and climate extremes resulting from climate change, some of which we may already be experiencing. recent studies suggest that global warming is occurring faster than previously projected, with the epa projecting a 3 to 12 fahrenheit temperature increase in the united states by the end of the century. in addition to sea level rise, this temperature increase is expected to result in more severe droughts, floods, and other extreme weather events. any of these factors could increase the volume of waste collected under our existing contracts (without corresponding compensation), interfere with collection, transfer station and landfill operations, delay the development of landfill capacity or reduce the volume of waste generated by our customers. in addition, adverse weather conditions may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect our operating results in the affected regions during those periods. the solid waste industry is a capital-intensive industry and our capital expenditures may exceed current expectations, which could require us to obtain additional funding for our operations or impair our ability to grow our business. our ability to remain competitive and to grow our business largely depends on our cash flow from operations and access to capital. if our capital efficiency programs cannot offset the effect of inflation and business growth, it may be necessary to increase the amount we spend. additionally, if we make acquisitions or further expand our operations, the amount we spend on capital, capping, closure, post-closure, environmental remediation and other items will increase. our cash needs also will increase if the expenditures for capping, closure, post-closure and remediation activities increase above our current estimates, which may occur over a long period due to changes in federal, state or local government requirements and other factors beyond our control. increases in expenditures would negatively impact our cash flows. we may be unable to obtain or maintain required permits or to expand existing permitted capacity of our landfills, which could decrease our revenue and increase our costs. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain the permits required to operate because permits to operate new landfills and transfer stations, or to expand the permitted capacity of existing landfills, have become more difficult and expensive to obtain and maintain. permits often take years to obtain as a result of numerous hearings and compliance requirements with regard to zoning, environmental and other regulations. these permits are also often subject to resistance from citizen or other groups and other political pressures. local communities and citizen groups, adjacent landowners, governmental agencies and others may oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we may need, allege violations of the permits under which we currently operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. responding to these challenges has at times increased our costs and extended the time associated with establishing new landfills and transfer stations and expanding existing landfills. in addition, failure to receive regulatory and zoning approval may prohibit us from establishing new landfills or transfer stations or expanding existing landfills. our failure 16 table of contents to obtain the required permits to operate our landfills and transfer stations could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, we may have to dispose collected waste at landfills operated by our competitors or haul the waste long distances at a higher cost to one of our other landfills, either of which could significantly increase our waste disposal costs. if we do not appropriately estimate landfill capping, closure, post-closure and remediation costs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. a landfill must be closed and capped, and post-closure maintenance commenced, once the landfill's permitted capacity is reached and additional capacity is not authorized. further, we undertake remediation activities at some of our solid waste facilities. we have significant financial obligations relating to capping, closure, post-closure and remediation costs at our existing owned or operated landfills, and will have material financial obligations with respect to any future owned or operated landfills. we establish accruals for the estimated costs associated with capping, closure, post-closure and remediation obligations. we could underestimate such costs, and our financial obligations for capping, closure, post-closure or remediation costs could exceed the amounts accrued or amounts otherwise receivable pursuant to trust funds established for this purpose. additionally, if a landfill must be closed earlier than expected or its remaining airspace is reduced for any other reason, the accruals for capping, closure, post-closure and remediation could be required to be accelerated. if our capping, closure, post-closure or remediation costs exceed the amounts accrued, or if such accruals are required to be accelerated, this could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. alternatives to landfill disposal could reduce our disposal volumes and cause our revenues and operating results to decline. most of the states in which we operate landfills require counties and municipalities to formulate comprehensive plans to reduce the volume of solid waste deposited in landfills through waste planning, composting, recycling or other programs. some state and local governments mandate waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of wastes, such as yard waste, at landfills. further, many of our customers voluntarily are diverting waste to alternatives to landfill disposal, such as recycling and composting, while also working to reduce the amount of waste they generate. many of the largest companies in the u.s. are setting zero-waste goals in which they strive to send no waste to landfills. although such actions help to protect our environment, they have reduced, and will in the future reduce, the volume of waste going to landfills and may affect the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal. accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to operate our landfills at their current volumes or charge current prices for landfill disposal services due to possible decreases in demand for such services. if we cannot expand our service offerings and grow lines of business to service waste streams that do not go to landfills and to provide services for customers that wish to reduce waste entirely, this could have a negative effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. further, even if we can develop such service offerings and lines of business, disposal alternatives nonetheless could have a negative effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the possibility of landfill and transfer station site development projects, or expansion projects not being completed or certain other events could result in material charges to income. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we capitalize certain expenditures relating to development, expansion and other projects. if a facility or operation is permanently shut down or determined to be impaired, or a development, expansion or other project is not completed or is determined to be impaired, we will charge against earnings any unamortized capitalized expenditures relating to such facility or project that we are unable to recover through sale, transfer or otherwise. we also carry a significant amount of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheets, which we must assess for impairment annually, and more frequently in the case of certain triggering events. we may incur charges against earnings in accordance with this policy, or other events may cause impairments. such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. the business and assets we operate expose us to safety, operational and other risks, including the risk of personal injury to our employees or third parties. the provision of waste collection, transfer, disposal, recycling and energy services, including the operation of landfills, cng fueling stations, a substantial fleet of trucks and other waste-related assets, involves risks. these risks include, among others, the risk of truck accidents, equipment defects, malfunctions and failures, improper use of dangerous equipment, the release of hazardous substances, fire and explosion, any of which could result in environmental liability, personal injury, loss of life, business interruption or property damage or destruction. while we carry insurance to cover many contingencies, and seek to minimize our exposure to these risks through maintenance, training and compliance programs, any substantial losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 17 table of contents we are subject to costly environmental regulations and flow-control regulations that may affect our operating margins, restrict our operations and subject us to additional liability. complying with laws and regulations governing the collection, treatment, storage, transfer and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and materials, air quality and emissions of greenhouse gases, water quality and the remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances is costly. laws and regulations often require us to enhance or replace our equipment and to modify landfill operations or initiate final closure of a landfill. we cannot assure you that we will be able to implement price increases sufficient to offset the costs of complying with these laws and regulations. in addition, environmental regulatory changes could accelerate or increase expenditures for capping, closure, post-closure and environmental and remediation activities at solid waste facilities and obligate us to spend sums in addition to those presently accrued for such purposes. our collection, transfer, and landfill operations are and will continue to be affected by state or local laws or regulations that restrict the transportation of solid waste across state, county or other jurisdictional lines or that direct the flow of waste to a specified facility or facilities. such laws and regulations could negatively affect our operations, resulting in declines in landfill volumes and increased costs of alternate disposal. regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could impose costs on our operations, the magnitude of which we cannot yet estimate. efforts to curtail the emission of greenhouse gases and to ameliorate the effects of climate change continue to progress. our landfill operations emit anthropogenic methane, identified as a greenhouse gas, and our vehicle fleet emits, among other things, carbon dioxide, which also is a greenhouse gas. conventional wisdom still suggests that passage of comprehensive, federal climate change legislation is highly unlikely. nonetheless, should comprehensive federal climate change legislation be enacted, we expect it to impose costs on our operations, the materiality of which we cannot predict. absent comprehensive federal legislation to control greenhouse gas emissions, the epa is moving ahead administratively under its existing clean air act authority. the epa is compelled to issue rules by the u.s. supreme court's april 2007 massachusetts v. epa ruling that greenhouse gases are pollutants for purposes of the clean air act and the epa's december 2009 finding that continued emissions of greenhouse gases endanger human health and welfare. with respect to our light- and heavy-duty vehicle fleet, the epa has since finalized regulations limiting greenhouse gas emissions and increasing fuel economy standards. the epa and the nhtsa have finalized such regulations applicable to heavy-duty vehicles through model-year 2018 and to light-duty vehicles through model-year 2025. on august 16, 2016, the epa and the nhtsa issued additional regulations that would impose more stringent standards for heavy-duty vehicles through model-year 2027. federal efforts to curtail greenhouse gas emissions and to increase the fuel efficiency of light-duty and heavy-duty vehicles could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. with regard to greenhouse gas emissions from our landfills, on july 14, 2016, the epa issued amendments to its regulations that require large landfills that commenced construction, reconstruction or modification on or after july 17, 2014 to capture additional landfill gas to reduce emissions of methane and certain non-methane gases, which are recognized as greenhouse gases. in a separate action finalized that same day, the epa issued updates to its 1996 emission guidelines to reduce emissions of landfill gas from existing active landfills. both actions are part of the obama administration's climate action plan - strategy to reduce methane emissions. these regulations may require our landfills to deploy more stringent emission controls and monitoring systems, with resulting capital or operating costs. the application of these or other greenhouse gas regulations to our landfills could have a material adverse effect on our landfill operations and on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may have environmental liabilities that are not covered by our insurance. changes in insurance markets also may impact our financial results. we may incur environmental liabilities arising from our operations or properties. we maintain high deductibles for our environmental liability insurance coverage. if we were to incur substantial liability for environmental damage, our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover such liability. this could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. also, due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we have experienced, and may experience in the future, increased insurance retention levels and increased premiums or unavailability of insurance. as we assume more risk for insurance through higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in our insurance reserves and expense. 18 table of contents despite our efforts, we may incur additional liability under environmental laws in excess of amounts presently known and accrued. we are a potentially responsible party at many sites under cercla, which provides for the remediation of contaminated facilities and imposes strict, joint and several liability for the cost of remediation on current owners and operators of a facility at which there has been a release or a threatened release of a hazardous substance. cercla liability also extends to parties who were site owners and operators at the time hazardous substances were disposed, and on persons who arrange for the disposal of such substances at the facility (e.g., generators of the waste and transporters who selected the disposal site). hundreds of substances are defined as hazardous under cercla and their presence, even in minute amounts, can result in substantial liability. notwithstanding our efforts to comply with applicable environmental laws, we may have additional liability under environmental laws in excess of our current reserves because, among other things, hazardous substances may be present in waste collected by us or disposed of in our landfills (or in waste collected, transported or disposed of in the past by companies we have acquired), environmental laws may change, or there may be adverse environmental conditions that develop or were otherwise previously unknown to us. for example, during 2012 through 2014, we recorded an aggregate of approximately $400 million in charges relating to environmental remediation at our closed landfill in bridgeton, missouri. actual costs for liabilities at bridgeton or other sites could be significantly greater than amounts we have accrued for these purposes. environmental liabilities in excess of our current reserves could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. we have substantial indebtedness, which may limit our financial flexibility. as of december 31, 2016 , we had approximately $7.7 billion in principal value of debt and capital leases outstanding. this amount of indebtedness and our debt service requirements may limit our financial flexibility to access additional capital and make capital expenditures and other investments in our business, to withstand economic downturns and interest rate increases, to plan for or react to changes in our business and our industry, and to comply with the financial and other covenants of our debt instruments. further, our ability to comply with these financial and other covenants may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions or other events that are beyond our control. if we do not comply with these covenants, we may be required to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, reducing or eliminating dividends or stock repurchases, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of our existing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. we may be unable to maintain our credit ratings or execute our financial strategy. our ability to execute our financial strategy depends in part on our ability to maintain investment grade ratings on our debt. the credit rating process is contingent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our investment grade ratings in the future. if we were unable to do so, our interest expense would increase and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms may be adversely affected. our financial strategy also depends on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to reinvest in our existing business, fund internal growth, acquire other solid waste businesses, pay dividends, repurchase stock, and take other actions to enhance shareholder value. we cannot assure you that we will succeed in executing our broad-based pricing initiatives, that we will generate sufficient cash flow to execute our financial strategy, that we will be able to pay cash dividends at our present rate, or increase them, or that we will be able to continue our share repurchase program. currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. we are and will continue to be involved in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of our business. many of these matters raise complicated factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties. the timing of the final resolutions to lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings is uncertain. further, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments and adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for example, we incur costs to defend against litigation brought by government agencies and private parties who allege we are in violation of our permits and applicable environmental laws and regulations, or who assert claims alleging nuisance, environmental damage, personal injury or property damage. as a result, we may be required to pay fines or judgments or implement corrective measures, or we may have our permits and licenses modified or revoked. a significant judgment against us, the loss of a significant permit or license, or the imposition of a significant fine could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we establish accruals for our estimates of the costs 19 table of contents associated with lawsuits, regulatory, governmental and other legal proceedings. we could underestimate such accruals. such shortfalls could result in significant unanticipated charges to income. we may be unable to manage our growth effectively. our growth strategy places significant demands on our financial, operational and management resources. to continue our growth, we may need to add administrative, managerial and other personnel, and may need to make additional investments in operations and systems. we cannot assure you that we will be able to find and train qualified personnel, or do so on a timely basis, or to expand or otherwise modify our operations and systems to the extent, and in the time, required. we may be unable to execute our acquisition growth strategy. our ability to execute our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to identify and acquire desirable acquisition candidates and on our ability to successfully integrate acquired operations into our business. the integration of our operations with those of acquired companies may present significant challenges to our management. in addition, competition for acquisition candidates may prevent us from acquiring certain acquisition candidates. thus, we cannot assure you that: desirable acquisition candidates exist or will be identified; we will be able to acquire any of the candidates identified; we will effectively integrate and manage companies we acquire; or any acquisitions will be profitable or accretive to our earnings. if any of these factors force us to alter our growth strategy, our growth prospects could be adversely affected. businesses we acquire may have undisclosed liabilities. our due diligence investigations of acquisition candidates may fail to discover certain undisclosed liabilities. if we acquire a company having undisclosed liabilities such as environmental, remediation or contractual liabilities, as a successor owner we may be responsible for such undisclosed liabilities. we try to minimize our exposure to such liabilities by conducting due diligence, by obtaining indemnification from each seller of the acquired companies, by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase price as security for the indemnification and by acquiring only specified assets. however, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain indemnification or that any indemnification obtained will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any undisclosed liabilities arising from our acquisitions. our consolidated financial statements are based on estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap and necessarily include amounts based on management's estimates. actual results may differ from these amounts. significant items requiring management to make subjective or complex judgments that are inherently uncertain include the recoverability of long-lived assets, the depletion and amortization of landfill development costs, accruals for final capping, closure and post-closure costs, valuation allowances for accounts receivable and deferred tax assets, liabilities for potential litigation, claims and assessments, and liabilities for environmental remediation, multiemployer pension plans, employee benefit plans, deferred taxes, uncertain tax positions, insurance and our estimates of the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in any acquisition. we cannot assure you that the liabilities recorded for items such as these will be adequate to cover the costs we ultimately will face. the introduction of new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our reported results of operations. complying with new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our results of operations or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our results of operations or financial conditions in future periods. we may be subject to workforce influences, including work stoppages, which could increase our operating costs and disrupt our operations. as of december 31, 2016 , approximately 27% of our workforce was represented by various local labor unions. if our unionized workers were to engage in strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and an increase in our operating costs, which could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additional groups of employees may seek union representation in the future and, if successful, the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements could divert management's attention and result in increased operating costs. if a greater percentage of our workforce becomes unionized, our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted due to the potential for increased operating costs. 20 table of contents our obligation to fund multiemployer pension plans to which we contribute, or our withdrawal from such plans, may have an adverse effect on us. we contribute to 26 multiemployer pension plans under collective bargaining agreements (cbas) covering union-represented employees. approximately 20% of our total current employees participate in such multiemployer plans. we do not administer these plans and generally are not represented on the boards of trustees of these plans. the pension protection act enacted in 2006 (the ppa) requires under-funded pension plans to improve their funding ratios. based on the information available to us, we believe that some of the multiemployer plans to which we contribute are either critical or endangered as those terms are defined in the ppa. we cannot presently determine the amount of additional funding, if any, we may be required to make to these plans. however, plan assessments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows for a given period. further, under current law, upon the termination of a multiemployer pension plan, or in the event of a withdrawal by us (which we consider from time to time) or a mass withdrawal of contributing employers (each, a withdrawal event), we would be required to make payments to the plan for our proportionate share of the plan's unfunded vested liabilities. we cannot assure you that there will not be a withdrawal event with respect to any of the multiemployer pension plans to which we contribute or that, in the event of such a withdrawal event, the amounts we would be required to contribute would not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for additional discussion and detail regarding multiemployer pension plans see, note 11, employee benefit plans, to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k. the costs of providing for pension benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in pension fund values and fluctuating actuarial assumptions, and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. we sponsor a defined benefit pension plan that is funded with trustee assets invested in a diversified portfolio of debt and equity securities. our costs for providing such benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in the market value of plan assets. our pension expenses and related funding requirements are also subject to various actuarial calculations and assumptions, which may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, interest rates and other factors. a significant increase in our pension obligations and funding requirements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects. our future success depends on the continued contributions of several key employees and officers. the loss of the services of key employees and officers, whether such loss is through resignation or other causes, or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects. our strategy includes an increasing dependence on technology in our operations; if any of our key technology fails, our business could be adversely affected. our operations are increasingly dependent on technology. our information technology systems are critical to our ability to drive profitable growth through differentiation, continue the implementation of standardized processes and deliver a consistent customer experience. one of the five pillars of our strategy is to grow through enabling our customers to do business with us through more channels and with better access to information and, accordingly, we have made substantial investment in our e-commerce platform. problems with the operation of the information or communication technology systems we use could adversely affect, or temporarily disable, all or a portion of our operations. inabilities and delays in implementing new systems can also affect our ability to realize projected or expected revenue or cost savings. additionally, any systems failures could impede our ability to timely collect and report financial results in accordance with applicable laws. a cyber security incident could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers. we use computers in substantially all aspects of our business operations. we also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our employees and our customers. such uses give rise to cyber security risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers' personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about the company and its business partners. we also rely on a payment card industry compliant third party to protect our customers' credit card information. while the company pursues its strategy to grow through acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, the company is also expanding and improving its information technologies, 21 table of contents resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cyber security risk. if we fail to assess and identify cyber security risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventive measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability and competitive disadvantage. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our major market risk exposure of our financial instruments is changing interest rates in the united states and fluctuations in libor. we intend to manage interest rate risk through the use of a combination of fixed and floating rate debt. the carrying value of our variable rate debt approximates fair value because interest rates are variable and, accordingly, approximates current market rates for instruments with similar risk and maturities. the fair value of our debt is determined as of the balance sheet date and is subject to change. the table below provides information about certain of our market-sensitive financial instruments and constitutes a forward-looking statement. 61 table of contents expected maturity date 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 thereafter total fair value as of december 31, 2016 fixed rate debt: amount outstanding (in millions) $ 5.1 $ 705.7 $ 654.9 $ 855.1 $ 640.5 $ 3,709.9 $ 6,571.2 $ 7,206.4 average interest rates 7.2 % 3.8 % 5.5 % 5.0 % 5.5 % 4.5 % 4.7 % variable rate debt: amount outstanding (in millions) $ $ $ 175.0 $ 71.2 $ 197.0 $ 734.1 $ 1,177.3 $ 1,177.3 average interest rates % % 0.2 % 1.0 % 0.6 % 0.9 % 0.8 % the fixed and variable rate debt amounts above exclude the remaining non-cash discounts, premiums and adjustments to fair value totaling $89.6 million . additionally, during the second half of 2013, we entered into various interest rate swap agreements relative to our 4.750% fixed rate senior notes due in may 2023. the goal was to reduce overall borrowing costs and rebalance our debt portfolio's ratio of fixed to floating interest rates. these swap agreements, which were designated as fair value hedges, have a total notional value of $300.0 million as of december 31, 2016 . our interest rate swap contracts have been authorized pursuant to our policies and procedures. we do not use financial instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives. during 2016, we also entered into a number of interest rate lock agreements having an aggregate notional amount of $525.0 million with fixed interest rates ranging from 1.900% to 2.280% to manage exposure to fluctuations in interest rates in anticipation of a planned future issuance of senior notes. upon the expected issuance of senior notes, we will terminate the interest rate locks and settle with our counterparties. as of december 31, 2016 , we had $1,177.3 million of floating rate debt and $300.0 million of floating interest rate swap contracts. if interest rates increased or decreased by 100 basis points on our variable rate debt, annualized interest expense and net cash payments for interest would increase or decrease by approximately $15 million. this analysis does not reflect the effect that interest rates would have on other items, such as new borrowings and the impact on the economy. see note 9, debt, of the notes to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k for further information regarding how we manage interest rate risk. fuel price risk fuel costs represent a significant operating expense. when economically practical, we may enter into new fuel hedges, renew contracts, or engage in other strategies to mitigate market risk. where appropriate, we have implemented a fuel recovery fee that is designed to recover our fuel costs. while we charge fuel recovery fees to a majority of our customers, we are unable to charge such fees to all customers. at current consumption levels, we believe a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel costs by approximately $25 million per year. offsetting these changes in fuel expense would be changes in our fuel recovery fee charged to our customers. at current participation rates, we believe a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel recovery fee by approximately $25 million per year. our operations also require the use of certain petrochemical-based products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of petrochemicals. an increase in the price of petrochemicals could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs. we also are susceptible to increases in indirect fuel recovery fees from our vendors. our fuel costs were $317.0 million in 2016 , or 3.4 % of revenue, compared to $362.4 million in 2015 , or 4.0% of revenue, and $500.0 million in 2014 , or 5.7% of revenue. for additional discussion and detail of our fuel hedges, see note 16, financial instruments , to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k. commodities prices we market recycled products such as old corrugated containers and old newsprint from our recycling centers. market demand for recycled commodities causes volatility in commodity prices. at current volumes and mix of materials, we believe a $10 per 62 table of contents ton change in the price of recycled commodities will change annual revenue and operating income by approximately $27 million and $18 million , respectively. revenue from sales of these products in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 was $420.4 million , $372.0 million and $405.8 million , respectively. 63 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors disclosure regarding forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k contains certain forward-looking information about us that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. words such as guidance, expect, will, may, anticipate, plan, estimate, project, intend, should, can, likely, could, outlook and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. among other sections of this form 10-k, the risk factors and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations include forward-looking statements. these statements include statements about our plans, strategies and prospects. forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. these statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of our management and are subject to risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the expectations will prove to be correct. among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements are: general economic and market conditions, including inflation and changes in commodity pricing, fuel, interest rates, labor, risk, health insurance and other variable costs that generally are not within our control, and our exposure to credit and counterparty risk; whether our estimates and assumptions concerning our selected balance sheet accounts, income tax accounts, final capping, closure, post-closure and remediation costs, available airspace, projected costs and expenses related to our landfills and property and equipment, fair values of acquired assets and liabilities assumed in our acquisitions, and labor, fuel rates and economic and inflationary trends, turn out to be correct or appropriate; competition and demand for services in the solid waste industry; price increases to our customers, which may not be adequate to offset the impact of increased costs, including labor, third-party disposal and fuel, and may cause us to lose volume; our ability to manage growth and execute our growth strategy; our compliance with, and future changes in, environmental and flow control regulations and our ability to obtain approvals from regulatory agencies in connection with operating and expanding our landfills; the impact on us of our substantial indebtedness, including on our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms to finance our operations and growth strategy and to operate within the limitations imposed by financing arrangements; our ability to retain our investment grade ratings for our debt; our dependence on key personnel; our dependence on technology in our operations; our dependence on large, long-term collection, transfer and disposal contracts; the capital intensive nature of our business, which may consume cash in excess of cash flow from operations; exposure to environmental liabilities or remediation requirements, to the extent not adequately covered by insurance, which could result in substantial expenses; risks associated with undisclosed liabilities of acquired businesses; risks associated with pending and future legal proceedings, including litigation, audits or investigations brought by or before any governmental body; severe weather conditions, including those brought about by climate change, which could impair our financial results by causing increased costs, loss of revenue, reduced operational efficiency or disruptions to our operations; compliance with existing and future legal and regulatory requirements, including limitations or bans on disposal of certain types of wastes or on the transportation of waste, which could limit our ability to conduct or grow our business, increase our costs to operate or require additional capital expenditures; safety and operational risks, including the risk of personal injury to our employees or third parties; potential increases in our costs if we are required to provide additional funding to any multiemployer pension fund to which we contribute or if a withdrawal event occurs with respect to any such fund; 16 table of contents the negative impact on our operations of union organizing campaigns, work stoppages or labor shortages; the negative effect that trends toward requiring recycling, waste reduction at the source and prohibiting the disposal of certain types of wastes could have on volumes of waste going to landfills; changes by the financial accounting standards board or other accounting regulatory bodies to generally accepted accounting principles or policies; the impact of u.s. and international tax laws and regulations on our business; a cyber-security incident that could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers; and acts of war, riots or terrorism, including the continuing war on terrorism, as well as actions taken or to be taken by the united states or other governments as a result of further acts or threats of terrorism, and the impact of these acts on economic, financial and social conditions in the united states. the risks included here are not exhaustive. refer to the risk factors in this item 1a for further discussion regarding our exposure to risks. you should be aware that any forward-looking statement in this form 10-k and the documents incorporated herein or therein by reference or elsewhere, speaks only as of the date on which we make it. additionally, new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all such risk factors, or to assess the impact such risk factors might have on our business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. you should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement. except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, we undertake no obligation to update or publish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this form 10-k and the documents incorporated by reference, as the case may be, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. general economic conditions can directly and adversely affect our operating results. our business is directly affected by changes in national and general economic factors and overall economic activity that are outside of our control, including consumer confidence and interest rates. a weak economy generally results in decreases in volumes of waste generated, which adversely affects our revenues. in addition, we have a relatively high fixed-cost structure, which is difficult to adjust quickly to match declining waste volume levels. consumer uncertainty and the loss of consumer confidence may decrease overall economic activity and thereby limit the amount of services we provide. additionally, the decline in waste volumes may result in increased competitive pricing pressure and increased customer turnover, resulting in lower revenue and increased operating costs. operating in an environment of worsening economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. further, recovery in the solid waste industry historically has lagged behind recovery in the general economy. accordingly, we cannot assure you that an improvement in general economic conditions will result in an immediate, or any, improvement in our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. weakness in the u.s. economy may expose us to credit risk for amounts due from governmental agencies, large national accounts, industrial customers and others. weakness in the u.s. economy reduces the amount of taxes collected by various governmental agencies. we provide services to a number of these agencies, including numerous municipalities. these governmental agencies may suffer financial difficulties resulting from a decrease in tax revenue and may ultimately be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us. in addition, weakness in the economy may cause other customers, including our large national accounts, or industrial or energy services clients, to suffer financial difficulties and ultimately to be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us. this could negatively impact our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the waste industry is highly competitive and includes competitors that may have greater financial and operational resources, flexibility to reduce prices or other competitive advantages that could make it difficult for us to compete effectively. we principally compete with large national waste management companies, numerous municipalities, and numerous regional and local companies. competition for collection accounts is primarily based on price and the quality of services. competition for disposal business is primarily based on price, geographic location and quality of operations. one of our competitors may have greater financial and operational resources than we do. further, many counties and municipalities that operate their own waste collection and disposal facilities have the benefits of tax revenue and greater opportunities for tax-exempt financing. our ability to obtain solid waste volume for our landfills also may be limited by the fact that some major collection operations also own or operate landfills to which they send their waste. in certain markets in which we do not own or operate a landfill, our collection operations may have difficulty competing effectively. if we were to lose market share or if we were to lower prices to address competitive issues, it could negatively impact our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 17 table of contents price increases may not be adequate to offset the effect of increased costs and may cause us to lose volume. we seek to secure price increases necessary to offset increased costs, improve our operating margins and earn an adequate return on our substantial investments in assets such as our landfills. from time to time, our competitors reduce their prices in an effort to expand their market share. contractual, general economic or market-specific conditions also may limit our ability to raise prices. for example, many of our contracts have price adjustment provisions that are tied to an index such as the consumer price index. particularly in a weak u.s. economy, our costs may increase in excess of the increase, if any, in the consumer price index. this may continue to be the case even when the u.s. economy recovers because a recovery in the solid waste industry historically has lagged behind a recovery in the general economy. as a result, we may be unable to offset increases in costs, improve our operating margins and obtain adequate investment returns through price increases. price increases also might cause us to lose volume to lower-cost competitors. increases in the cost of fuel or petrochemicals would increase our operating expenses, and we cannot assure you that we would be able to recover such cost increases from our customers. we depend on fuel purchased in the open market to operate our collection and transfer trucks and other equipment used for collection, transfer and disposal. fuel prices are unpredictable and fluctuate significantly based on events beyond our control, including geopolitical developments, actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries and other oil and gas producers, changes in refinery operations, supply and demand for oil and gas, war, terrorism and unrest in oil-producing countries, adverse weather and regional production patterns. due to contractual or market factors, we may not be able to offset such volatility through fuel recovery fees. our fuel costs were $349.8 million in 2017 , or 3.5 % of revenue, compared to $317.0 million in 2016 , or 3.4% of revenue. to manage our exposure to volatility in fuel prices, we have entered into multiple swap agreements whereby we receive or make payments to counter-parties should the price of fuel vary from a specified amount. during 2017 , approximately 9% of our fuel volume purchases were hedged with swap agreements. additionally, we are able to collect fuel recovery fees from some customers. at current consumption levels, a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel costs by approximately $25 million on an annual basis. offsetting these changes in fuel expense would be changes in our fuel recovery fee charged to our customers. at current participation rates, we believe a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel recovery fee by approximately $25 million . accordingly, a substantial rise or drop in fuel costs could result in a material effect to our revenue and cost of operations. over the last several years, regulations have been adopted mandating changes in the composition of fuels for motor vehicles. the renewable fuel standards that the epa sets annually affect the type of fuel our motor vehicle fleet uses. pursuant to the energy independence and security act of 2007, the epa establishes annual renewable fuel volume requirements for four different categories of renewable fuels (renewable fuel, advanced biofuel, cellulosic biofuel, and biomass-based diesel). these volume requirements set standards for the proportion of refiners' or importers' total fuel volume that must contain renewable fuels (as designated by regulation). the total volume metrics for each year vary based upon a number of factors (e.g., the availability of such fuels), and it is difficult to predict the ultimate quantity that the epa will eventually mandate for future years. these regulations are one of many factors that may affect the cost of the fuel we use. our operations also require the use of products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of petrochemicals. an increase in the price of petrochemicals could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs. petrochemical prices, and hence our operating and capital costs, may be further affected by regulatory efforts to reduce greenhouse gases from the industries that produce such petrochemicals. we are also susceptible to increases in indirect fuel recovery fees from our vendors. fluctuations in prices for recycled commodities that we sell to customers may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we purchase or collect and process recyclable materials such as paper, cardboard, plastics, aluminum and other metals for sale to third parties. our results of operations may be affected by changing prices or market requirements for recyclable materials. the resale and purchase prices of, and market demand for, recyclable materials are volatile due to changes in economic conditions and numerous other factors beyond our control. these fluctuations may affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. approximately 77% of our recycling center volume relates to occ, onp and other mixed paper. historically, to manage our exposure to fluctuations in prices for recycled commodities, we have entered into multiple hedging arrangements whereby we receive or make payments to counter-parties should the price of recycled commodities vary from a specified amount or range. during 2017 , we entered into multiple agreements related to forecasted occ sales. at current volumes and mix of materials, we believe a $10 per ton change in the price of recycled commodities will change annual revenue and operating income by approximately $20 million and $20 million , respectively, on an annual basis. accordingly, a substantial rise or drop in recycled commodity prices could result in a material effect to our revenue and cost of operations. 18 table of contents adverse weather conditions, including those brought about by climate change, may limit our operations and increase the costs of collection and disposal. our collection and landfill operations could be adversely impacted by extended periods of inclement weather, or by increased severity of weather and climate extremes resulting from climate change, some of which we may already be experiencing. recent studies suggest that global warming is occurring faster than previously projected, with the epa projecting a 3 to 12 fahrenheit temperature increase in the united states by the end of the century. in addition to sea level rise, this temperature increase is expected to result in more severe droughts, floods, and other extreme weather events. any of these factors could increase the volume of waste collected under our existing contracts (without corresponding compensation), interfere with collection, transfer station and landfill operations, delay the development of landfill capacity or reduce the volume of waste generated by our customers. in addition, adverse weather conditions may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect our operating results in the affected regions during those periods. the solid waste industry is a capital-intensive industry and our capital expenditures may exceed current expectations, which could require us to obtain additional funding for our operations or impair our ability to grow our business. our ability to remain competitive and to grow our business largely depends on our cash flow from operations and access to capital. if our capital efficiency programs cannot offset the effect of inflation and business growth, it may be necessary to increase the amount we spend. additionally, if we make acquisitions or further expand our operations, the amount we spend on capital, capping, closure, post-closure, environmental remediation and other items will increase. our cash needs also will increase if the expenditures for capping, closure, post-closure and remediation activities increase above our current estimates, which may occur over a long period due to changes in federal, state or local government requirements and other factors beyond our control. increases in expenditures would negatively impact our cash flows. we may be unable to obtain or maintain required permits or to expand existing permitted capacity of our landfills, which could decrease our revenue and increase our costs. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain the permits required to operate because permits to operate new landfills and transfer stations, or to expand the permitted capacity of existing landfills, have become more difficult and expensive to obtain and maintain. permits often take years to obtain as a result of numerous hearings and compliance requirements with regard to zoning, environmental and other regulations. these permits are also often subject to resistance from citizen or other groups and other political pressures. local communities and citizen groups, adjacent landowners, governmental agencies and others may oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we may need, allege violations of the permits under which we currently operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. responding to these challenges has at times increased our costs and extended the time associated with establishing new landfills and transfer stations and expanding existing landfills. in addition, failure to receive regulatory and zoning approval may prohibit us from establishing new landfills or transfer stations or expanding existing landfills. our failure to obtain the required permits to operate our landfills and transfer stations could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, we may have to dispose collected waste at landfills operated by our competitors or haul the waste long distances at a higher cost to one of our other landfills, either of which could significantly increase our waste disposal costs. if we do not appropriately estimate landfill capping, closure, post-closure and remediation costs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. a landfill must be closed and capped, and post-closure maintenance commenced, once the landfill's permitted capacity is reached and additional capacity is not authorized. further, we undertake remediation activities at some of our solid waste facilities. we have significant financial obligations relating to capping, closure, post-closure and remediation costs at our existing owned or operated landfills, and will have material financial obligations with respect to any future owned or operated landfills. we establish accruals for the estimated costs associated with capping, closure, post-closure and remediation obligations. we could underestimate such costs, and our financial obligations for capping, closure, post-closure or remediation costs could exceed the amounts accrued or amounts otherwise receivable pursuant to trust funds established for this purpose. additionally, if a landfill must be closed earlier than expected or its remaining airspace is reduced for any other reason, the accruals for capping, closure, post-closure and remediation could be required to be accelerated. if our capping, closure, post-closure or remediation costs exceed the amounts accrued, or if such accruals are required to be accelerated, this could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 19 table of contents alternatives to landfill disposal could reduce our disposal volumes and cause our revenues and operating results to decline. most of the states in which we operate landfills require counties and municipalities to formulate comprehensive plans to reduce the volume of solid waste deposited in landfills through waste planning, composting, recycling or other programs. some state and local governments mandate waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of wastes, such as yard waste, at landfills. further, many of our customers voluntarily are diverting waste to alternatives to landfill disposal, such as recycling and composting, while also working to reduce the amount of waste they generate. many of the largest companies in the u.s. are setting zero-waste goals in which they strive to send no waste to landfills. although such actions help to protect our environment and reduce the impact of waste on climate change, they have reduced, and will in the future reduce, the volume of waste going to landfills and may affect the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal. accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to operate our landfills at their current volumes or charge current prices for landfill disposal services due to possible decreases in demand for such services. if we cannot expand our service offerings and grow lines of business to service waste streams that do not go to landfills and to provide services for customers that wish to reduce waste entirely, this could have a negative effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. further, even if we can develop such service offerings and lines of business, disposal alternatives nonetheless could have a negative effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the possibility of landfill and transfer station site development projects, or expansion projects not being completed or certain other events could result in material charges to income. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we capitalize certain expenditures relating to development, expansion and other projects. if a facility or operation is permanently shut down or determined to be impaired, or a development, expansion or other project is not completed or is determined to be impaired, we will charge against earnings any unamortized capitalized expenditures relating to such facility or project that we are unable to recover through sale, transfer or otherwise. we also carry a significant amount of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheets, which we must assess for impairment annually, and more frequently in the case of certain triggering events. we may incur charges against earnings in accordance with this policy, or other events may cause impairments. such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. the business and assets we operate expose us to safety, operational and other risks, including the risk of personal injury to our employees or third parties. the provision of waste collection, transfer, disposal, recycling and energy services, including the operation of landfills, cng fueling stations, a substantial fleet of trucks and other waste-related assets, involves risks. these risks include, among others, the risk of truck accidents, equipment defects, malfunctions and failures, improper use of dangerous equipment, the release of hazardous substances, fire and explosion, any of which could result in environmental liability, personal injury, loss of life, business interruption or property damage or destruction. while we carry insurance to cover many contingencies, and seek to minimize our exposure to these risks through maintenance, training and compliance programs, any substantial losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to costly environmental regulations and flow-control regulations that may affect our operating margins, restrict our operations and subject us to additional liability. complying with laws and regulations governing the collection, treatment, storage, transfer and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and materials, air quality and emissions of greenhouse gases, water quality and the remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances is costly. laws and regulations often require us to enhance or replace our equipment and to modify landfill operations or initiate final closure of a landfill. we cannot assure you that we will be able to implement price increases sufficient to offset the costs of complying with these laws and regulations. in addition, environmental regulatory changes could accelerate or increase expenditures for capping, closure, post-closure and environmental and remediation activities at solid waste facilities and obligate us to spend sums in addition to those presently accrued for such purposes. our collection, transfer, and landfill operations are and will continue to be affected by state or local laws or regulations that restrict the transportation of solid waste across state, county or other jurisdictional lines or that direct the flow of waste to a specified facility or facilities. such laws and regulations could negatively affect our operations, resulting in declines in landfill volumes and increased costs of alternate disposal. 20 table of contents regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could impose costs on our operations, the magnitude of which we cannot yet estimate. efforts to curtail the emission of greenhouse gases and to ameliorate the effects of climate change continue to progress. our landfill operations emit anthropogenic methane, identified as a greenhouse gas, and our vehicle fleet emits, among other things, carbon dioxide, which also is a greenhouse gas. conventional wisdom still suggests that passage of comprehensive, federal climate change legislation is highly unlikely. nonetheless, should comprehensive federal climate change legislation be enacted, we expect it to impose costs on our operations, the materiality of which we cannot predict. absent comprehensive federal legislation to control greenhouse gas emissions, the epa is moving ahead administratively under its existing clean air act authority. the epa is compelled to issue rules by the u.s. supreme court's april 2007 massachusetts v. epa ruling that greenhouse gases are pollutants for purposes of the clean air act and the epa's december 2009 finding that continued emissions of greenhouse gases endanger human health and welfare. with respect to our light- and heavy-duty vehicle fleet, the epa has since finalized regulations limiting greenhouse gas emissions and increasing fuel economy standards. the epa and the nhtsa have finalized such regulations applicable to heavy-duty vehicles through model-year 2018 and to light-duty vehicles through model-year 2025. on august 16, 2016, the epa and the nhtsa issued additional regulations that would impose more stringent standards for heavy-duty vehicles through model-year 2027. federal efforts to curtail greenhouse gas emissions and to increase the fuel efficiency of light-duty and heavy-duty vehicles could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. with regard to greenhouse gas emissions from our landfills, on july 14, 2016, the epa issued amendments to its regulations that require large landfills that commenced construction, reconstruction or modification on or after july 17, 2014 to capture additional landfill gas to reduce emissions of methane and certain non-methane gases, which are recognized as greenhouse gases. in a separate action finalized that same day, the epa issued updates to its 1996 emission guidelines to reduce emissions of landfill gas from existing active landfills. both actions are part of the obama administration's climate action plan - strategy to reduce methane emissions. these regulations may require our landfills to deploy more stringent emission controls and monitoring systems, with resulting capital or operating costs. the application of these or other greenhouse gas regulations to our landfills could have a material adverse effect on our landfill operations and on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may have environmental liabilities that are not covered by our insurance. changes in insurance markets also may impact our financial results. we may incur environmental liabilities arising from our operations or properties. we maintain high deductibles for our environmental liability insurance coverage. if we were to incur substantial liability for environmental damage, our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover such liability. this could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. also, due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we have experienced, and may experience in the future, increased insurance retention levels and increased premiums or unavailability of insurance. as we assume more risk for insurance through higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in our insurance reserves and expense. despite our efforts, we may incur additional liability under environmental laws in excess of amounts presently known and accrued. we are a potentially responsible party at many sites under cercla, which provides for the remediation of contaminated facilities and imposes strict, joint and several liability for the cost of remediation on current owners and operators of a facility at which there has been a release or a threatened release of a hazardous substance. cercla liability also extends to parties who were site owners and operators at the time hazardous substances were disposed, and on persons who arrange for the disposal of such substances at the facility (e.g., generators of the waste and transporters who selected the disposal site). hundreds of substances are defined as hazardous under cercla and their presence, even in minute amounts, can result in substantial liability. notwithstanding our efforts to comply with applicable environmental laws, we may have additional liability under environmental laws in excess of our current reserves because, among other things, hazardous substances may be present in waste collected by us or disposed of in our landfills (or in waste collected, transported or disposed of in the past by companies we have acquired), environmental laws may change, or there may be adverse environmental conditions that develop or were otherwise previously unknown to us. for example, during 2012 through 2014, we recorded an aggregate of approximately $400 million in charges relating to environmental remediation at our closed landfill in bridgeton, missouri. actual costs for liabilities at bridgeton or other sites could be significantly greater than amounts we have accrued for these purposes. environmental liabilities in excess of our current reserves could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 21 table of contents we have substantial indebtedness, which may limit our financial flexibility. as of december 31, 2017 , we had approximately $8.3 billion in principal value of debt and capital leases outstanding. this amount of indebtedness and our debt service requirements may limit our financial flexibility to access additional capital and make capital expenditures and other investments in our business, to withstand economic downturns and interest rate increases, to plan for or react to changes in our business and our industry, and to comply with the financial and other covenants of our debt instruments. further, our ability to comply with these financial and other covenants may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions or other events that are beyond our control. if we do not comply with these covenants, we may be required to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, reducing or eliminating dividends or stock repurchases, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of our existing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. we may be unable to maintain our credit ratings or execute our financial strategy. our ability to execute our financial strategy depends in part on our ability to maintain investment grade ratings on our debt. the credit rating process is contingent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our investment grade ratings in the future. if we were unable to do so, our interest expense would increase and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms may be adversely affected. our financial strategy also depends on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to reinvest in our existing business, fund internal growth, acquire other solid waste businesses, pay dividends, repurchase stock, and take other actions to enhance shareholder value. we cannot assure you that we will succeed in executing our broad-based pricing initiatives, that we will generate sufficient cash flow to execute our financial strategy, that we will be able to pay cash dividends at our present rate, or increase them, or that we will be able to continue our share repurchase program. currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. we are and will continue to be involved in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of our business. many of these matters raise complicated factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties. the timing of the final resolutions to lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings is uncertain. further, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments and adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for example, we incur costs to defend against litigation brought by government agencies and private parties who allege we are in violation of our permits and applicable environmental laws and regulations, or who assert claims alleging nuisance, environmental damage, personal injury or property damage. as a result, we may be required to pay fines or judgments or implement corrective measures, or we may have our permits and licenses modified or revoked. a significant judgment against us, the loss of a significant permit or license, or the imposition of a significant fine could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we establish accruals for our estimates of the costs associated with lawsuits, regulatory, governmental and other legal proceedings. we could underestimate such accruals. such shortfalls could result in significant unanticipated charges to income. we may be unable to manage our growth effectively. our growth strategy places significant demands on our financial, operational and management resources. to continue our growth, we may need to add administrative, managerial and other personnel, and may need to make additional investments in operations and systems. we cannot assure you that we will be able to find and train qualified personnel, or do so on a timely basis, or to expand or otherwise modify our operations and systems to the extent, and in the time, required. we may be unable to execute our acquisition growth strategy. our ability to execute our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to identify and acquire desirable acquisition candidates and on our ability to successfully integrate acquired operations into our business. the integration of our operations with those of acquired companies may present significant challenges to our management. in addition, competition for acquisition candidates may prevent us from acquiring certain acquisition candidates. thus, we cannot assure you that: desirable acquisition candidates exist or will be identified; we will be able to acquire any of the candidates identified; we will effectively integrate and manage companies we acquire; or any acquisitions will be profitable or accretive to our earnings. if any of these factors force us to alter our growth strategy, our growth prospects could be adversely affected. 22 table of contents businesses we acquire may have undisclosed liabilities. our due diligence investigations of acquisition candidates may fail to discover certain undisclosed liabilities. if we acquire a company having undisclosed liabilities such as environmental, remediation or contractual liabilities, as a successor owner we may be responsible for such undisclosed liabilities. we try to minimize our exposure to such liabilities by conducting due diligence, by obtaining indemnification from each seller of the acquired companies, by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase price as security for the indemnification and by acquiring only specified assets. however, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain indemnification or that any indemnification obtained will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any undisclosed liabilities arising from our acquisitions. our consolidated financial statements are based on estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap and necessarily include amounts based on management's estimates. actual results may differ from these amounts. significant items requiring management to make subjective or complex judgments that are inherently uncertain include the recoverability of long-lived assets, the depletion and amortization of landfill development costs, accruals for final capping, closure and post-closure costs, valuation allowances for accounts receivable and deferred tax assets, liabilities for potential litigation, claims and assessments, and liabilities for environmental remediation, multiemployer pension plans, employee benefit plans, deferred taxes, uncertain tax positions, insurance and our estimates of the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in any acquisition. we cannot assure you that the liabilities recorded for items such as these will be adequate to cover the costs we ultimately will face. the introduction of new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our reported results of operations. complying with new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our results of operations or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our results of operations or financial conditions in future periods. we may be subject to workforce influences, including work stoppages, which could increase our operating costs and disrupt our operations. as of december 31, 2017 , approximately 24% of our workforce was represented by various local labor unions. if our unionized workers were to engage in strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and an increase in our operating costs, which could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additional groups of employees may seek union representation in the future and, if successful, the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements could divert management's attention and result in increased operating costs. if a greater percentage of our workforce becomes unionized, our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted due to the potential for increased operating costs. our obligation to fund multiemployer pension plans to which we contribute, or our withdrawal from such plans, may have an adverse effect on us. we contribute to 25 multiemployer pension plans under collective bargaining agreements (cbas) covering union-represented employees. approximately 19% of our total current employees participate in such multiemployer plans. we do not administer these plans and generally are not represented on the boards of trustees of these plans. the pension protection act enacted in 2006 (the ppa) requires under-funded pension plans to improve their funding ratios. based on the information available to us, we believe that some of the multiemployer plans to which we contribute are either critical or endangered as those terms are defined in the ppa. we cannot presently determine the amount of additional funding, if any, we may be required to make to these plans. however, plan assessments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows for a given period. further, under current law, upon the termination of a multiemployer pension plan, or in the event of a withdrawal by us (which we consider from time to time) or a mass withdrawal of contributing employers (each, a withdrawal event), we would be required to make payments to the plan for our proportionate share of the plan's unfunded vested liabilities. we cannot assure you that there will not be a withdrawal event with respect to any of the multiemployer pension plans to which we contribute or that, in the event of such a withdrawal event, the amounts we would be required to contribute would not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for additional discussion and detail regarding multiemployer pension plans see, note 11, employee benefit plans, to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k. 23 table of contents the costs of providing for pension benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in pension fund values and fluctuating actuarial assumptions, and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. we sponsor a defined benefit pension plan that is funded with trustee assets invested in a diversified portfolio of debt and equity securities. our costs for providing such benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in the market value of plan assets. our pension expenses and related funding requirements are also subject to various actuarial calculations and assumptions, which may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, interest rates and other factors. a significant increase in our pension obligations and funding requirements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects. our future success depends on the continued contributions of several key employees and officers. the loss of the services of key employees and officers, whether such loss is through resignation or other causes, or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects. our strategy includes an increasing dependence on technology in our operations; if any of our key technology fails, our business could be adversely affected. our operations are increasingly dependent on technology. our information technology systems are critical to our ability to drive profitable growth through differentiation, continue the implementation of standardized processes and deliver a consistent customer experience. one of the five pillars of our strategy is to grow through enabling our customers to do business with us through more channels and with better access to information and, accordingly, we have made substantial investment in our e-commerce platform. problems with the operation of the information or communication technology systems we use could adversely affect, or temporarily disable, all or a portion of our operations. inabilities and delays in implementing new systems can also affect our ability to realize projected or expected revenue or cost savings. additionally, any systems failures could impede our ability to timely collect and report financial results in accordance with applicable laws. a cyber security incident could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers. we use information technology, including computer and information networks, in substantially all aspects of our business operations. we also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our employees and our customers. such uses give rise to cyber security risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers' personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about us and our business partners. we also rely on a payment card industry compliant third party to protect our customers' credit card information. while we pursue our strategy to grow through acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, we are also expanding and improving our information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cyber security risk. if we fail to assess and identify cyber security risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventive measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability and competitive disadvantage. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 65 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our major market risk exposure of our financial instruments is changing interest rates in the united states and fluctuations in libor. we intend to manage interest rate risk through the use of a combination of fixed and floating rate debt. the carrying value of our variable rate debt approximates fair value because interest rates are variable and, accordingly, approximates current market rates for instruments with similar risk and maturities. the fair value of our debt is determined as of the balance sheet date and is subject to change. the table below provides information about certain of our market-sensitive financial instruments and constitutes a forward-looking statement. expected maturity date 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 thereafter total fair value as of december 31, 2017 fixed rate debt: amount outstanding (in millions) $ 706.1 $ 656.0 $ 855.7 $ 641.0 $ 855.6 $ 3,420.0 $ 7,134.4 $ 7,635.2 average interest rates 3.8 % 5.5 % 5.0 % 5.5 % 3.6 % 4.5 % 4.6 % variable rate debt: amount outstanding (in millions) $ $ 165.0 $ 71.2 $ 127.0 $ $ 784.1 $ 1,147.3 $ 1,141.2 average interest rates % 0.3 % 1.1 % 1.1 % % 1.2 % 1.1 % the fixed and variable rate debt amounts above exclude the remaining non-cash discounts, premiums and adjustments to fair value totaling $94.3 million . additionally, during the second half of 2013, we entered into various interest rate swap agreements relative to our 4.750% fixed rate senior notes due in may 2023. the goal was to reduce overall borrowing costs and rebalance our debt portfolio's ratio of fixed to floating interest rates. these swap agreements, which were designated as fair value hedges, have a total notional value of $300.0 million as of december 31, 2017 . our interest rate swap contracts have been authorized pursuant to our policies and procedures. we do not use financial instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives. 65 table of contents during 2017 , we entered into interest rate lock agreements having an aggregate notional amount of $300.0 million with fixed interest rates ranging from 2.170% to 2.418% . during 2016, we also entered into a number of interest rate lock agreements having an aggregate notional amount of $525.0 million with fixed interest rates ranging from 1.900% to 2.280% to manage exposure to fluctuations in interest rates in anticipation of a planned future issuance of senior notes. upon the expected issuance of the senior notes, we will terminate the interest rate locks and settle with our counterparties. as of december 31, 2017 , we had $1,147.3 million of floating rate debt and $300.0 million of floating interest rate swap contracts. if interest rates increased or decreased by 100 basis points on our variable rate debt, annualized interest expense and net cash payments for interest would increase or decrease by approximately $15 million. this analysis does not reflect the effect that interest rates would have on other items, such as new borrowings and the impact on the economy. see note 9, debt, of the notes to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k for further information regarding how we manage interest rate risk. fuel price risk fuel costs represent a significant operating expense. when economically practical, we may enter into new fuel hedges, renew contracts, or engage in other strategies to mitigate market risk. where appropriate, we have implemented a fuel recovery fee that is designed to recover our fuel costs. while we charge fuel recovery fees to a majority of our customers, we are unable to charge such fees to all customers. at current consumption levels, we believe a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel costs by approximately $25 million per year. offsetting these changes in fuel expense would be changes in our fuel recovery fee charged to our customers. at current participation rates, we believe a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel recovery fee by approximately $25 million per year. our operations also require the use of certain petrochemical-based products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of petrochemicals. an increase in the price of petrochemicals could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs. we also are susceptible to increases in indirect fuel recovery fees from our vendors. our fuel costs were $349.8 million in 2017 , or 3.5 % of revenue, compared to $317.0 million in 2016 , or 3.4% of revenue, and $362.4 million in 2015 , or 4.0% of revenue. for additional discussion and detail of our fuel hedges, see note 16, financial instruments , to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k. commodities prices we market recycled products such as old corrugated containers and old newsprint from our recycling centers. market demand for recycled commodities causes volatility in commodity prices. at current volumes and mix of materials, we believe a $10 per ton change in the price of recycled commodities will change annual revenue and operating income by approximately $20 million and $20 million , respectively. revenue from sales of these products in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 was $539.2 million , $420.4 million and $372.0 million , respectively. 66 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors disclosure regarding forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k contains certain forward-looking information about us that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. words such as guidance, expect, will, may, anticipate, plan, estimate, project, intend, should, can, likely, could, outlook and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. among other sections of this form 10-k, the risk factors and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations include forward-looking statements. these statements include statements about our plans, strategies and prospects. forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. these statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of our management and are subject to risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the expectations will prove to be correct. among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements are: general economic and market conditions, including inflation and changes in commodity pricing, fuel, interest rates, labor, risk, health insurance and other variable costs that generally are not within our control, and our exposure to credit and counterparty risk; whether our estimates and assumptions concerning our selected balance sheet accounts, income tax accounts, final capping, closure, post-closure and remediation costs, available airspace, projected costs and expenses related to our landfills and property and equipment, fair values of acquired assets and liabilities assumed in our acquisitions, and labor, fuel rates and economic and inflationary trends, turn out to be correct or appropriate; competition and demand for services in the solid waste industry; price increases to our customers, which may not be adequate to offset the impact of increased costs, including labor, third-party disposal and fuel, and may cause us to lose volume; our ability to manage growth and execute our growth strategy; our compliance with, and future changes in, environmental and flow control regulations and our ability to obtain approvals from regulatory agencies in connection with operating and expanding our landfills; the impact on us of our substantial indebtedness, including on our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms to finance our operations and growth strategy and to operate within the limitations imposed by financing arrangements; our ability to retain our investment grade ratings for our debt; our dependence on key personnel; our dependence on technology in our operations; our dependence on large, long-term collection, transfer and disposal contracts; the capital intensive nature of our business, which may consume cash in excess of cash flow from operations; exposure to environmental liabilities or remediation requirements, to the extent not adequately covered by insurance, which could result in substantial expenses; risks associated with undisclosed liabilities of acquired businesses; risks associated with pending and future legal proceedings, including litigation, audits or investigations brought by or before any governmental body; severe weather conditions, including those brought about by climate change, which could impair our financial results by causing increased costs, loss of revenue, reduced operational efficiency or disruptions to our operations; compliance with existing and future legal and regulatory requirements, including changes relating to per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (commonly referred to as pfas) and other chemicals of emerging concern, and limitations or bans on disposal of certain types of wastes or on the transportation of waste, which could limit our ability to conduct or grow our business, increase our costs to operate or require additional capital expenditures; safety and operational risks, including the risk of personal injury to our employees or third parties; potential increases in our costs if we are required to provide additional funding to any multiemployer pension fund to which we contribute or if a withdrawal event occurs with respect to any such fund; 15 table of contents the negative impact on our operations of union organizing campaigns, work stoppages or labor shortages; the negative effect that trends toward requiring recycling, waste reduction at the source and prohibiting the disposal of certain types of wastes could have on volumes of waste going to landfills; changes by the financial accounting standards board or other accounting regulatory bodies to generally accepted accounting principles or policies; the impact of u.s. and international tax laws and regulations on our business; a cyber-security incident that could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers and employees; and acts of war, riots or terrorism, including the continuing war on terrorism, as well as actions taken or to be taken by the united states or other governments as a result of further acts or threats of terrorism, and the impact of these acts on economic, financial and social conditions in the united states. the risks included here are not exhaustive. refer to the risk factors in this item 1a for further discussion regarding our exposure to risks. you should be aware that any forward-looking statement in this form 10-k and the documents incorporated herein by reference or elsewhere, speaks only as of the date on which we make it. additionally, new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all such risk factors, or to assess the impact such risk factors might have on our business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. you should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement. except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, we undertake no obligation to update or publish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this form 10-k and the documents incorporated by reference, as the case may be, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. general economic conditions can directly and adversely affect our operating results. our business is directly affected by changes in national and general economic factors and overall economic activity that are outside of our control, including consumer confidence and interest rates. a weak economy generally results in decreases in volumes of waste generated, which adversely affects our revenues. in addition, we have a relatively high fixed-cost structure, which is difficult to adjust quickly to match declining waste volume levels. consumer uncertainty and the loss of consumer confidence may decrease overall economic activity and thereby limit the amount of services we provide. additionally, a decline in waste volumes may result in increased competitive pricing pressure and increased customer turnover, resulting in lower revenue and increased operating costs. operating in an environment of worsening economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. further, recovery in the solid waste industry historically has lagged behind recovery in the general economy. accordingly, we cannot assure you that an improvement in general economic conditions will result in an immediate, or any, improvement in our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. weakness in the u.s. economy may expose us to credit risk for amounts due from governmental entities, large national accounts, industrial customers and others. weakness in the u.s. economy reduces the amount of taxes collected by various governmental entities. we provide services to a number of these entities, including numerous municipalities. these governmental entities may suffer financial difficulties resulting from a decrease in tax revenue and may ultimately be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us. in addition, weakness in the economy may cause other customers, including our large national accounts, or industrial or energy services clients, to suffer financial difficulties and ultimately to be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us. this could negatively impact our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the waste industry is highly competitive and includes competitors that may have greater financial and operational resources, flexibility to reduce prices or other competitive advantages that could make it difficult for us to compete effectively. we principally compete with large national waste management companies, numerous municipalities, and numerous regional and local companies. competition for collection accounts is primarily based on the quality of services and/or price. competition for disposal business is primarily based on price, geographic location and quality of operations. one of our competitors may have greater financial and operational resources than we do. further, many counties and municipalities that operate their own waste collection and disposal facilities have the benefits of tax revenue and greater opportunities for tax-exempt financing. our ability to obtain solid waste volume for our landfills also may be limited by the fact that some major collection operations also own or operate landfills to which they send their waste. in certain markets in which we do not own or operate a landfill, our collection operations may have difficulty competing effectively. if we were to lose market share or if we 16 table of contents were to lower prices to address competitive issues, it could negatively impact our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. price increases may not be adequate to offset the effect of increased costs and may cause us to lose volume. we seek to secure price increases necessary to offset increased costs, improve our operating margins and earn an appropriate return on our substantial investments in assets such as our landfills. from time to time, our competitors reduce their prices in an effort to expand their market share. contractual, general economic or market-specific conditions also may limit our ability to raise prices. for example, many of our contracts have price adjustment provisions that are tied to an index such as the consumer price index. particularly in a weak u.s. economy, our costs may increase in excess of the increase, if any, in the consumer price index. this may continue to be the case even when the u.s. economy recovers because a recovery in the solid waste industry historically has lagged behind a recovery in the general economy. as a result, we may be unable to offset increases in costs, improve our operating margins and obtain adequate investment returns through price increases. price increases also might cause us to lose volume to lower-cost competitors. increases in the cost of fuel or petrochemicals would increase our operating expenses, and we cannot assure you that we would be able to recover such cost increases from our customers. we depend on fuel purchased in the open market to operate our collection and transfer trucks and other equipment used for collection, transfer and disposal. fuel prices are unpredictable and fluctuate significantly based on events beyond our control, including geopolitical developments, actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries and other oil and gas producers, changes in refinery operations, supply and demand for oil and gas, war, terrorism and unrest in oil-producing countries, adverse weather and regional production patterns. due to contractual or market factors, we may not be able to offset increased fuel costs resulting from such volatility through fuel recovery fees. our fuel costs were $391.4 million in 2018 , or 3.9 % of revenue, compared to $349.8 million in 2017 , or 3.5% of revenue. to manage our exposure to volatility in fuel prices, we have entered into multiple swap agreements whereby we receive or make payments to counter-parties should the price of fuel vary from a specified amount. during 2018 , approximately 6% of our fuel volume purchases were hedged with swap agreements (fuel hedges). all of our fuel hedges settled on or before december 31, 2018 . additionally, we are able to collect fuel recovery fees from some customers. at current consumption levels, a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel costs by approximately $26 million on an annual basis. offsetting these changes in fuel expense would be changes in our fuel recovery fee charged to our customers. at current participation rates, we believe a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel recovery fee by approximately $25 million . a substantial rise or drop in fuel costs could materially affect our revenue and cost of operations. over the last several years, regulations have been adopted mandating changes in the composition of fuels for motor vehicles. the renewable fuel standards that the epa sets annually affect the type of fuel our motor vehicle fleet uses. pursuant to the energy independence and security act of 2007, the epa establishes annual renewable fuel volume requirements for four different categories of renewable fuels (renewable fuel, advanced biofuel, cellulosic biofuel, and biomass-based diesel). these volume requirements set standards for the proportion of refiners' or importers' total fuel volume that must contain renewable fuels (as designated by regulation). the total volume metrics for each year vary based upon a number of factors (e.g., the availability of such fuels), and it is difficult to predict the ultimate quantity that the epa will eventually mandate for future years. these regulations are one of many factors that may affect the cost of the fuel we use. our operations also require the use of products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of petrochemicals. an increase in the price of petrochemicals could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs. petrochemical prices, and hence our operating and capital costs, may be further affected by regulatory efforts to reduce greenhouse gases from the industries that produce such petrochemicals. we are also susceptible to increases in indirect fuel recovery fees from our vendors. fluctuations in prices for recycled commodities that we sell to customers may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we purchase or collect and process recyclable materials such as paper, cardboard, plastics, aluminum and other metals for sale to third parties. our results of operations may be affected by changing prices or market requirements for recyclable materials. the resale and purchase prices of, and market demand for, recyclable materials are volatile due to changes in economic conditions and numerous other factors beyond our control. for instance, in 2017 the chinese government imposed strict limits on the import of recyclable materials, including by restricting the amount of contaminants allowed in imported recycled paper. these limitations decreased the demand for recyclable materials and resulted in lower commodity prices. significant price fluctuations or increased operating costs may affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. approximately 73% of our recycling processing center volume is fiber based and includes occ, onp and other mixed paper. 17 table of contents historically, to manage our exposure to fluctuations in prices for recycled commodities, we have entered into multiple hedging arrangements whereby we receive or make payments to counter-parties should the price of recycled commodities vary from a specified amount or range. during 2017, we entered into multiple agreements related to forecasted occ sales, all of which expired in 2018. at current volumes and mix of materials, we believe a $10 per ton change in the price of recycled commodities will change annual revenue and operating income by approximately $18 million and $18 million , respectively, on an annual basis. accordingly, a substantial rise or drop in recycled commodity prices could materially affect our revenue and cost of operations. although we have entered into hedging agreements to help offset volatility in recycled commodity prices in the past, we cannot provide assurance that we will enter into these agreements in the future. adverse weather conditions, including those brought about by climate change, may limit our operations and increase the costs of collection and disposal. our collection and landfill operations could be adversely impacted by extended periods of inclement weather, or by increased severity of weather and climate extremes resulting from climate change, some of which we may already be experiencing. recent studies suggest that global warming is occurring faster than previously projected, with the epa projecting a 3 to 12 fahrenheit temperature increase in the united states by the end of the century. in addition to sea level rise, this temperature increase is expected to result in more severe droughts, floods, and other extreme weather events. any of these factors could increase the volume of waste collected under our existing contracts (without corresponding compensation), interfere with collection, transfer station and landfill operations, delay the development of landfill capacity or reduce the volume of waste generated by our customers. in addition, adverse weather conditions may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect our operating results in the affected regions during those periods. the solid waste industry is a capital-intensive industry and our capital expenditures may exceed current expectations, which could require us to obtain additional funding for our operations or impair our ability to grow our business. our ability to remain competitive and to grow our business largely depends on our cash flow from operations and access to capital. if our capital efficiency programs cannot offset the effect of inflation and business growth, it may be necessary to increase the amount we spend. additionally, if we make acquisitions or further expand our operations, the amount we spend on capital, capping, closure, post-closure, environmental remediation and other items will increase. our cash needs also will increase if the expenditures for capping, closure, post-closure and remediation activities increase above our current estimates, which may occur over a long period due to changes in federal, state or local government requirements and other factors beyond our control. increases in expenditures would negatively impact our cash flows. we may be unable to obtain or maintain required permits or to expand existing permitted capacity of our landfills, which could decrease our revenue and increase our costs. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain the permits required for our operations because permits to operate new landfills and transfer stations, or to expand the permitted capacity of existing landfills, have become more difficult and expensive to obtain and maintain. permits often take years to obtain as a result of numerous hearings and compliance requirements with regard to zoning, environmental and other regulations. these permits are also often subject to resistance from citizen or other groups and other political pressures. local communities and citizen groups, adjacent landowners, governmental agencies and others may oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we may need, allege violations of the permits under which we currently operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. such actions could also create risks related to our reputation, which may limit our ability to do business. responding to these challenges has at times increased our costs and extended the time associated with establishing new landfills and transfer stations and expanding existing landfills. in addition, failure to receive regulatory and zoning approval may prohibit us from establishing new landfills or transfer stations or expanding existing landfills. our failure to obtain the required permits to operate our landfills and transfer stations could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, we may have to dispose collected waste at landfills operated by our competitors or haul the waste long distances at a higher cost to one of our other landfills, either of which could significantly increase our waste disposal costs. if we do not appropriately estimate landfill capping, closure, post-closure and remediation costs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. a landfill must be closed and capped, and post-closure maintenance commenced, once the landfill's permitted capacity is reached and additional capacity is not authorized. further, we undertake remediation activities at some of our solid waste facilities. we have significant financial obligations relating to capping, closure, post-closure and remediation costs at our existing owned or operated landfills, and will have material financial obligations with respect to any future owned or operated landfills. we establish accruals for the estimated costs associated with capping, closure, post-closure and remediation 18 table of contents obligations. we could underestimate such costs, and our financial obligations for capping, closure, post-closure or remediation costs could exceed the amounts accrued or amounts otherwise receivable pursuant to trust funds established for this purpose. additionally, if a landfill must be closed earlier than expected or its remaining airspace is reduced for any other reason, the accruals for capping, closure, post-closure and remediation could be required to be accelerated. if our capping, closure, post-closure or remediation costs exceed the amounts accrued, or if such accruals are required to be accelerated, this could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. alternatives to landfill disposal could reduce our disposal volumes and cause our revenues and operating results to decline. most of the states in which we operate landfills require counties and municipalities to formulate comprehensive plans to reduce the volume of solid waste deposited in landfills through waste planning, composting, recycling or other programs. some state and local governments mandate waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of wastes, such as yard waste, at landfills. further, many of our customers voluntarily are diverting waste to alternatives to landfill disposal, such as recycling and composting, while also working to reduce the amount of waste they generate. many of the largest companies in the u.s. are setting zero-waste goals in which they strive to send no waste to landfills. although such actions help to protect our environment and reduce the impact of waste on climate change, they have reduced, and will in the future reduce, the volume of waste going to landfills and may affect the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal. accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to operate our landfills at their current volumes or charge current prices for landfill disposal services due to possible decreases in demand for such services. if we cannot expand our service offerings and grow lines of business to service waste streams that do not go to landfills and to provide services for customers that wish to reduce waste entirely, this could have a negative effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. further, even if we can develop such service offerings and lines of business, disposal alternatives nonetheless could have a negative effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the possibility of landfill and transfer station site development projects, or expansion projects not being completed or certain other events could result in material charges to income. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we capitalize certain expenditures relating to development, expansion and other projects. if a facility or operation is permanently shut down or determined to be impaired, or a development, expansion or other project is not completed or is determined to be impaired, we will charge against earnings any unamortized capitalized expenditures relating to such facility or project that we are unable to recover through sale, transfer or otherwise. we also carry a significant amount of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheets, which we must assess for impairment annually, and more frequently in the case of certain triggering events. we may incur charges against earnings in accordance with this policy, or other events may cause impairments. such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. the business and assets we operate expose us to safety, operational and other risks, including the risk of personal injury to our employees or third parties. the provision of waste collection, transfer, disposal, recycling and energy services, including the operation of landfills, cng fueling stations, a substantial fleet of trucks and other waste-related assets, involves risks. these risks include, among others, the risk of truck accidents, equipment defects, malfunctions and failures, improper use of dangerous equipment, the release of hazardous substances, fire and explosion, any of which could result in environmental liability, personal injury, loss of life, business interruption or property damage or destruction. while we carry insurance to cover many contingencies, and seek to minimize our exposure to these risks through maintenance, training and compliance programs, any substantial losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to costly environmental regulations and flow-control regulations that may affect our operating margins, restrict our operations and subject us to additional liability. complying with laws and regulations governing the collection, treatment, storage, transfer and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and materials, air quality and emissions of greenhouse gases, water quality and the remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances is costly. laws and regulations often require us to enhance or replace our equipment and to modify landfill operations or initiate final closure of a landfill. we cannot assure you that we will be able to implement price increases sufficient to offset the costs of complying with these laws and regulations. in addition, environmental regulatory changes, including those relating to per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (commonly referred to as pfas) and other chemicals of emerging concern, could accelerate or increase expenditures for capping, closure, post-closure and environmental and remediation activities at solid waste facilities and obligate us to spend sums in addition to those presently accrued for such purposes, which could have a negative effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. our collection, transfer, and landfill operations are and will continue to be affected by state or local laws or regulations that restrict the transportation of solid waste across state, county or other jurisdictional lines or that direct the flow of waste to a 19 table of contents specified facility or facilities. such laws and regulations could negatively affect our operations, resulting in declines in landfill volumes and increased costs of alternate disposal. regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could impose costs on our operations, the magnitude of which we cannot yet estimate. efforts to curtail the emission of greenhouse gases and to ameliorate the effects of climate change continue to progress. our landfill operations emit anthropogenic methane, identified as a greenhouse gas, and our vehicle fleet emits, among other things, carbon dioxide, which also is a greenhouse gas. conventional wisdom still suggests that passage of comprehensive, federal climate change legislation is highly unlikely. nonetheless, should comprehensive federal climate change legislation be enacted, we expect it to impose costs on our operations, the materiality of which we cannot predict. absent comprehensive federal legislation to control greenhouse gas emissions, the epa is moving ahead administratively under its existing clean air act authority. the epa is compelled to issue rules by the u.s. supreme court's april 2007 massachusetts v. epa ruling that greenhouse gases are pollutants for purposes of the clean air act and the epa's december 2009 finding that continued emissions of greenhouse gases endanger human health and welfare. with respect to our light- and heavy-duty vehicle fleet, the epa has since finalized regulations limiting greenhouse gas emissions and increasing fuel economy standards. the epa and the nhtsa have finalized such regulations applicable to heavy-duty vehicles through model-year 2018 and to light-duty vehicles through model-year 2025. on august 16, 2016, the epa and the nhtsa issued additional regulations that would impose more stringent standards for heavy-duty vehicles through model-year 2027. federal efforts to curtail greenhouse gas emissions and to increase the fuel efficiency of light-duty and heavy-duty vehicles could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. with regard to greenhouse gas emissions from our landfills, on july 14, 2016, the epa issued amendments to its regulations that require large landfills that commenced construction, reconstruction or modification on or after july 17, 2014 to capture additional landfill gas to reduce emissions of methane and certain non-methane gases, which are recognized as greenhouse gases. in a separate action finalized that same day, the epa issued updates to its 1996 emission guidelines to reduce emissions of landfill gas from existing active landfills. both actions are part of the obama administration's climate action plan - strategy to reduce methane emissions. these regulations may require our landfills to deploy more stringent emission controls and monitoring systems, with resulting capital or operating costs. the application of these or other greenhouse gas regulations to our landfills could have a material adverse effect on our landfill operations and on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may have environmental liabilities that are not covered by our insurance. changes in insurance markets also may impact our financial results. we may incur environmental liabilities arising from our operations or properties. we maintain high deductibles for our environmental liability insurance coverage. if we were to incur substantial liability for environmental damage, our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover such liability. this could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. also, due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we have experienced, and may experience in the future, increased insurance retention levels and increased premiums or unavailability of insurance. as we assume more risk for insurance through higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in our insurance reserves and expense. despite our efforts, we may incur additional liability under environmental laws in excess of amounts presently known and accrued. we are a potentially responsible party at many sites under cercla, which provides for the remediation of contaminated facilities and imposes strict, joint and several liability for the cost of remediation on current owners and operators of a facility at which there has been a release or a threatened release of a hazardous substance. cercla liability also extends to parties who were site owners and operators at the time hazardous substances were disposed, and on persons who arrange for the disposal of such substances at the facility (e.g., generators of the waste and transporters who selected the disposal site). hundreds of substances are defined as hazardous under cercla and their presence, even in minute amounts, can result in substantial liability. notwithstanding our efforts to comply with applicable environmental laws, we may have additional liability under environmental laws in excess of our current reserves because, among other things, hazardous substances may be present in waste collected by us or disposed of in our landfills (or in waste collected, transported or disposed of in the past by companies we have acquired), environmental laws may change, or there may be adverse environmental conditions that develop or were otherwise previously unknown to us. for example, during 2012 through 2014, we recorded an aggregate of approximately $400 million in charges relating to environmental remediation at our closed landfill in bridgeton, missouri. actual costs for liabilities at bridgeton or other sites could be significantly greater than amounts we have accrued for these purposes. environmental 20 table of contents liabilities in excess of our current reserves could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. we have substantial indebtedness, which may limit our financial flexibility. as of december 31, 2018 , we had approximately $8.4 billion in principal value of debt and capital leases outstanding. this amount of indebtedness and our debt service requirements may limit our financial flexibility to access additional capital and make capital expenditures and other investments in our business, to withstand economic downturns and interest rate increases, to plan for or react to changes in our business and our industry, and to comply with the financial and other covenants of our debt instruments. further, our ability to comply with these financial and other covenants may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions or other events that are beyond our control. if we do not comply with these covenants, we may be required to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, reducing or eliminating dividends or stock repurchases, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of our existing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. we may be unable to maintain our credit ratings or execute our financial strategy. our ability to execute our financial strategy depends in part on our ability to maintain investment grade ratings on our debt. the credit rating process is contingent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our investment grade ratings in the future. if we were unable to do so, our interest expense would increase and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms may be adversely affected. our financial strategy also depends on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to reinvest in our existing business, fund internal growth, acquire other solid waste businesses, pay dividends, repurchase stock, and take other actions to enhance shareholder value. we cannot assure you that we will succeed in executing our broad-based pricing initiatives, that we will generate sufficient cash flow to execute our financial strategy, that we will be able to pay cash dividends at our present rate, or increase them, or that we will be able to continue our share repurchase program. currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. we are and will continue to be involved in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings. many of these matters raise complicated factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties. the timing of the final resolutions to lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings is uncertain. further, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments and adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for example, we incur costs to defend against litigation brought by government agencies and private parties who allege we are in violation of our permits and applicable environmental laws and regulations, or who assert claims alleging nuisance, environmental damage, personal injury or property damage. as a result, we may be required to pay fines or judgments or implement corrective measures, or we may have our permits and licenses modified or revoked. a significant judgment against us, the loss of a significant permit or license, or the imposition of a significant fine could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we establish accruals for our estimates of the costs associated with lawsuits, regulatory, governmental and other legal proceedings. we could underestimate such accruals. such shortfalls could result in significant unanticipated charges to income. we may be unable to manage our growth effectively. our growth strategy places significant demands on our financial, operational and management resources. to continue our growth, we may need to add administrative, managerial and other personnel, and may need to make additional investments in operations and systems. we cannot assure you that we will be able to find and train qualified personnel, or do so on a timely basis, or to expand or otherwise modify our operations and systems to the extent, and in the time, required. we may be unable to execute our acquisition growth strategy. our ability to execute our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to identify and acquire desirable acquisition candidates and on our ability to successfully integrate acquired operations into our business. the integration of our operations with those of acquired companies may present significant challenges to our management. in addition, competition for acquisition candidates may prevent us from acquiring certain acquisition candidates. thus, we cannot assure you that: desirable acquisition candidates exist or will be identified; we will be able to acquire any of the candidates identified; we will effectively integrate and manage companies we acquire; or any acquisitions will be profitable or accretive to our earnings. 21 table of contents if any of these factors force us to alter our growth strategy, our growth prospects could be adversely affected. businesses we acquire may have undisclosed liabilities. our due diligence investigations of acquisition candidates may fail to discover certain undisclosed liabilities. if we acquire a company having undisclosed liabilities such as environmental, remediation or contractual liabilities, as a successor owner we may be responsible for such undisclosed liabilities. we try to minimize our exposure to such liabilities by conducting due diligence, by obtaining indemnification from each seller of the acquired companies, by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase price as security for the indemnification and by acquiring only specified assets. however, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain indemnification or that any indemnification obtained will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any undisclosed liabilities arising from our acquisitions. our consolidated financial statements are based on estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap and necessarily include amounts based on management's estimates. actual results may differ from these amounts. significant items requiring management to make subjective or complex judgments that are inherently uncertain include the recoverability of long-lived assets, the depletion and amortization of landfill development costs, accruals for final capping, closure and post-closure costs, valuation allowances for accounts receivable and deferred tax assets, liabilities for potential litigation, claims and assessments, and liabilities for environmental remediation, multiemployer pension plans, employee benefit plans, deferred taxes, uncertain tax positions, insurance and our estimates of the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in any acquisition. we cannot assure you that the liabilities recorded for items such as these will be adequate to cover the costs we ultimately will face. the introduction of new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our reported results of operations. complying with new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our results of operations or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our results of operations or financial conditions in future periods. we may be subject to workforce influences, including work stoppages, which could increase our operating costs and disrupt our operations. as of december 31, 2018 , approximately 24% of our workforce was represented by various local labor unions. if our unionized workers were to engage in strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and an increase in our operating costs, which could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additional groups of employees may seek union representation in the future and, if successful, the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements could divert management's attention and result in increased operating costs. if a greater percentage of our workforce becomes unionized, our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted due to the potential for increased operating costs. our obligation to fund multiemployer pension plans to which we contribute, or our withdrawal from such plans, may have an adverse effect on us. we contribute to 26 multiemployer pension plans under collective bargaining agreements (cbas) covering union-represented employees. approximately 18% of our total current employees participate in such multiemployer plans. we do not administer these plans and generally are not represented on the boards of trustees of these plans. the pension protection act enacted in 2006 (the ppa) requires under-funded pension plans to improve their funding ratios. based on the information available to us, we believe that some of the multiemployer plans to which we contribute are either critical or endangered as those terms are defined in the ppa. we cannot presently determine the amount of additional funding, if any, we may be required to make to these plans. however, plan assessments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows for a given period. further, under current law, upon the termination of a multiemployer pension plan, or in the event of a withdrawal by us (which we consider from time to time) or a mass withdrawal of contributing employers (each, a withdrawal event), we would be required to make payments to the plan for our proportionate share of the plan's unfunded vested liabilities. we cannot assure you that there will not be a withdrawal event with respect to any of the multiemployer pension plans to which we contribute or that, in the event of such a withdrawal event, the amounts we would be required to contribute would not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for additional discussion and detail regarding multiemployer pension plans see note 11, employee benefit plans, to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k. 22 table of contents the costs of providing for pension benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in pension fund values and fluctuating actuarial assumptions, and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. we sponsor a defined benefit pension plan that is funded with trustee assets invested in a diversified portfolio of debt and equity securities. our costs for providing such benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in the market value of plan assets. our pension expenses and related funding requirements are also subject to various actuarial calculations and assumptions, which may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, interest rates and other factors. a significant increase in our pension obligations and funding requirements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects. our future success depends on the continued contributions of several key employees and officers. the loss of the services of key employees and officers, whether through resignation or other causes, or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects. our strategy includes an increasing dependence on technology in our operations. if any of our key technology fails, our business could be adversely affected. our operations are increasingly dependent on technology. our information technology systems are critical to our ability to drive profitable growth through differentiation, continue the implementation of standardized processes and deliver a consistent customer experience. one of the five pillars of our strategy is to grow through enabling our customers to do business with us through more channels and with better access to information and, accordingly, we have made substantial investment in our e-commerce platform. problems with the operation of the information or communication technology systems we use could adversely affect, or temporarily disable, all or a portion of our operations. inabilities and delays in implementing new systems can also affect our ability to realize projected or expected revenue or cost savings. further, any systems failures could impede our ability to timely collect and report financial results in accordance with applicable laws. in addition, emerging technologies that are used to recycle and process waste, as an alternative to disposal of waste in landfills, represent risks, as well as opportunities, to our current business model. a cyber security incident could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers. we use information technology, including computer and information networks, in substantially all aspects of our business operations. we also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our employees and our customers. such uses give rise to cyber security risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers' personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about us and our business partners. we also rely on a payment card industry compliant third party to protect our customers' credit card information. in connection with our strategy to grow through acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, we are also expanding and improving our information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cyber security risk. if we fail to assess and identify cyber security risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventive measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability and competitive disadvantage. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our major market risk exposure of our financial instruments is changing interest rates in the united states and fluctuations in libor. we intend to manage interest rate risk through the use of a combination of fixed and floating rate debt. the carrying value of our variable rate debt approximates fair value because interest rates are variable and, accordingly, approximates current market rates for instruments with similar risk and maturities. the fair value of our debt is determined as of the balance sheet date and is subject to change. 60 table of contents the table below provides information about certain of our market-sensitive financial instruments and constitutes a forward-looking statement. expected maturity date 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 thereafter total fair value as of december 31, 2018 fixed rate debt: amount outstanding (in millions) $ 656.6 $ 855.6 $ 641.4 $ 855.9 $ 581.8 $ 3,619.2 $ 7,210.5 $ 7,429.2 variable rate debt: amount outstanding (in millions) $ 35.0 $ 71.2 $ 127.0 $ $ 336.6 $ 664.9 $ 1,234.7 $ 1,229.2 the fixed and variable rate debt amounts above exclude the remaining non-cash discounts, premiums and adjustments to fair value totaling $107.7 million . during the second half of 2013, we entered into various interest rate swap agreements relative to our 4.750% fixed rate senior notes due in may 2023. the goal was to reduce overall borrowing costs and rebalance our debt portfolio's ratio of fixed to floating interest rates. these swap agreements, which were designated as fair value hedges, have a total notional value of $300.0 million as of december 31, 2018 . our interest rate swap contracts have been authorized pursuant to our policies and procedures. we do not use financial instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives. as of december 31, 2018 , our interest rate lock agreements had an aggregate notional value of $725.0 million with fixed interest rates ranging from 1.900% to 3.250% . as of december 31, 2017 , our interest rate lock agreements had an aggregate notional value of $825.0 million with fixed interest rates ranging from 1.900% to 2.418% . we entered into these transactions to manage exposure to fluctuations in interest rates in anticipation of planned future issuances of senior notes in 2019 and 2020. upon the expected issuance of senior notes, we will terminate the interest rate locks and settle with our counterparties. as of december 31, 2018 , we had $1,234.7 million of floating rate debt and $300.0 million of floating interest rate swap contracts. if interest rates increased or decreased by 100 basis points on our variable rate debt, annualized interest expense and net cash payments for interest would increase or decrease by approximately $15 million. this analysis does not reflect the effect that interest rates would have on other items, such as new borrowings and the impact on the economy. see note 9, debt, of the notes to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k for further information regarding how we manage interest rate risk. fuel price risk fuel costs represent a significant operating expense. when economically practical, we may enter into new fuel hedges, renew contracts, or engage in other strategies to mitigate market risk. while we charge fuel recovery fees to a majority of our customers, we are unable to charge such fees to all customers. at current consumption levels, we believe a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel costs by approximately $26 million per year. offsetting these changes in fuel expense would be changes in our fuel recovery fee charged to our customers. at current participation rates, we believe a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel recovery fee by approximately $25 million per year. our operations also require the use of certain petrochemical-based products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of petrochemicals. an increase in the price of petrochemicals could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs. we also are susceptible to increases in indirect fuel recovery fees from our vendors. our fuel costs were $391.4 million in 2018 , or 3.9 % of revenue, compared to $349.8 million in 2017 , or 3.5% of revenue, and $317.0 million in 2016 , or 3.4% of revenue. previously, we have entered into fuel hedge swap agreements designated as cash flow hedges to manage our exposure to changes in diesel fuel prices. as of december 31, 2018 , all of our fuel hedges have settled, and we have not entered into any additional hedges. see note 17, financial instruments , to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k for additional discussion. 61 table of contents commodities price risk we market recovered materials such as old corrugated containers and old newsprint from our recycling processing centers. changes in market supply and demand for recycled commodities causes volatility in commodity prices. we have previously entered into derivative instruments such as swaps and costless collars designated as cash flow hedges to manage our exposure to changes in prices of these commodities. at current volumes and mix of materials, we believe a $10 per ton change in the price of recycled commodities will change annual revenue and operating income by approximately $18 million and $18 million , respectively. as of december 31, 2018 , all of our recycling commodity hedges settled, and we have not entered into any additional derivative instruments. 62 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors disclosure regarding forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k contains certain forward-looking information about us that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. words such as guidance, expect, will, may, anticipate, plan, estimate, project, intend, should, can, likely, could, outlook and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. among other sections of this form 10-k, the risk factors and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations include forward-looking statements. these statements include statements about our plans, strategies and prospects. forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. these statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of our management and are subject to risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the expectations will prove to be correct. among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-looking statements are: general economic and market conditions, including inflation and changes in fuel, interest rates, labor, risk, health insurance and other variable costs that generally are not within our control, and our exposure to credit and counterparty risk; fluctuations in prices for recycled commodities that we sell to customers; whether our estimates and assumptions concerning our selected balance sheet accounts, income tax accounts, final capping, closure, post-closure and remediation costs, available airspace, projected costs and expenses related to our landfills and property and equipment, fair values of acquired assets and liabilities assumed in our acquisitions, and labor, fuel rates and economic and inflationary trends, turn out to be correct or appropriate; competition and demand for services in the solid waste and recycling industry; price increases to our customers, which may not be adequate to offset the impact of increased costs, including labor, third-party disposal and fuel, and may cause us to lose volume; our ability to manage growth and execute our growth strategy; our compliance with, and future changes in, environmental and flow control regulations and our ability to obtain approvals from regulatory agencies in connection with operating and expanding our landfills; the impact on us of our substantial indebtedness, including on our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms to finance our operations and growth strategy and to operate within the limitations imposed by financing arrangements; our ability to retain our investment grade ratings for our debt; our dependence on key personnel; our dependence on large, long-term collection, transfer and disposal contracts; the capital intensive nature of our business, which may consume cash in excess of cash flow from operations; exposure to environmental liabilities or remediation requirements, to the extent not adequately covered by insurance, which could result in substantial expenses; risks associated with undisclosed liabilities of acquired businesses; risks associated with pending and future legal proceedings, including litigation, audits or investigations brought by or before any governmental body; severe weather conditions, including those brought about by climate change, which could impair our financial results by causing increased costs, loss of revenue, reduced operational efficiency or disruptions to our operations; compliance with existing and future legal and regulatory requirements, including changes relating to per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (commonly referred to as pfas) and other chemicals of emerging concern, and limitations or bans on disposal of certain types of wastes or on the transportation of waste, which could limit our ability to conduct or grow our business, increase our costs to operate or require additional capital expenditures; safety and operational risks, including the risk of personal injury to our employees or third parties; 16 table of contents potential increases in our costs if we are required to provide additional funding to any multiemployer pension plan to which we contribute or if a withdrawal event (including our voluntary withdrawal, which we consider from time to time, or the mass withdrawal of all contributing employers from any underfunded multiemployer pension plan) occurs with respect to any such plan; the negative impact on our operations of union organizing campaigns, work stoppages or labor shortages; the negative effect that trends toward requiring recycling, waste reduction at the source and prohibiting the disposal of certain types of wastes could have on volumes of waste going to landfills; changes by the financial accounting standards board or other accounting regulatory bodies to generally accepted accounting principles or policies; the impact of u.s. and international tax laws and regulations on our business; risks related to interruptions and breaches of our information technology systems that could adversely affect, or temporarily disable, all or a portion of our operations or have a negative effect on our infrastructure; the negative impact that a cyber-security incident could have on our business and our relationships with customers and employees; and acts of war, riots or terrorism, including the continuing war on terrorism, as well as actions taken or to be taken by the united states or other governments as a result of further acts or threats of terrorism, and the impact of these acts on economic, financial and social conditions in the united states. the risks included here are not exhaustive. refer to the risk factors in this item 1a for further discussion regarding our exposure to risks. you should be aware that any forward-looking statement in this form 10-k and the documents incorporated herein by reference or elsewhere, speaks only as of the date on which we make it. additionally, new risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all such risk factors, or to assess the impact such risk factors might have on our business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. you should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement. except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, we undertake no obligation to update or publish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this form 10-k and the documents incorporated by reference, as the case may be, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. general economic conditions can directly and adversely affect our operating results. our business is directly affected by changes in national and general economic factors and overall economic activity that are outside of our control, including consumer confidence and interest rates. a weak economy generally results in decreases in volumes of waste generated, which adversely affects our revenues. in addition, we have a relatively high fixed-cost structure, which is difficult to adjust quickly to match declining waste volume levels. consumer uncertainty and the loss of consumer confidence may decrease overall economic activity and thereby limit the amount of services we provide. additionally, a decline in waste volumes may result in increased competitive pricing pressure and increased customer turnover, resulting in lower revenue and increased operating costs. operating in an environment of worsening economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. further, recovery in the solid waste industry historically has lagged behind recovery in the general economy. accordingly, we cannot assure you that an improvement in general economic conditions will result in an immediate, or any, improvement in our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. weakness in the u.s. economy may expose us to credit risk for amounts due from governmental entities, large national accounts, industrial customers and others. weakness in the u.s. economy reduces the amount of taxes collected by various governmental entities. we provide services to a number of these entities, including numerous municipalities. these governmental entities may suffer financial difficulties resulting from a decrease in tax revenue and may ultimately be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us. in addition, weakness in the economy may cause other customers, including our large national accounts, or industrial or environmental services clients, to suffer financial difficulties and ultimately to be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us. this could negatively impact our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 17 table of contents the waste industry is highly competitive and includes competitors that may have greater financial and operational resources, flexibility to reduce prices or other competitive advantages that could make it difficult for us to compete effectively. we principally compete with large national waste management companies, numerous municipalities, and numerous regional and local companies. competition for collection accounts is typically based on the quality of services, ease of doing business and/or price. competition for disposal business is primarily based on geographic location, quality of operations, and price. one of our competitors may have greater financial and operational resources than we do. further, many counties and municipalities that operate their own waste collection and disposal facilities have the benefits of tax revenue and greater opportunities for tax-exempt financing. our ability to obtain solid waste volume for our landfills also may be limited by the fact that some major collection operations also own or operate landfills to which they send their waste. in certain markets in which we do not own or operate a landfill, our collection operations may have difficulty competing effectively. if we were to lose market share or if we were to lower prices to address competitive issues, it could negatively impact our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. price increases may not be adequate to offset the effect of increased costs and may cause us to lose volume. we seek to secure price increases necessary to offset increased costs, improve our operating margins and earn an appropriate return on our substantial investments in assets such as our landfills. from time to time, our competitors reduce their prices in an effort to expand their market share. contractual, general economic or market-specific conditions also may limit our ability to raise prices. for example, many of our contracts have price adjustment provisions that are tied to an index such as the consumer price index. particularly in a weak u.s. economy, our costs may increase in excess of the increase, if any, in the consumer price index. this may continue to be the case even when the u.s. economy recovers because a recovery in the solid waste industry historically has lagged behind a recovery in the general economy. as a result, we may be unable to offset increases in costs, improve our operating margins and obtain adequate investment returns through price increases. price increases also might cause us to lose volume to lower-cost competitors. increases in the cost of fuel or petrochemicals would increase our operating expenses, and we cannot assure you that we would be able to recover such cost increases from our customers. we depend on fuel purchased in the open market to operate our collection and transfer trucks and other equipment used for collection, transfer and disposal. fuel prices are unpredictable and fluctuate significantly based on events beyond our control, including geopolitical developments, actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries and other oil and gas producers, changes in refinery operations, supply and demand for oil and gas, war, terrorism and unrest in oil-producing countries, adverse weather and regional production patterns. due to contractual or market factors, we may not be able to offset increased fuel costs resulting from such volatility through fuel recovery fees. our fuel costs were $347.9 million in 2019, or 3.4% of revenue, compared to $391.4 million in 2018, or 3.9% of revenue. to manage our exposure to volatility in fuel prices, we have entered into multiple swap agreements whereby we receive or make payments to counter-parties should the price of fuel vary from a specified amount. during 2018, approximately 6% of our fuel volume purchases were hedged with swap agreements (fuel hedges). all of our fuel hedges settled on or before december 31, 2018 and we did not enter into any new agreements in 2019. additionally, we are able to collect fuel recovery fees from some customers. at current consumption levels, a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel costs by approximately $26 million on an annual basis. offsetting these changes in fuel expense would be changes in our fuel recovery fee charged to our customers. at current participation rates, we believe a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel recovery fee by approximately $26 million. a substantial rise or drop in fuel costs could materially affect our revenue and cost of operations. over the last several years, regulations have been adopted mandating changes in the composition of fuels for motor vehicles. the renewable fuel standards that the epa sets annually affect the type of fuel our motor vehicle fleet uses. pursuant to the energy independence and security act of 2007, the epa establishes annual renewable fuel volume requirements for four different categories of renewable fuels (renewable fuel, advanced biofuel, cellulosic biofuel, and biomass-based diesel). these volume requirements set standards for the proportion of refiners' or importers' total fuel volume that must contain renewable fuels (as designated by regulation). the total volume metrics for each year vary based upon a number of factors (e.g., the availability of such fuels), and it is difficult to predict the ultimate quantity that the epa will eventually mandate for future years. these regulations are one of many factors that may affect the cost of the fuel we use. our operations also require the use of products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of petrochemicals. an increase in the price of petrochemicals could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs. petrochemical prices, and hence our operating and capital costs, may be further affected by regulatory efforts to reduce greenhouse gases from the industries that produce such petrochemicals. we are also susceptible to increases in fuel recovery fees from our vendors. 18 table of contents fluctuations in prices for recycled commodities that we sell to customers may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we purchase or collect and process recyclable materials such as paper, cardboard, plastics, aluminum and other metals for sale to third parties. our results of operations may be affected by changing prices or market requirements for recyclable materials. the resale and purchase prices of, and market demand for, recyclable materials are volatile due to changes in economic conditions and numerous other factors beyond our control. for instance, in 2017 the chinese government imposed strict limits on the import of recyclable materials, including by restricting the amount of contaminants allowed in imported recycled paper. these limitations significantly decreased the global demand for recyclable materials and resulted in lower commodity prices. significant price fluctuations or increased operating costs may affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in 2019, approximately 79% of our recycling processing center volume was fiber based and included occ, onp and other mixed paper. historically, to manage our exposure to fluctuations in prices for recycled commodities, we have entered into multiple hedging arrangements whereby we receive or make payments to counter-parties should the price of recycled commodities vary from a specified amount or range. during 2017, we entered into multiple agreements related to forecasted occ sales, all of which expired in 2018. we have not entered into any agreements related to forecasted occ sales since 2017. at current volumes and mix of materials, we believe a $10 per ton change in the price of recycled commodities would change annual revenue and operating income by approximately $13 million and $13 million, respectively, on an annual basis. accordingly, a substantial rise or drop in recycled commodity prices could materially affect our revenue and operating income. although we have entered into hedging agreements to help offset volatility in recycled commodity prices in the past, we cannot provide assurance that we will enter into these agreements in the future. adverse weather conditions, including those brought about by climate change, may limit our operations and increase the costs of collection and disposal. our collection and landfill operations could be adversely impacted by extended periods of inclement weather, or by increased severity of weather and climate extremes resulting from climate change, some of which we may already be experiencing. recent studies suggest that global warming is occurring faster than previously projected, with the epa projecting a 3 to 12 fahrenheit temperature increase in the united states by the end of the century. in addition to sea level rise, this temperature increase is expected to result in more severe droughts, floods, and other extreme weather events. any of these factors could increase the volume of waste collected under our existing contracts (without corresponding compensation), interfere with collection, transfer station and landfill operations, delay the development of landfill capacity or reduce the volume of waste generated by our customers. in addition, adverse weather conditions may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect our operating results in the affected regions during those periods. the solid waste industry is a capital-intensive industry and our capital expenditures may exceed current expectations, which could require us to obtain additional funding for our operations or impair our ability to grow our business. our ability to remain competitive and to grow our business largely depends on our cash flow from operations and access to capital. if our capital efficiency programs cannot offset the effect of inflation and business growth, it may be necessary to increase the amount we spend. additionally, if we make acquisitions or further expand our operations, the amount we spend on capital, capping, closure, post-closure, environmental remediation and other items will increase. our cash needs also will increase if the expenditures for capping, closure, post-closure and remediation activities increase above our current estimates, which may occur over a long period due to changes in federal, state or local government requirements and other factors beyond our control. increases in expenditures would negatively impact our cash flows. we may be unable to obtain or maintain required permits or to expand existing permitted capacity of our landfills, which could decrease our revenue and increase our costs. we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain the permits required for our operations because permits to operate new landfills and transfer stations, or to expand the permitted capacity of existing landfills or increase acceptable volume at transfer stations, have become more difficult and expensive to obtain and maintain. permits often take years to obtain as a result of numerous hearings and compliance requirements with regard to zoning, environmental and other regulations. these permits are also often subject to resistance from citizen or other groups and other political pressures. local communities and citizen groups, adjacent landowners, governmental agencies and others may oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we may need, allege violations of the permits under which we currently operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. such actions could also create risks related to our reputation, which may limit our ability to do business. responding to these challenges has at times increased our costs and extended the time associated with establishing new landfills and transfer stations and expanding existing landfills. in addition, failure to receive regulatory and zoning approval may prohibit us from establishing new landfills or transfer stations or expanding existing 19 table of contents landfills. our failure to obtain the required permits to operate our landfills and transfer stations could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, we may have to dispose collected waste at landfills operated by our competitors or haul the waste long distances at a higher cost to one of our other landfills, either of which could significantly increase our waste disposal costs. if we do not appropriately estimate landfill capping, closure, post-closure and remediation costs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. a landfill must be closed and capped, and post-closure maintenance commenced, once the landfill's permitted capacity is reached and additional capacity is not authorized. further, we undertake remediation activities at some of our solid waste facilities. we have significant financial obligations relating to capping, closure, post-closure and remediation costs at our existing owned or operated landfills, and will have material financial obligations with respect to any future owned or operated landfills. we establish accruals for the estimated costs associated with capping, closure, post-closure and remediation obligations. we could underestimate such costs, and our financial obligations for capping, closure, post-closure or remediation costs could exceed the amounts accrued or amounts otherwise receivable pursuant to trust funds established for this purpose. additionally, if a landfill must be closed earlier than expected or its remaining airspace is reduced for any other reason, the accruals for capping, closure, post-closure and remediation could be required to be accelerated. if our capping, closure, post-closure or remediation costs exceed the amounts accrued, or if such accruals are required to be accelerated, this could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. alternatives to landfill disposal could reduce our disposal volumes and cause our revenues and operating results to decline. most of the states in which we operate landfills require counties and municipalities to formulate comprehensive plans to reduce the volume of solid waste deposited in landfills through waste planning, composting, recycling or other programs. some state and local governments mandate waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of wastes, such as yard waste, at landfills. further, many of our customers voluntarily are diverting waste to alternatives to landfill disposal, such as recycling and composting, while also working to reduce the amount of waste they generate. many of the largest companies in the u.s. are setting zero-waste goals in which they strive to send no waste to landfills. although such actions help to protect our environment and reduce the impact of waste on climate change, they have reduced, and will in the future reduce, the volume of waste going to landfills and may affect the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal. accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to operate our landfills at their current volumes or charge current prices for landfill disposal services due to possible decreases in demand for such services. if we cannot expand our service offerings and grow lines of business to service waste streams that do not go to landfills and to provide services for customers that wish to reduce waste entirely, this could have a negative effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. further, even if we can develop such service offerings and lines of business, disposal alternatives nonetheless could have a negative effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the possibility of landfill and transfer station site development projects, or expansion projects not being completed or certain other events could result in material charges to income. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we capitalize certain expenditures relating to development, expansion and other projects. if a facility or operation is permanently shut down or determined to be impaired, or a development, expansion or other project is not completed or is determined to be impaired, we will charge against earnings any unamortized capitalized expenditures relating to such facility or project that we are unable to recover through sale, transfer or otherwise. we also carry a significant amount of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheets, which we must assess for impairment annually, and more frequently in the case of certain triggering events. we may incur charges against earnings in accordance with this policy, or other events may cause impairments. such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. the business and assets we operate expose us to safety, operational and other risks, including the risk of personal injury to our employees or third parties. the provision of waste collection, transfer, disposal, recycling and environmental services, including the operation of landfills, cng fueling stations, a substantial fleet of trucks and other waste-related assets, involves risks. these risks include, among others, the risk of truck accidents, equipment defects, malfunctions and failures, improper use of dangerous equipment, the release of hazardous substances, fire and explosion, any of which could result in environmental liability, personal injury, loss of life, business interruption or property damage or destruction. while we carry insurance to cover many contingencies, and seek to minimize our exposure to these risks through maintenance, training and compliance programs, any substantial losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 20 table of contents we are subject to costly environmental regulations and flow-control regulations that may affect our operating margins, restrict our operations and subject us to additional liability. complying with laws and regulations governing the collection, treatment, storage, transfer and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and materials, air quality and emissions of greenhouse gases, water quality and the remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances is costly. laws and regulations often require us to enhance or replace our equipment and to modify landfill operations or initiate final closure of a landfill. we cannot assure you that we will be able to implement price increases sufficient to offset the costs of complying with these laws and regulations. in addition, environmental regulatory changes, including those relating to per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (commonly referred to as pfas) and other chemicals of emerging concern, could accelerate or increase expenditures for capping, closure, post-closure and environmental and remediation activities at solid waste facilities and obligate us to spend sums in addition to those presently accrued for such purposes, which could have a negative effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. our business is and will continue to be affected by state or local laws or regulations that restrict the transportation of solid waste across state, county or other jurisdictional lines or that direct the flow of waste to a specified facility or facilities. such laws and regulations could negatively affect our operations, resulting in declines in landfill volumes and increased costs of alternate disposal. regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could impose costs on our operations, the magnitude of which we cannot yet estimate. efforts to curtail the emission of greenhouse gases and to ameliorate the effects of climate change continue to progress. our landfill operations emit anthropogenic methane, identified as a greenhouse gas, and our vehicle fleet emits, among other things, carbon dioxide, which also is a greenhouse gas. conventional wisdom still suggests that passage of comprehensive, federal climate change legislation is highly unlikely. nonetheless, should comprehensive federal climate change legislation be enacted, we expect it to impose costs on our operations, the materiality of which we cannot predict. absent comprehensive federal legislation to control greenhouse gas emissions, the epa is moving ahead administratively under its existing clean air act authority. the epa is compelled to issue rules by the u.s. supreme court's april 2007 massachusetts v. epa ruling that greenhouse gases are pollutants for purposes of the clean air act and the epa's december 2009 finding that continued emissions of greenhouse gases endanger human health and welfare. with respect to our light- and heavy-duty vehicle fleet, the epa has since finalized regulations limiting greenhouse gas emissions and increasing fuel economy standards. the epa and the nhtsa have finalized such regulations applicable to light-duty vehicles through model year 2025. in 2018, the epa and the nhtsa proposed to revise the light-duty vehicle standards for model years 2021 through 2024 to make them less stringent; final action on the proposal is anticipated in 2020 but may be challenged in court. on august 16, 2016, the epa and the nhtsa issued additional regulations that would impose more stringent standards for heavy-duty vehicles through model-year 2027. federal efforts to curtail greenhouse gas emissions and to increase the fuel efficiency of light-duty and heavy-duty vehicles could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. with regard to greenhouse gas emissions from our landfills, on july 14, 2016, the epa issued amendments to its regulations that require large landfills that commenced construction, reconstruction or modification on or after july 17, 2014 to capture additional landfill gas to reduce emissions of methane and certain non-methane gases, which are recognized as greenhouse gases. in a separate action finalized that same day, the epa issued updates to its 1996 emission guidelines to reduce emissions of landfill gas from existing active landfills. both actions are part of the obama administration's climate action plan - strategy to reduce methane emissions. the trump administration proposed to reconsider these rules, but its action has been subject to litigation, which is still pending. if these regulations, or an amended version of them eventually goes into effect, they may require our landfills to deploy more stringent emission controls and monitoring systems, with resulting capital or operating costs. the application of these or other greenhouse gas regulations to our landfills could have a material adverse effect on our landfill operations and on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may have environmental liabilities that are not covered by our insurance. changes in insurance markets also may impact our financial results. we may incur environmental liabilities arising from our operations or properties. we maintain high deductibles for our environmental liability insurance coverage. if we were to incur substantial liability for environmental damage, our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover such liability. this could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. also, due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we have experienced, and may experience in the future, increased insurance retention levels and increased premiums or unavailability of insurance. as we assume more risk for insurance through higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in our insurance reserves and expense. 21 table of contents despite our efforts, we may incur additional liability under environmental laws in excess of amounts presently known and accrued. we are a potentially responsible party at many sites under cercla, which provides for the remediation of contaminated facilities and imposes strict, joint and several liability for the cost of remediation on current owners and operators of a facility at which there has been a release or a threatened release of a hazardous substance. cercla liability also extends to parties who were site owners and operators at the time hazardous substances were disposed, and on persons who arrange for the disposal of such substances at the facility (e.g., generators of the waste and transporters who selected the disposal site). hundreds of substances are defined as hazardous under cercla and their presence, even in minute amounts, can result in substantial liability. notwithstanding our efforts to comply with applicable environmental laws, we may have additional liability under environmental laws in excess of our current reserves because, among other things, hazardous substances may be present in waste collected by us or disposed of in our landfills (or in waste collected, transported or disposed of in the past by businesses we have acquired), environmental laws may change, or there may be adverse environmental conditions that develop or were otherwise previously unknown to us. for example, during 2012 through 2014, we recorded an aggregate of approximately $400 million in charges relating to environmental remediation at our closed landfill in bridgeton, missouri. actual costs for liabilities at bridgeton or other sites could be significantly greater than amounts we have accrued for these purposes. environmental liabilities in excess of our current reserves could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. we have substantial indebtedness, which may limit our financial flexibility. as of december 31, 2019, we had approximately $8.8 billion in principal value of debt and finance leases outstanding. this amount of indebtedness and our debt service requirements may limit our financial flexibility to access additional capital and make capital expenditures and other investments in our business, to withstand economic downturns and interest rate increases, to plan for or react to changes in our business and our industry, and to comply with the financial and other covenants of our debt instruments. further, our ability to comply with these financial and other covenants may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions or other events that are beyond our control. if we do not comply with these covenants, we may be required to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, reducing or eliminating dividends or stock repurchases, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of our existing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. we may be unable to maintain our credit ratings or execute our financial strategy. our ability to execute our financial strategy depends in part on our ability to maintain investment grade ratings on our debt. the credit rating process is contingent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our investment grade ratings in the future. if we were unable to do so, our interest expense would increase and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms may be adversely affected. our financial strategy also depends on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to reinvest in our existing business, fund internal growth, acquire other solid waste businesses, pay dividends, repurchase stock, and take other actions to enhance shareholder value. we cannot assure you that we will succeed in executing our broad-based pricing initiatives, that we will generate sufficient cash flow to execute our financial strategy, that we will be able to pay cash dividends at our present rate, or increase them, or that we will be able to continue our share repurchase program. currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. we are and will continue to be involved in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings. many of these matters raise complicated factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties. the timing of the final resolutions to lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings is uncertain. further, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments and adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for example, we incur costs to defend against litigation brought by government agencies and private parties who allege we are in violation of our permits and applicable environmental laws and regulations, or who assert claims alleging nuisance, environmental damage, personal injury or property damage. as a result, we may be required to pay fines or judgments or implement corrective measures, or we may have our permits and licenses modified or revoked. a significant judgment against us, the loss of a significant permit or license, or the imposition of a significant fine could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we establish accruals for our estimates of the costs associated with lawsuits, regulatory, governmental and other legal proceedings. we could underestimate such accruals. such shortfalls could result in significant unanticipated charges to income. 22 table of contents we may be unable to manage our growth effectively. our growth strategy places significant demands on our financial, operational and management resources. to continue our growth, we may need to add administrative, managerial and other personnel, and may need to make additional investments in operations and systems. we cannot assure you that we will be able to find and train qualified personnel, or do so on a timely basis, or to expand or otherwise modify our operations and systems to the extent, and in the time, required. we may be unable to execute our acquisition growth strategy. our ability to execute our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to identify and acquire desirable acquisition candidates and on our ability to successfully integrate acquired operations into our business. the integration of our operations with those of acquired companies may present significant challenges to our management. in addition, competition for acquisition candidates may prevent us from acquiring certain acquisition candidates. thus, we cannot assure you that: desirable acquisition candidates exist or will be identified; we will be able to acquire any of the candidates identified; we will effectively integrate and manage companies we acquire; or any acquisitions will be profitable or accretive to our earnings. if any of these factors force us to alter our growth strategy, our growth prospects could be adversely affected. businesses we acquire may have undisclosed liabilities. our due diligence investigations of acquisition candidates may fail to discover certain undisclosed liabilities. if we acquire a company with undisclosed liabilities such as environmental, remediation or contractual liabilities, as a successor owner we may be responsible for such undisclosed liabilities. we try to minimize our exposure to such liabilities by conducting due diligence, by obtaining indemnification from each seller of the acquired companies, by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase price as security for the indemnification, by obtaining representations and warranties insurance and by acquiring only specified assets. however, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain indemnification or insurance coverage or that any indemnification or insurance coverage obtained will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any undisclosed liabilities arising from our acquisitions. our consolidated financial statements are based on estimates and assumptions that may differ from actual results. our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap and necessarily include amounts based on management's estimates. actual results may differ from these amounts. significant items requiring management to make subjective or complex judgments that are inherently uncertain include the recoverability of long-lived assets, the depletion and amortization of landfill development costs, accruals for final capping, closure and post-closure costs, valuation allowances for accounts receivable and deferred tax assets, liabilities for potential litigation, claims and assessments, and liabilities for environmental remediation, multiemployer pension plans, employee benefit plans, deferred taxes, uncertain tax positions, insurance and our estimates of the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in any acquisition. we cannot assure you that the liabilities recorded for items such as these will be adequate to cover the costs we ultimately will face. the introduction of new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our reported results of operations. complying with new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our results of operations or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our results of operations or financial conditions in future periods. we may be subject to workforce influences, including work stoppages, which could increase our operating costs and disrupt our operations. as of december 31, 2019, approximately 24% of our workforce was covered by collective bargaining agreements. if our unionized workers were to engage in strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and an increase in our operating costs, which could have an adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additional groups of employees may seek union representation in the future and, if successful, the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements could divert management's attention and result in increased operating costs. if a greater percentage of our workforce becomes unionized, our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted due to the potential for increased operating costs. 23 table of contents our obligation to fund multiemployer pension plans to which we contribute, or our withdrawal from such plans, may have an adverse effect on us. we participate in multiemployer pension plans that generally provide retirement benefits to participants of contributing employers. we do not administer these plans and generally are not represented on the boards of trustees of these plans. the pension protection act enacted in 2006 (the ppa) requires under-funded pension plans to improve their funding ratios. based on the information available to us, we believe that some of the multiemployer plans to which we contribute are either critical or endangered as those terms are defined in the ppa. we cannot presently determine the amount of additional funding, if any, we may be required to make to these plans. however, plan assessments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows for a given period. further, under current law, upon the termination of a multiemployer pension plan, or in the event of a withdrawal by us (which we consider from time to time) or a mass withdrawal of contributing employers (each, a withdrawal event), we would be required to make payments to the plan for our proportionate share of the plan's unfunded vested liabilities. we cannot assure you that there will not be a withdrawal event with respect to any of the multiemployer pension plans to which we contribute or that, in the event of such a withdrawal event, the amounts we would be required to contribute would not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for additional discussion and detail regarding multiemployer pension plans see note 12, employee benefit plans, of the notes to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k. the costs of providing for pension benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in pension fund values and fluctuating actuarial assumptions, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we sponsor a defined benefit pension plan that is funded with trustee assets invested in a diversified portfolio of debt and equity securities. our costs for providing such benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in the market value of plan assets. our pension expenses and related funding requirements are also subject to various actuarial calculations and assumptions, which may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, interest rates and other factors. a significant increase in our pension obligations and funding requirements could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects. our future success depends on the continued contributions of several key employees and officers. the loss of the services of key employees and officers, whether through resignation or other causes, or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects. our strategy includes an increasing dependence on technology in our operations. if any of our key technology fails, our business could be adversely affected. our operations are increasingly dependent on technology. our information technology systems are critical to our ability to drive profitable growth through differentiation, continue the implementation of standardized processes and deliver a consistent customer experience. one of the five pillars of our strategy is to grow through enabling our customers to do business with us through more channels and with better access to information and, accordingly, we have made substantial investment in our e-commerce platform. problems with the operation of the information or communication technology systems we use could adversely affect, or temporarily disable, all or a portion of our operations. inabilities and delays in implementing new systems can also affect our ability to realize projected or expected revenue or cost savings. further, any systems failures could impede our ability to timely collect and report financial results in accordance with applicable laws. in addition, emerging technologies that are used to recycle and process waste, as an alternative to disposal of waste in landfills, represent risks, as well as opportunities, to our current business model. a cyber security incident could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers. we use information technology, including computer and information networks, in substantially all aspects of our business operations. we also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our employees and our customers. such uses give rise to cyber security risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers' personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about us and our business partners. we also rely on a payment card industry compliant third party to protect our customers' credit card information. in connection with our strategy to grow through 24 table of contents acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, we are also expanding and improving our information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cyber security risk. if we fail to assess and identify cyber security risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventive measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability and competitive disadvantage. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our major market risk exposure of our financial instruments is changing interest rates in the united states and fluctuations in libor. we intend to manage interest rate risk through the use of a combination of fixed and floating rate debt. the carrying value of our variable rate debt approximates fair value because interest rates are variable and, accordingly, approximates current market rates for instruments with similar risk and maturities. the fair value of our debt is determined as of the balance sheet date and is subject to change. 54 table of contents the table below provides information about certain of our market-sensitive financial instruments and constitutes a forward-looking statement. expected maturity date 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 thereafter total fair value as of december 31, 2019 fixed rate debt: amount outstanding (in millions) $ 859.5 $ 643.2 $ 859.1 $ 582.4 $ 907.3 $ 3,618.7 $ 7,470.2 $ 8,130.6 variable rate debt: amount outstanding (in millions) $ 71.2 $ 127.0 $ $ 340.2 $ 20.7 $ 759.3 $ 1,318.4 $ 1,312.2 the fixed and variable rate debt amounts above exclude the remaining non-cash discounts, premiums and adjustments to fair value totaling $100.1 million. during the second half of 2013, we entered into various interest rate swap agreements relative to our 4.750% fixed rate senior notes due in may 2023. the goal was to reduce overall borrowing costs and rebalance our debt portfolio's ratio of fixed to floating interest rates. these swap agreements, which were designated as fair value hedges, have a total notional value of $300.0 million as of december 31, 2019. our interest rate swap contracts have been authorized pursuant to our policies and procedures. we do not use financial instruments for trading purposes and are not a party to any leveraged derivatives. as of december 31, 2019, our interest rate lock agreements had an aggregate notional value of $575.0 million with fixed interest rates ranging from 1.330% to 3.000%. as of december 31, 2018, our interest rate lock agreements had an aggregate notional value of $725.0 million with fixed interest rates ranging from 1.900% to 3.250%. we entered into these transactions to manage exposure to fluctuations in interest rates in anticipation of planned future issuances of senior notes in 2019 through 2021. upon the expected issuance of senior notes, we will terminate the interest rate locks and settle with our counterparties. as of december 31, 2019, we had $1,318.4 million of floating rate debt and $300.0 million of floating interest rate swap contracts. if interest rates increased or decreased by 100 basis points on our variable rate debt, annualized interest expense and net cash payments for interest would increase or decrease by approximately $16 million. this analysis does not reflect the effect that interest rates would have on other items, such as new borrowings and the impact on the economy. see note 9, debt, of the notes to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k for further information regarding how we manage interest rate risk. fuel price risk fuel costs represent a significant operating expense. when economically practical, we may enter into new fuel hedges, renew contracts, or engage in other strategies to mitigate market risk. as of december 31, 2019, we had no fuel hedges in place. while we charge fuel recovery fees to a majority of our customers, we are unable to charge such fees to all customers. at current consumption levels, we believe a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel would change our fuel costs by approximately $26 million per year. offsetting these changes in fuel expense would be changes in our fuel recovery fee charged to our customers. at current participation rates, we believe a twenty-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel would change our fuel recovery fee by approximately $26 million per year. our operations also require the use of certain petrochemical-based products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of petrochemicals. an increase in the price of petrochemicals could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs. we also are susceptible to increases in fuel recovery fees from our vendors. our fuel costs were $347.9 million in 2019, or 3.4% of revenue, compared to $391.4 million in 2018, or 3.9% of revenue, and $349.8 million in 2017, or 3.5% of revenue. 55 table of contents commodities price risk we market recovered materials such as old corrugated containers and old newsprint from our recycling processing centers. changes in market supply and demand for recycled commodities causes volatility in commodity prices. in prior periods, we have entered into derivative instruments such as swaps and costless collars designated as cash flow hedges to manage our exposure to changes in prices of these commodities. as of december 31, 2019, we had no recycling commodity hedges in place. at current volumes and mix of materials, we believe a $10 per ton change in the price of recycled commodities would change annual revenue and operating income by approximately $13 million and $13 million, respectively. revenue from recycling processing and commodity sales during the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 was $273.2 million, $297.8 million, and $539.2 million, respectively. 56 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors this form 10-k contains certain forward-looking information about us that is intended to be covered by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. words such as guidance, expect, will, may, anticipate, plan, estimate, project, intend, should, can, likely, could and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. these statements include statements about our plans, strategies and prospects. forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. these statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of our management and are subject to risk and uncertainties, including the risks set forth below in these risk factors, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the forward-looking information and statements. although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the expectations will prove to be correct. according, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this form 10-k. except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, we undertake no obligation to update or publish revised forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this form 10-k or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. we have substantial indebtedness, which may limit our financial flexibility. as of december 31, 2011, we had approximately $7 billion in principal value of debt and capital leases outstanding. this amount of indebtedness and our debt service requirements may limit our financial flexibility to access additional capital and make capital expenditures and other investments in our business, to withstand economic downturns and interest rate increases, to plan for or react to changes in our business and our industry, and to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants of our debt instruments. further, our ability to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in our debt instruments may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions or other events that are beyond our control. if we do not comply with these covenants and restrictions, we may be required to take actions such as reducing or delaying capital expenditures, reducing or eliminating dividends or stock repurchases, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing all or part of our existing debt, or seeking additional equity capital. general economic conditions can directly and adversely affect our operating results. our business is directly affected by changes in national and general economic factors and overall economic activity that are outside of our control, including consumer confidence and interest rates. a weak economy generally results in decreases in volumes of waste generated, which adversely affects our revenues. in addition, we have a relatively high fixed-cost structure, which is difficult to adjust quickly to match declining waste volume levels. consumer uncertainty and the loss of consumer confidence may decrease overall economic activity and thereby limit the amount of services requested by our customers. additionally, the decline in waste volumes may result in increased competitive pricing pressure and increased customer turnover, resulting in lower revenue and increased operating costs. recent and continuing economic conditions have negatively impacted the portion of our collection business servicing commercial and industrial accounts in general and the manufacturing 15 table of contents and construction industries in particular. we cannot assure you that worsening economic conditions would not have a significant adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. further, recovery in the solid waste industry historically has lagged behind recovery in the general economy. accordingly, we cannot assure you that an improvement in general economic conditions will result in an immediate, or any, improvement in our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the weak u.s. economy may expose us to credit risk for amounts due from governmental agencies, large national accounts, industrial customers and others. the weak u.s. economy has reduced the amount of taxes collected by various governmental agencies. we provide services to a number of these agencies, including numerous municipalities. these governmental agencies may suffer financial difficulties resulting from a decrease in tax revenue and may ultimately be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us. in addition, the weak economy may cause other customers, including our large national accounts or industrial clients, to suffer financial difficulties and ultimately to be unable or unwilling to pay amounts owed to us. this could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the waste industry is highly competitive and includes competitors that may have greater financial and operational resources, flexibility to reduce prices or other competitive advantages that could make it difficult for us to compete effectively. we principally compete with large national waste management companies, numerous municipalities, and numerous regional and local companies. competition for collection accounts is primarily based on price and the quality of services. competition for disposal business is primarily based on price, geographic location and quality of operations. one of our competitors may have greater financial and operational resources than we do. further, many counties and municipalities that operate their own waste collection and disposal facilities have the benefits of tax revenue or tax-exempt financing. our ability to obtain solid waste volume for our landfills also may be limited by the fact that some major collection operations also own or operate landfills to which they send their waste. in markets in which we do not own or operate a landfill, our collection operations may operate at a disadvantage to fully integrated competitors. as a result of these factors, from time to time we may have difficulty competing effectively in certain markets. if we were to lose market share or if we were to lower prices to address competitive issues, it could negatively impact our revenues and profitability. price increases may not be adequate to offset the impact of increased costs and may cause us to lose volume. we seek to secure price increases necessary to offset higher costs (including fuel and environmental costs), to maintain or improve operating margins, and to obtain adequate returns on our substantial investments in assets such as our landfills. from time to time, our competitors reduce their prices in an effort to expand their market share. contractual, general economic or market-specific conditions also may limit our ability to raise prices. for example, many of our contracts have price adjustment provisions that are tied to an index such as the consumer price index. particularly in a weak u.s. economy such as the current one, our costs may increase in excess of the increase, if any, in the consumer price index. this may continue to be the case even when the u.s. economy recovers because a recovery in the solid waste industry historically has lagged behind a recovery in the general economy. as a result, we may be unable to offset increases in costs, improve our operating margins and obtain adequate investment returns through price increases. we also may lose volume to lower-cost competitors. increases in the cost of fuel or petrochemicals would increase our operating expenses, and we cannot assure you that we would be able to recover such cost increases from our customers. we depend on fuel purchased in the open market to operate our collection and transfer trucks and other equipment used for collection, transfer, and disposal. fuel prices are unpredictable and fluctuate significantly based on events beyond our control, including geopolitical developments, actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries and other oil and gas producers, supply and demand for oil and gas, war, 16 table of contents terrorism and unrest in oil-producing countries, and regional production patterns. due to contractual or market factors, we may not be able to offset such volatility through fuel recovery fees. for example, our fuel costs were $516.5 million in 2011, or 6.3% of our revenue, compared to $407.6 million in 2010, or 5.0% of our revenue. to manage our exposure to volatility in fuel prices, we have entered into multiple swap agreements whereby we receive or make payments to counter-parties should the price of fuel vary from a specified amount. during 2011, approximately 4% of our fuel volume purchases were hedged with swap agreements. additionally, we are able to collect fuel recovery fees from some customers. for 2011, we were able to recover approximately 68% of our fuel costs with fuel recovery fees. at our current consumption levels, a one-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel costs by $1.4 million on an annual basis, which would be partially offset by a smaller change in the fuel recovery fees charged to our customers. accordingly, a substantial rise or drop in fuel costs could result in a material impact to our revenue and cost of operations. over the last several years, regulations have been adopted mandating changes in the composition of fuels for motor vehicles. the renewable fuel standards that epa sets annually affect the type of fuel our motor vehicle fleet uses. pursuant to the energy independence and security act of 2007, epa establishes annual renewable fuel volume requirements and separate volume requirements for four different categories of renewable fuels (renewable fuel, advanced biofuel, cellulosic biofuel, and biomass-based diesel). these volume requirements set standards for the proportion of refiners or importers total fuel volume that must be renewable and must take into account the fuels impact on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. these regulations are one of many factors that may affect the cost of the fuel we use. our operations also require the use of products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of petrochemicals. an increase in the price of petrochemicals could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs. we are also susceptible to increases in indirect fuel recovery fees from our vendors. fluctuations in prices for recycled commodities that we sell to customers may adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we purchase or collect and process recyclable materials such as paper, cardboard, plastics, aluminum and other metals for sale to third parties. our results of operations may be affected by changing prices or market requirements for recyclable materials. the resale and purchase prices of, and market demand for, recyclable materials are volatile due to changes in economic conditions and numerous other factors beyond our control. these fluctuations may affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. to manage our exposure to fluctuations in prices for recycled commodities, we have entered into multiple hedging arrangements whereby we receive or make payments to counter-parties should the price of recycled commodities vary from a specified amount or range. during 2011, approximately 33% of our tonnage sold was hedged with such arrangements. at our current sales levels, a ten dollar per ton change in the sale price of recyclable materials changes our revenue and operating income by approximately $27 million and $18 million, respectively, on an annual basis. accordingly, a substantial rise or drop in recycled commodity prices could result in a material impact to our revenue and cost of operations. adverse weather conditions may limit our operations and increase the costs of collection and disposal. our collection and landfill operations could be adversely impacted by extended periods of inclement weather, or by increased severity of weather and climate extremes resulting in the future from climate change. any of this could increase the volume of waste collected under our existing contracts (without corresponding compensation), interfere with collection and landfill operations, delay the development of landfill capacity or reduce the volume of waste generated by our customers. in addition, adverse weather conditions may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect our operating results in the affected regions during those periods. 17 table of contents we may be unable to maintain our credit ratings or execute our financial strategy. our ability to execute our financial strategy depends in part on our ability to maintain investment grade ratings on our debt. the credit rating process is contingent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our investment grade ratings in the future. if we were unable to do so, our interest expense would increase and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms may be adversely affected. our financial strategy also depends on our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to reinvest in our existing business, fund internal growth, acquire other solid waste businesses, pay dividends, repurchase stock, reduce indebtedness and minimize borrowings, and take other actions to enhance stockholder value. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in executing our broad-based pricing initiatives, that we will generate sufficient cash flow to execute our financial strategy, that we will be able to pay cash dividends at our present rate, or increase them, or that we will be able to continue our share repurchase program. the solid waste industry is a capital-intensive industry and our capital expenditures may exceed current expectations, which could require us to obtain additional funding for our operations or impair our ability to grow our business. our ability to remain competitive and to grow and expand our operations largely depends on our cash flow from operations and access to capital. if our capital efficiency programs cannot offset the impact of inflation and business growth, it may be necessary to increase the amount we spend. additionally, if we make acquisitions or further expand our operations, the amount we spend on capital, capping, closure, post-closure, environmental remediation and other items will increase. our cash needs also will increase if the expenditures for capping, closure, post-closure and remediation activities increase above our current estimates, which may occur over a long period due to changes in federal, state or local government requirements and other factors beyond our control. increases in expenditures would negatively impact our cash flows. we may be unable to obtain or maintain required permits or to expand existing permitted capacity of our landfills, which could decrease our revenue and increase our costs. we cannot assure you that we will successfully obtain or maintain the permits we require to operate our business because permits to operate new landfills and to expand the permitted capacity of existing landfills have become more difficult and expensive to obtain and maintain. permits often take years to obtain as a result of numerous hearings and compliance requirements with regard to zoning, environmental and other regulations. these permits are also often subject to resistance from citizen or other groups and other political pressures. local communities and citizen groups, adjacent landowners or governmental agencies may oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we may need, allege violations of the permits under which we currently operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. responding to these challenges has at times increased our costs and extended the time associated with establishing new facilities and expanding existing facilities. in addition, failure to receive regulatory and zoning approval may prohibit us from establishing new facilities or expanding existing facilities. our failure to obtain the required permits to operate our non-hazardous solid waste landfills could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, we may have to dispose collected waste at landfills operated by our competitors or haul the waste long distances at a higher cost to one of our other landfills, either of which could significantly increase our waste disposal costs. if we do not appropriately estimate the cost of landfill capping, closure and post-closure costs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. a landfill must be closed and capped, and post-closure maintenance commenced, once the permitted capacity of the landfill is reached and additional capacity is not authorized. we have significant financial obligations relating to capping, closure and post-closure costs at our existing owned or operated landfills, and will have material 18 table of contents financial obligations with respect to any future owned or operated landfills. we establish accruals for the estimated costs associated with capping, closure and post-closure financial obligations. we could underestimate such costs, and our financial obligations for capping, closure or post-closure costs could exceed the amount accrued or amounts otherwise receivable pursuant to trust funds established for this purpose. such a shortfall could result in significant unanticipated charges to income. additionally, if a landfill must be closed earlier than expected or its remaining airspace is reduced for any other reason, the accruals for capping, closure and post-closure could be required to be accelerated, which could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. alternatives to landfill disposal could reduce our disposal volumes and cause our revenues and operating results to decline. most of the states in which we operate landfills require counties and municipalities to formulate comprehensive plans to reduce the volume of solid waste deposited in landfills through waste planning, composting and recycling, or other programs. some state and local governments mandate waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of wastes, such as yard waste, at landfills. further, many of our customers voluntarily are diverting waste to alternatives to landfill disposal, such as recycling and composting, while also working to reduce the amount of waste they generate. many of the largest companies in the u.s. are setting zero-waste goals in which they strive to send no waste to landfills. although such actions help to protect our environment, they have reduced and will in the future reduce the volume of waste going to landfills and may affect the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal. accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to operate our landfills at their current volumes or charge current prices for landfill disposal services due to the decrease in demand for such services. if we cannot expand our service offerings and grow lines of business to service waste streams that do not go to landfills and to provide services for customers that wish to reduce waste entirely, this could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. further, even if we can develop service offerings and lines of business, disposal alternatives nonetheless could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the possibility of landfill and transfer station site development projects, expansion projects or pending acquisitions not being completed or certain other events could result in material charges to income. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we capitalize certain expenditures relating to development, expansion, acquisition and other projects. if a facility or operation is permanently shut down or determined to be impaired, or a development, expansion or other project is not completed or is determined to be impaired, we will charge against earnings any unamortized capitalized expenditures relating to such facility or project that we are unable to recover through sale, transfer or otherwise. we also carry a significant amount of goodwill on our consolidate balance sheets, which we must assess for impairment annually, and more frequently in the case of certain triggering events. we may incur charges against earnings in accordance with this policy, or other events may cause impairments. such charges could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. we are subject to costly environmental regulations and flow-control regulations that may affect our operating margins, restrict our operations and subject us to additional liability. complying with laws and regulations governing the use, treatment, storage, transfer and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and materials, air quality, water quality and the remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances is costly. laws and regulations often require us to enhance or replace our equipment and to modify landfill operations or initiate final closure of a landfill. we cannot assure you that we will be able to implement price increases sufficient to offset the costs of complying with these laws and regulations. in addition, environmental regulatory changes could accelerate or increase expenditures for capping, closure and post-closure, and environmental and remediation activities at solid waste facilities and obligate us to spend sums in addition to those presently accrued for such purposes. 19 table of contents our collection, transfer, and landfill operations are, and may in the future continue to be, affected by state or local laws or regulations that restrict the transportation of solid waste across state, county or other jurisdictional lines or that direct the flow of waste to a specified facility. such laws and regulations could negatively affect our operations, resulting in declines in landfill volumes and increased costs of alternate disposal. in addition to the costs of complying with environmental regulations, we incur costs to defend against litigation brought by government agencies and private parties who allege we are in violation of our permits and applicable environmental laws and regulations, or who assert claims alleging environmental damage, personal injury or property damage. as a result, we may be required to pay fines or implement corrective measures, or we may have our permits and licenses modified or revoked. a significant judgment against us, the loss of a significant permit or license, or the imposition of a significant fine could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we establish accruals for our estimates of the costs associated with our environmental obligations. we could underestimate such accruals and remediation costs could exceed amounts accrued. such shortfalls could result in significant unanticipated charges to income. regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could impose costs on our operations, the magnitude of which we cannot yet estimate. efforts to curtail the emission of greenhouse gases and to ameliorate the effects of climate change continue to be debated on the federal, regional, and state level. our landfill operations emit methane, identified as a greenhouse gas, and our vehicle fleets emit, among others, carbon dioxide, which also has been identified as a greenhouse gas. conventional wisdom now suggests that passage of comprehensive, federal climate change legislation is highly unlikely. nonetheless, should comprehensive federal climate change legislation be enacted, we expect it to impose costs on our operations, the materiality of which we cannot predict. absent comprehensive federal legislation to control greenhouse gas emissions, epa is moving ahead administratively under its existing clean air act authority. epa is compelled to issue rules by the u.s. supreme court april 2007 massachusetts v. epa ruling that greenhouse gases are pollutants for purposes of the clean air act and epa december 2009 finding that continued emissions of greenhouse gases endanger human health and welfare. one applicable rule is epa may 2010 prevention of significant deterioration and title v greenhouse gas tailoring rule (tailoring rule). the tailoring rule sets levels of greenhouse gas emissions at new or modified stationary emission sources that trigger permit and control obligations. epa authority to issue the tailoring rule has been challenged in court, and the outcome of that court challenge is uncertain. moreover, in july 2011 epa issued a rule deferring the application of the tailoring rule to solid waste landfills for three years. we cannot assure you that eventual application of the tailoring rule to our landfills will not have a material effect on our landfill operations or on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. we may have environmental liabilities that are not covered by our insurance. changes in insurance markets also may impact our financial results. we may incur liabilities for the deterioration of the environment as a result of our operations. we maintain high deductibles for our environmental liability insurance coverage. if we were to incur substantial liability for environmental damage, our insurance coverage may be inadequate to cover such liability. this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. also, due to the variable condition of the insurance market, we may experience future increases in self-insurance levels as a result of increased retention levels and increased premiums. as we assume more risk for self-insurance through higher retention levels, we may experience more variability in our self-insurance reserves and expense. 20 table of contents despite our efforts, we may incur additional hazardous substances liability in excess of amounts presently known and accrued. we are a potentially responsible party at many sites under cercla, which provides for the remediation of contaminated facilities and imposes strict, joint and several liability for the cost of remediation on current owners and operators of a facility at which there has been a release or a threatened release of a hazardous substance. cercla liability also extends to parties who were site owners and operators at the time hazardous substances were disposed, and on persons who arrange for the disposal of such substances at the facility (i.e., generators of the waste and transporters who selected the disposal site). hundreds of substances are defined as hazardous under cercla and their presence, even in minute amounts, can result in substantial liability. notwithstanding our efforts to comply with applicable regulations and to avoid transporting and receiving hazardous substances, we may have additional liability under cercla, or similar state laws or rcra, in excess of our current reserves because such substances may be present in waste collected by us or disposed of in our landfills, or in waste collected, transported or disposed of in the past by companies we have acquired. actual costs for these liabilities could be significantly greater than amounts presently accrued for these purposes, which could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. we are, and from time to time become, involved in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of our business. many of these matters raise difficult and complicated factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties and complexities. the timing of the final resolutions to lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal proceedings is uncertain. further, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments and adversely affect our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we may be unable to manage our growth effectively. our growth strategy places significant demands on our financial, operational and management resources. to continue our growth, we may need to add administrative and other personnel, and may need to make additional investments in operations and systems. we cannot assure you that we will be able to find and train qualified personnel, or do so on a timely basis, or expand our operations and systems to the extent, and in the time, required. we may be unable to execute our acquisition growth strategy. our ability to execute our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to identify and acquire desirable acquisition candidates and on our ability to successfully consolidate acquired operations into our business. the consolidation of our operations with those of acquired companies may present significant challenges to our management. in addition, competition among our competitors for acquisition candidates may prevent us from acquiring certain acquisition candidates. thus, we cannot assure you that: desirable acquisition candidates exist or will be identified, we will be able to acquire any of the candidates identified, we will effectively consolidate companies we acquire, or any acquisitions will be profitable or accretive to our earnings. if any of these factors force us to alter our growth strategy, our growth prospects could be adversely affected. 21 table of contents businesses we acquire may have undisclosed liabilities. in pursuing our acquisition strategy, our due diligence investigations of the acquisition candidates may fail to discover certain undisclosed liabilities. if we acquire a company having undisclosed liabilities such as environmental, remediation or contractual, as a successor owner we may be responsible for such undisclosed liabilities. we try to minimize our exposure to such liabilities when we can by conducting due diligence, by obtaining indemnification from each sellers of the acquired companies, by deferring payment of a portion of the purchase price as security for the indemnification and by acquiring only specified assets. however, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain indemnification or that any indemnification obtained will be enforceable, collectible or sufficient in amount, scope or duration to fully offset any undisclosed liabilities arising from our acquisitions. our consolidated financial statements are based on estimates and assumptions that will differ from actual results. our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap and necessarily include amounts based on management estimates. actual results will differ from these amounts. significant items requiring management to make subjective or complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain include the recoverability of long-lived assets, the depletion and amortization of landfill development costs, accruals for final capping, closure and post-closure costs, valuation allowances for accounts receivable and deferred tax assets, liabilities for potential litigation, claims and assessments, and liabilities for environmental remediation, employee benefit and pension plans, deferred taxes, uncertain tax positions and self-insurance. we cannot assure you that the liabilities recorded for landfill and environmental costs will be adequate to cover the requirements of existing environmental regulations, future changes to or interpretations of existing regulations, or the identification of adverse environmental conditions previously unknown to management. the introduction of new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our results of operations. complying with new accounting rules, laws or regulations could adversely impact our results of operations or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our results of operations in future periods. we may be subject to workforce influences, including work stoppages, which could increase our operating costs and disrupt our operations. as of december 31, 2011, approximately 27% of our workforce was represented by various local labor unions. if our unionized workers were to engage in strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and an increase in our operating costs, which could have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additional groups of employees may seek union representation in the future and, if successful, the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements could divert management attention and result in increased operating costs. if a greater percentage of our workforce becomes unionized, our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely impacted due to the potential for increased operating costs. our obligation to fund multi-employer pension plans to which we contribute may have an adverse impact on us. we contribute to at least 27 multi-employer pension plans covering at least 20% of our current employees. we do not administer these plans and generally are not represented on the boards of trustees of these plans. the pension protection act enacted in 2006 (the ppa) requires under-funded pension plans to improve their funding ratios. based on the information available to us, we believe that some of the multi-employer plans to which we contribute are either critical or endangered as those terms are defined in the ppa. we cannot determine at this time the amount of additional funding, if any, we may be required to make to these plans and, therefore, have 22 table of contents not recorded any related liabilities. however, plan assessments could have an adverse impact on our results of operations or cash flows for a given period. furthermore, under current law, upon the termination of a multi-employer pension plan, or in the event of a withdrawal by us (which we consider from time to time) or a mass withdrawal of contributing employers (each, a withdrawal event ), we would be required to make payments to the plan for our proportionate share of the plan unfunded vested liabilities. we cannot assure you that there will not be a withdrawal event with respect to any of the multi-employer pension plans to which we contribute or that, in the event of such a withdrawal event, the amounts we would be required to contribute would not have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for additional discussion and detail regarding multi-employer pension plans see note 11, employee benefit plans, to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k. the costs of providing for pension benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in pension fund values and fluctuating actuarial assumptions, and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. we sponsor a defined benefit pension plan that is funded with trustee assets invested in a diversified portfolio of debt and equity securities. our costs for providing such benefits and related funding requirements are subject to changes in the market value of plan assets. our pension expenses and related funding requirements are also subject to various actuarial calculations and assumptions, which may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, interest rates and other factors. a significant increase in our pension obligations and funding requirements could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the loss of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects. our future success depends on the continued contributions of several key employees and officers. the loss of the services of key employees and officers, whether such loss is through resignation or other causes, or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and growth prospects. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 71 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our major market risk exposure of our financial instruments is changing interest rates in the united states and fluctuations in libor. we intend to manage interest rate risk through the use of a combination of fixed and floating rate debt. the carrying value of our variable rate debt approximates fair value because interest rates are variable and, accordingly, approximates current market rates for instruments with similar risk and maturities. the fair value of our debt is determined as of the balance sheet date and is subject to change. the table below provides information about certain of our market-sensitive financial instruments and constitutes a forward-looking statement. expected maturity date 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter total fair value of (asset) / liability as of december 31, 2011 fixed rate debt: amount outstanding (in millions) $ 30.7 $ 5.5 $ 16.0 $ 25.7 $ 4.5 $ 6,108.9 $ 6,191.3 $ 6,191.3 average interest rates 5.2 % 7.0 % 6.0 % 5.7 % 7.5 % 5.5 % 5.5 % variable rate debt: amount outstanding (in millions) $ - $ 27.2 $ - $ - $ 17.2 $ 856.5 $ 900.9 $ 900.9 average interest rates - % 2.1 % - % - % 3.3 % 0.8 % 0.9 % 71 table of contents the fixed and variable rate debt amounts above exclude the remaining non-cash discounts, premiums and adjustments to fair value recorded in purchase accounting totaling $170.4 million. fuel price risk fuel costs represent a significant operating expense. when economically practical, we may enter into new or renew contracts, or engage in other strategies to mitigate market risk. where appropriate, we have implemented a fuel recovery fee that is designed to recover our fuel costs. while we charge these fees to a majority of our customers, we are unable to charge such fees to all customers. consequently, an increase in fuel costs results in (1) an increase in our cost of operations, (2) a smaller increase in our revenue (from the fuel recovery fee) and (3) a decrease in our operating margin percentage, because the increase in revenue is more than offset by the increase in cost. conversely, a decrease in fuel costs results in (1) a decrease in our cost of operations, (2) a smaller decrease in our revenue and (3) an increase in our operating margin percentage. at our current consumption levels, a one-cent per gallon change in the price of diesel fuel changes our fuel costs by approximately $1.4 million on an annual basis, which would be partially offset by a smaller change in the fuel recovery fees charged to our customers. accordingly, a substantial rise or drop in fuel costs could result in a material impact to our revenue and cost of operations. our operations also require the use of certain petrochemical-based products (such as liners at our landfills) whose costs may vary with the price of petrochemicals. an increase in the price of petrochemicals could increase the cost of those products, which would increase our operating and capital costs. we also are susceptible to increases in indirect fuel recovery fees from our vendors. commodities prices we market recycled products such as cardboard and newspaper from our materials recovery facilities. market demand for recyclable materials causes volatility in commodity prices. at current volumes and mix of materials, we believe a ten dollar per ton change in the price of recyclable materials will change revenue and operating income by approximately $27 million and $18 million, respectively, on an annual basis. revenue from sales of these products in 2011, 2010 and 2009 was approximately $438.6 million, $337.9 million and $229.8 million, respectively. 72 table of contents