risk factors 7 risk factors the company's operations are subject to the general risks of the food industry. the food products manufacturing industry is subject to the risks posed by: food spoilage; food contamination caused by disease-producing organisms or pathogens, such as listeria monocytogenes , salmonella , and pathogenic e coli .; food allergens; nutritional and health-related concerns; federal, state, and local food processing controls; consumer product liability claims; product tampering; and the possible unavailability and/or expense of liability insurance. the pathogens which may cause food contamination are found generally in livestock and in the environment and thus may be present in our products. these pathogens also can be introduced to our products as a result of improper handling by customers or consumers. we do not have control over handling procedures once our products have been shipped for distribution. if one or more of these risks were to materialize, the company's brand and business reputation could be negatively impacted. in addition, revenues could decrease, costs of doing business could increase, and the company's operating results could be adversely affected. deterioration of economic conditions could harm the company's business. the company's business may be adversely affected by changes in national or global economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, availability of capital, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges), and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. decreases in consumer spending rates and shifts in consumer product preferences could also negatively impact the company. volatility in financial markets and the deterioration of national and global economic conditions could impact the company's operations as follows: the financial stability of our customers and suppliers may be compromised, which could result in additional bad debts for the company or non-performance by suppliers; and the value of our investments in debt and equity securities may decline, including most significantly the company's trading securities held as part of a rabbi trust to fund supplemental executive retirement plans and deferred income plans, and the company's assets held in pension plans. the company utilizes hedging programs to manage its exposure to various commodity market risks, which qualify for hedge accounting for financial reporting purposes. volatile fluctuations in market conditions could cause these instruments to become ineffective, which could require any gains or losses associated with these instruments to be reported in the company's earnings each period. these instruments may limit the company's ability to benefit from market gains if commodity prices become more favorable than those secured under the company's hedging programs. additionally, if a highly pathogenic disease outbreak developed in the united states, it may negatively impact the national economy, demand for company products, and/or the company's workforce availability, and the company's financial results could suffer. the company has developed contingency plans to address infectious disease scenarios and the potential impact on its operations, and will continue to update these plans as necessary. there can be no assurance given, however, these plans will be effective in eliminating the negative effects of any such diseases on the company's operating results. fluctuations in commodity prices and availability of pork, poultry, beef, feed grains, avocados, peanuts, energy, and whey could harm the company's earnings. the company's results of operations and financial condition are largely dependent upon the cost and supply of pork, poultry, beef, feed grains, avocados, peanuts, and whey as well as energy costs and the selling prices for many of our products, which are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand. the live hog industry has evolved to large, vertically-integrated operations using long-term supply agreements. this has resulted in fewer hogs being available on the cash spot market. consequently, the company uses long-term supply contracts based on market-based formulas or the cost of production to ensure a stable supply of raw materials while minimizing extreme fluctuations in costs over the long-term. this may result, in the short-term, in higher live hog costs compared to the cash spot market depending on the relationship of the cash spot market to contract prices. market-based pricing on certain product lines, and lead time required to implement pricing adjustments, may prevent all or part of these cost increases from being recovered, and these higher costs could adversely affect our short-term financial results. jots raises turkeys and contracts with turkey growers to meet its raw material requirements for whole birds and processed turkey products. results in these operations are affected by the cost and supply of feed grains, which fluctuate due to climate conditions, production forecasts, and supply and demand conditions at local, regional, national, and worldwide levels. the company attempts to manage some of its short-term exposure to fluctuations in feed prices by forward buying, using futures contracts, and pursuing pricing advances. however, these strategies may not be adequate to overcome sustained increases in market prices due to alternate uses for feed grains or other changes in these market conditions. 7 table of contents the supply of natural and organic proteins may impact the company's ability to ensure a continuing supply of these products. to mitigate this risk, the company partners with multiple long-term suppliers. international trade barriers and other restrictions could result in less foreign demand and increased domestic supply of proteins which could lower prices. the company occasionally utilizes in-country production to limit this exposure. outbreaks of disease among livestock and poultry flocks could harm the company's revenues and operating margins. the company is subject to risks associated with the outbreak of disease in pork and beef livestock, and poultry flocks, including african swine fever (asf), bovine spongiform encephalopathy (bse), pneumo-virus, porcine circovirus 2 (pcv2), porcine reproduction &amp; respiratory syndrome (prrs), foot-and-mouth disease (fmd), porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (pedv), and highly pathogenic avian influenza (hpai). the outbreak of disease could adversely affect the company's supply of raw materials, increase the cost of production, reduce utilization of the company's harvest facilities, and reduce operating margins. additionally, the outbreak of disease may hinder the company's ability to market and sell products both domestically and internationally. the company has developed business continuity plans for various disease scenarios and will continue to update these plans as necessary. there can be no assurance given, however, these plans will be effective in eliminating the negative effects of any such diseases on the company's operating results. market demand for the company's products may fluctuate. the company faces competition from producers of alternative meats and protein sources, including pork, beef, turkey, chicken, fish, nut butters, and whey. the bases on which the company competes include: price; product quality and attributes; brand identification; breadth of product line; and customer service. demand for the company's products is also affected by competitors' promotional spending, the effectiveness of the company's advertising and marketing programs, and consumer perceptions. failure to identify and react to changes in food trends such as sustainability of product sources and animal welfare could lead to, among other things, reduced demand for the company's brands and products. the company may be unable to compete successfully on any or all of these bases in the future. the company's operations are subject to the general risks associated with acquisitions. the company has made several acquisitions in recent years, most recently the acquisitions of columbus, fontanini, and ceratti, and regularly reviews opportunities for strategic growth through acquisitions. potential risks associated with acquisitions include the inability to integrate new operations successfully, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees and customers of the acquired companies, the possible assumption of unknown liabilities, potential disputes with the sellers, potential impairment charges if purchase assumptions are not achieved or market conditions decline, and the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which the company has limited or no prior experience. any or all of these risks could impact the company's financial results and business reputation. in addition, acquisitions outside the united states may present unique challenges and increase the company's exposure to the risks associated with foreign operations. the company is subject to disruption of operations at co-packers or other suppliers. disruption of operations at co packers or other suppliers may impact the company's product or raw material supply, which could have an adverse effect on the company's financial results. additionally, actions taken to mitigate the impact of any potential disruption, including increasing inventory in anticipation of a potential production or supply interruption, may adversely affect the company's financial results. the company's operations are subject to the general risks of litigation. the company is involved on an ongoing basis in litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. trends in litigation may include class actions involving employees, consumers, competitors, suppliers, shareholders, or injured persons, and claims relating to product liability, contract disputes, intellectual property, advertising, labeling, wage and hour laws, employment practices, or environmental matters. litigation trends and the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and adverse litigation trends and outcomes could adversely affect the company's financial results. the company is subject to the loss of a material contract. the company is a party to several supply, distribution, contract packaging, and other material contracts. the loss of a material contract could adversely affect the company's financial results. government regulation, present and future, exposes the company to potential sanctions and compliance costs that could adversely affect the company's business. the company's operations are subject to extensive regulation by the u.s. department of homeland security, the u.s. department of agriculture, the u.s. food and drug administration, federal and state taxing authorities, and other federal, state, and local authorities who oversee workforce immigration laws, tax regulations, animal welfare, food safety standards, and the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, and labeling of the company's products. the company's manufacturing facilities and products are subject to continuous inspection by federal, state, and local authorities. claims or enforcement proceedings could be brought against the company in the future. the availability of government inspectors due to a government furlough could also cause disruption to the company's manufacturing facilities. additionally, the company is subject to new or modified laws, regulations, and accounting standards. the company's failure or inability to comply with such requirements could subject the company to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls, or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions. 8 table of contents the company is subject to stringent environmental regulation and potentially subject to environmental litigation, proceedings, and investigations. the company's past and present business operations and ownership and operation of real property are subject to stringent federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment and the handling and disposition of wastes (including solid and hazardous wastes) or otherwise relating to protection of the environment. compliance with these laws and regulations, and the ability to comply with any modifications to these laws and regulations, is material to the company's business. new matters or sites may be identified in the future requiring additional investigation, assessment, or expenditures. in addition, some of the company's facilities have been in operation for many years and, over time, the company and other prior operators of these facilities may have generated and disposed of wastes that now may be considered hazardous. future discovery of contamination of property underlying or in the vicinity of the company's present or former properties or manufacturing facilities and/or waste disposal sites could require the company to incur additional expenses. the occurrence of any of these events, the implementation of new laws and regulations, or stricter interpretation of existing laws or regulations could adversely affect the company's financial results. the company's foreign operations pose additional risks to the company's business. the company operates its business and markets its products internationally. the company's foreign operations are subject to the risks described above, as well as risks related to fluctuations in currency values, foreign currency exchange controls, compliance with foreign laws, compliance with applicable u.s. laws, including the foreign corrupt practices act, and other economic or political uncertainties. international sales are subject to risks related to general economic conditions, imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other restrictions, enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions and compliance with applicable foreign laws, and other economic and political uncertainties. all of these risks could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, which could adversely affect the company's financial results. the company may be adversely impacted if the company is unable to protect information technology systems against, or effectively respond to, cyber-attacks or security breaches. information technology systems are an important part of the company's business operations. attempted cyber-attacks and other cyber incidents are occurring more frequently and are being made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise. in an attempt to mitigate this risk, the company has implemented and continues to evaluate security initiatives and business continuity plans. deterioration of labor relations or increases in labor costs could harm the company's business. as of october 28, 2018 , the company had approximately 20,100 employees worldwide, of which approximately 4,450 were represented by labor unions, principally the united food and commercial workers union. a significant increase in labor costs or a deterioration of labor relations at any of the company's facilities or contracted hog processing facilities resulting in work slowdowns or stoppages could harm the company's financial results. union contracts at the company's facilities in algona, iowa; atlanta, georgia; austin, minnesota; and beloit, wisconsin will expire during fiscal 2019, covering approximately 2,300 employees. negotiations have not yet been initiated. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 29 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk hog markets: the company's earnings are affected by fluctuations in the live hog market. to minimize the impact on earnings, and to ensure a steady supply of quality hogs, the company has entered into contracts with producers for the purchase of hogs at formula-based prices over periods of up to 10 years. purchased hogs under contract accounted for 96 percent of the total hogs purchased by the company during fiscal 2018 and 2017. the majority of these contracts use market-based formulas based on hog futures, hog primal values, or industry reported hog markets. other contracts use a formula based on the cost of production, which can fluctuate independently from hog markets. the company's value-added branded portfolio helps mitigate changes in hog and pork market prices. therefore, a hypothetical 10 percent change in the cash hog market would have had an immaterial effect on the company's results of operations. in the second quarter of 2017, the company initiated a hedge program to offset the fluctuation in the company's future direct hog purchases. this program utilizes lean hog futures, and these contracts are accounted for under cash flow hedge accounting. the fair value of the company's open futures contracts in this program as of october 28, 2018 , was $0.7 million, before tax, compared to $1.7 million, before tax, as of october 29, 2017. the company measures its market risk exposure on its lean hog futures contracts using a sensitivity analysis, which considers a hypothetical 10 percent change in the market prices for lean hogs. a 10 percent decrease in the market price for lean hogs would have negatively impacted the fair value of the company's october 28, 2018 , open lean hog contracts by $2.5 million, which in turn would lower the company's future cost on purchased hogs by a similar amount. turkey production costs: the company raises or contracts for live turkeys to meet the majority of its raw material supply requirements. production costs in raising turkeys are subject primarily to fluctuations in feed prices and, to a lesser extent, fuel costs. under normal, long-term market conditions, changes in the cost to produce turkeys are offset by proportional changes in the turkey market. to reduce the company's exposure to changes in grain prices, the company utilizes a hedge program to offset the fluctuation in the company's future direct grain purchases. this program utilizes corn futures for jots, and these contracts are accounted for under cash flow hedge accounting. the fair value of the company's open futures contracts as of october 28, 2018 , was $(1.3) million compared to $(2.2) million, before tax, as of october 29, 2017. the company measures its market risk exposure on its grain futures contracts using a sensitivity analysis, which considers a hypothetical 10 percent change in the market prices for grain. a 10 percent decrease in the market price for grain would have negatively impacted the fair value of the company's october 28, 2018 , open grain contracts by $6.7 million, which in turn would lower the company's future cost on purchased grain by a similar amount. other input costs: the costs of raw materials, packaging materials, freight, fuel, and energy may cause the company's results to fluctuate significantly. to manage input cost volatility, the company pursues cost saving measures, forward pricing, derivatives, and pricing actions when necessary. long-term debt: a principal market risk affecting the company is the exposure to changes in interest rates on the company's fixed-rate, long-term debt. market risk for fixed-rate, long-term debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value, resulting from a hypothetical 10 percent decrease in interest rates, and amounts to approximately $1.9 million. the fair value of the company's long-term debt was estimated using discounted future cash flows based on the company's incremental borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. 29 table of contents investments: the company has corporate-owned life insurance policies classified as trading securities as part of a rabbi trust to fund certain supplemental executive retirement plans and deferred income plans. as of october 28, 2018 , the balance of these securities totaled $137.3 million compared to $128.5 million as of october 29, 2017. a majority of these securities represent fixed income funds. the company is subject to market risk due to fluctuations in the value of the remaining investments, as unrealized gains and losses associated with these securities are included in the company's net earnings on a mark-to-market basis. a 10 percent decline in the value of the investments not held in fixed income funds would have a direct negative impact to the company's pretax earnings of approximately $4.3 million, while a 10 percent increase in value would have a positive impact of the same amount. international assets: the fair values of certain company assets are subject to fluctuations in foreign currencies. the company's net asset position in foreign currencies as of october 28, 2018 , was $687.7 million, compared to $781.3 million as of october 29, 2017 , with most of the exposure existing in chinese yuan and brazilian real. changes in currency exchange rates impact the fair values of company assets either currently through the consolidated statements of operations as currency gains/ losses, or by affecting other comprehensive loss. the company measures its foreign currency exchange risk by using a 10 percent sensitivity analysis on the company's primary foreign net asset position, the chinese yuan and the brazilian real, as of october 28, 2018 . a 10 percent strengthening in the value of the yuan relative to the u.s. dollar would result in other comprehensive income of approximately $51.0 million pretax. a 10 percent weakening in the value of the yuan relative to the u.s. dollar would result in other comprehensive loss of approximately $41.7 million pretax. a 10 percent strengthening in the value of the real relative to the u.s. dollar would result in other comprehensive income of approximately $13.1 million pretax. a 10 percent weakening in the value of the real relative to the u.s. dollar would result in other comprehensive loss of approximately $10.7 million pretax. during fiscal 2018, the value of the brazilian real declined 21.9 percent. (see note j for additional details).risk factors 7 risk factors the company's operations are subject to the general risks of the food industry. the food products manufacturing industry is subject to the risks posed by: food spoilage; food contamination caused by disease-producing organisms or pathogens, such as listeria monocytogenes , salmonella , and pathogenic e coli .; food allergens; nutritional and health-related concerns; federal, state, and local food processing controls; consumer product liability claims; product tampering; and the possible unavailability and/or expense of liability insurance. the pathogens that may cause food contamination are found generally in livestock and in the environment and thus may be present in our products. these pathogens can also be introduced to our products as a result of improper handling or cooking by customers or consumers. we do not have control over handling procedures once our products have been shipped for distribution. if one or more of these risks were to materialize, the company's brand and business reputation could be negatively impacted. in addition, revenues could decrease, costs of doing business could increase, and the company's operating results could be adversely affected. deterioration of economic conditions could harm the company's business. the company's business may be adversely affected by changes in national or global economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, availability of capital, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges), and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. decreases in consumer spending rates and shifts in consumer product preferences could also negatively impact the company. volatility in financial markets and the deterioration of national and global economic conditions could impact the company's operations as follows: the financial stability of our customers and suppliers may be compromised, which could result in additional bad debts for the company or non-performance by suppliers; and the value of our investments in debt and equity securities may decline, including most significantly the company's trading securities held as part of a rabbi trust to fund supplemental executive retirement plans and deferred income plans, and the company's assets held in pension plans. the company utilizes hedging programs to manage its exposure to various commodity market risks, which qualify for hedge accounting for financial reporting purposes. volatile fluctuations in market conditions could cause these instruments to become ineffective, which could require any gains or losses associated with these instruments to be reported in the company's earnings each period. these instruments may limit the company's ability to benefit from market gains if commodity prices become more favorable than those secured under the company's hedging programs. additionally, if a highly pathogenic human disease outbreak developed in the united states, it may negatively impact the national economy, demand for company products, and/or the company's workforce availability, and the company's financial results could suffer. the company has developed contingency plans to address infectious disease scenarios and the potential impact on its operations, and will continue to update these plans as necessary. there can be no assurance given, however, these plans will be effective in eliminating the negative effects of any such diseases on the company's operating results. outbreaks of disease among livestock and poultry flocks could harm the company's revenues and operating margins. the company is subject to risks associated with the outbreak of disease in pork and beef livestock, and poultry flocks, including african swine fever (asf), bovine spongiform encephalopathy (bse), pneumo-virus, porcine circovirus 2 (pcv2), porcine reproduction &amp; respiratory syndrome (prrs), foot-and-mouth disease (fmd), porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (pedv), and highly pathogenic avian influenza (hpai). the outbreak of such diseases could adversely affect the company's supply of raw materials, increase the cost of production, reduce utilization of the company's harvest facilities, and reduce operating margins. additionally, the outbreak of disease may hinder the company's ability to market and sell products both domestically and internationally. most recently, the outbreak of asf in china has eliminated over 30 percent of that country's hog herd compared to last year, according to the ministry of agriculture and rural affairs of the people's republic of china. the disease has also spread to additional countries in asia and europe. if an outbreak of asf were to occur in the united states, the company's supply of hogs and pork could be materially impacted. the company has developed business continuity plans for various disease scenarios and will continue to update these plans as necessary. there can be no assurance given, however, that these plans will be effective in eliminating the negative effects of any such diseases on the company's operating results. 7 table of contents fluctuations in commodity prices and availability of pork, poultry, beef, feed grains, avocados, peanuts, energy, and whey could harm the company's earnings. the company's results of operations and financial condition are largely dependent upon the cost and supply of pork, poultry, beef, feed grains, avocados, peanuts, and whey as well as energy costs and the selling prices for many of our products, which are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand. the live hog industry has evolved to large, vertically-integrated operations using long-term supply agreements. this has resulted in fewer hogs being available on the cash spot market. consequently, the company uses long-term supply contracts based on market-based formulas or the cost of production to ensure a stable supply of raw materials while minimizing extreme fluctuations in costs over the long-term. this may result, in the short-term, in higher live hog costs compared to the cash spot market depending on the relationship of the cash spot market to contract prices. market-based pricing on certain product lines, and lead time required to implement pricing adjustments, may prevent all or part of these cost increases from being recovered, and these higher costs could adversely affect our short-term financial results. jennie-o turkey store raises turkeys and contracts with turkey growers to meet its raw material requirements for whole birds and processed turkey products. results in these operations are affected by the cost and supply of feed grains, which fluctuate due to climate conditions, production forecasts, and supply and demand conditions at local, regional, national, and worldwide markets. the company attempts to manage some of its short-term exposure to fluctuations in feed prices by forward buying, using futures contracts, and pursuing pricing advances. however, these strategies may not be adequate to overcome sustained increases in market prices due to alternate uses for feed grains or other changes in these market conditions. the supplies of natural and organic proteins may impact the company's ability to ensure a continuing supply of these products. to mitigate this risk, the company partners with multiple long-term suppliers. international trade barriers and other restrictions could result in decreased foreign demand and increased domestic supply of proteins, thereby potentially lowering prices. the company occasionally utilizes in-country production to limit this exposure. market demand for the company's products may fluctuate. the company faces competition from producers of alternative meats and protein sources, including pork, beef, turkey, chicken, fish, nut butters, whey, and plant-based proteins. the factors on which the company competes include: price; product quality and attributes; brand identification; breadth of product line; and customer service. demand for the company's products is also affected by competitors' promotional spending, the effectiveness of the company's advertising and marketing programs, and consumer perceptions. failure to identify and react to changes in food trends such as sustainability of product sources and animal welfare could lead to, among other things, reduced demand for the company's brands and products. the company may be unable to compete successfully on any or all of these factors in the future. the company's operations are subject to the general risks associated with acquisitions and divestitures. the company has made several acquisitions and divestitures in recent years that align with the company's strategic initiative of delivering long-term value to shareholders. the company regularly reviews strategic opportunities to grow through acquisitions and to divest non-strategic assets. potential risks associated with these transactions include the the inability to consummate a transaction on favorable terms, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees and customers of current or acquired companies, the inability to integrate or divest operations successfully, the possible assumption of unknown liabilities, potential disputes with buyers or sellers, potential impairment charges if purchase assumptions are not achieved, and the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which the company has limited or no prior experience. any or all of these risks could impact the company's financial results and business reputation. in addition, acquisitions outside the united states may present unique challenges and increase the company's exposure to the risks associated with foreign operations. the company is subject to disruption of operations at co-packers or other suppliers. disruption of operations at co packers or other suppliers may impact the company's product or raw material supply, which could have an adverse effect on the company's financial results. additionally, actions taken to mitigate the impact of any potential disruption, including increasing inventory in anticipation of a potential production or supply interruption, may adversely affect the company's financial results. the company's operations are subject to the general risks of litigation. the company is involved on an ongoing basis in litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. trends in litigation may include class actions involving employees, consumers, competitors, suppliers, shareholders, or injured persons, and claims relating to product liability, contract disputes, intellectual property, advertising, labeling, wage and hour laws, employment practices, or environmental matters. litigation trends and the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and adverse litigation trends and outcomes could negatively affect the company's financial results. the company is subject to the loss of a material contract. the company is a party to several supply, distribution, contract packaging, and other material contracts. the loss of a material contract could adversely affect the company's financial results. 8 table of contents government regulation, present and future, exposes the company to potential sanctions and compliance costs that could adversely affect the company's business. the company's operations are subject to extensive regulation by the u.s. department of homeland security, the u.s. department of agriculture, the u.s. food and drug administration, federal and state taxing authorities, and other federal, state, and local authorities who oversee workforce immigration laws, tax regulations, animal welfare, food safety standards, and the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, and labeling of the company's products. the company's manufacturing facilities and products are subject to continuous inspection by federal, state, and local authorities. claims or enforcement proceedings could be brought against the company in the future. the availability of government inspectors due to a government furlough could also cause disruption to the company's manufacturing facilities. additionally, the company is subject to new or modified laws, regulations, and accounting standards. the company's failure or inability to comply with such requirements could subject the company to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls, or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions. the company is subject to stringent environmental regulation and potentially subject to environmental litigation, proceedings, and investigations. the company's past and present business operations and ownership and operation of real property are subject to stringent federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment and the handling and disposition of wastes (including solid and hazardous wastes) or otherwise relating to protection of the environment. compliance with these laws and regulations, as well as any modifications, is material to the company's business. some of the company's facilities have been in operation for many years and, over time, the company and other prior operators of these facilities may have generated and disposed of wastes that now may be considered hazardous. future discovery of contamination of property underlying or in the vicinity of the company's present or former properties or manufacturing facilities and/or waste disposal sites could require the company to incur additional expenses related to additional investigation, assessment or other requirements. the occurrence of any of these events, the implementation of new laws and regulations, or stricter interpretation of existing laws or regulations could adversely affect the company's financial results. the company's foreign operations pose additional risks to the company's business. the company operates its business and markets its products internationally. the company's foreign operations are subject to the risks described above, as well as risks related to fluctuations in currency values, foreign currency exchange controls, compliance with foreign laws, compliance with applicable u.s. laws, including the foreign corrupt practices act, and other economic or political uncertainties. international sales are subject to risks related to general economic conditions, imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other restrictions, enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions and compliance with applicable foreign laws, and other economic and political uncertainties. all of these risks could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, which could adversely affect the company's financial results. the company may be adversely impacted if the company is unable to protect information technology systems against, or effectively respond to, cyber-attacks or security breaches. information technology systems are an important part of the company's business operations. attempted cyber-attack and other cyber incidents are occurring more frequently and are being made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise. in addition, the company is in the middle of a transformation project (project orion) to achieve better analytics, customer service, and process efficiencies through the use of oracle cloud solutions. this project is expected to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of certain financial and business transaction processes and the underlying systems environment. implementation is expected to occur in phases over the next several years, beginning in fiscal 2020. such an implementation is a major undertaking from a financial, management, and personnel perspective. the implementation of the enterprise resource planning system may prove to be more difficult, costly, or time consuming than expected, and there can be no assurance that this system will be beneficial to the extent anticipated. in an attempt to mitigate these risks, the company has implemented and continues to evaluate security initiatives and business continuity plans. deterioration of labor relations or increases in labor costs could harm the company's business. as of october 27, 2019 , the company had approximately 18,800 employees worldwide, of which approximately 3,310 were represented by labor unions, principally the united food and commercial workers union. a significant increase in labor costs or a deterioration of labor relations at any of the company's facilities or contracted hog processing facilities resulting in work slowdowns or stoppages could harm the company's financial results. the union contract at one of the company's facilities will expire during fiscal 2020, covering less than 200 employees. negotiations are expected to begin in december 2019. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 29 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk hog markets: the company's earnings are affected by fluctuations in the live hog market. to minimize the impact on earnings and ensure a steady supply of quality hogs, the company has entered into contracts with producers for the purchase of hogs at formula-based prices over periods of up to 10 years. hogs purchased under contract accounted for 93 percent and 96 percent of the total hogs purchased by the company during fiscal 2019 and 2018, respectively. the majority of these contracts use market-based formulas based on hog futures, hog primal values, or industry reported hog markets. other contracts use a formula based on the cost of production, which can fluctuate independently from hog markets. the company's value-added branded portfolio helps mitigate changes in hog and pork market prices. therefore, a hypothetical 10 percent change in the cash hog market would have had an immaterial effect on the company's results of operations. the company utilizes a hedge program to reduce exposure and offset the fluctuations in the company's future direct hog purchases. this program utilizes lean hog futures which are accounted for under cash flow hedge accounting. the fair value of the company's open futures contracts in this program as of october 27, 2019 , was $5.8 million, before tax, compared to $0.7 million, before tax, as of october 28, 2018. the company measures its market risk exposure on its lean hog futures contracts using a sensitivity analysis, which considers a hypothetical 10 percent change in the market prices for lean hogs. a 10 percent decrease in the market price for lean hogs would have negatively impacted the fair value of the company's october 27, 2019 , open lean hog contracts by $19.5 million, which in turn would lower the company's future cost on purchased hogs by a similar amount. turkey production costs: the company raises or contracts for live turkeys to meet the majority of its raw material supply requirements. production costs in raising turkeys are subject primarily to fluctuations in feed prices and, to a lesser extent, fuel costs. under normal, long-term market conditions, changes in the cost to produce turkeys are offset by proportional changes in the turkey market. the company utilizes a hedge program to reduce exposure and offset the fluctuation in the company's future direct grain purchases. this program utilizes corn futures for jennie-o turkey store, and these contracts are accounted for under cash flow hedge accounting. the fair value of the company's open futures contracts as of october 27, 2019 , was $(2.2) million, before tax, compared to $(1.3) million, before tax, as of october 28, 2018. the company measures its market risk exposure on its grain futures contracts using a sensitivity analysis, which considers a hypothetical 10 percent change in the market prices for grain. a 10 percent decrease in the market price for grain would have negatively impacted the fair value of the company's october 27, 2019 , open grain contracts by $9.5 million, which in turn would lower the company's future cost on purchased grain by a similar amount. other input costs: the costs of raw materials, packaging materials, freight, fuel, and energy may cause the company's results to fluctuate significantly. to manage input cost volatility, the company pursues cost saving measures, forward pricing, derivatives, and pricing actions when necessary. investments: the company has corporate-owned life insurance policies classified as trading securities as part of a rabbi trust to fund certain supplemental executive retirement plans and deferred income plans. as of october 27, 2019 , the balance of these securities totaled $157.5 million compared to $137.3 million as of october 28, 2018. a majority of these securities represent fixed income funds. the company is subject to market risk due to fluctuations in the value of the remaining investments as unrealized gains and losses associated with these securities are included in the company's net earnings on a mark-to-market basis. a 10 percent decline in the value of the investments not held in fixed income funds would have a negative impact to the company's pretax earnings of approximately $7.0 million, while a 10 percent increase in value would have a positive impact of the same amount. international assets: the fair values of certain company assets are subject to fluctuations in foreign currencies. the company's net asset position in foreign currencies as of october 27, 2019 , was $543.8 million, compared to $687.7 million as of october 28, 2018 , with most of the exposure existing in chinese yuan and brazilian real. changes in currency exchange rates impact the fair values of the company assets either currently through the consolidated statements of operations within interest and investment income or through the consolidated statements of financial position within accumulated other comprehensive loss. the company measures its foreign currency exchange risk by using a 10 percent sensitivity analysis on the company's primary foreign net asset position, the chinese yuan and the brazilian real, as of october 27, 2019 . a 10 percent strengthening in the value of the yuan relative to the u.s. dollar would result in other comprehensive income of approximately $33.7 million pretax. a 10 percent weakening in the value of the yuan relative to the u.s. dollar would result in other comprehensive loss of approximately $27.6 million pretax. a 10 percent strengthening in the value of the real relative to the u.s. dollar would result in other comprehensive income of approximately $13.0 million pretax. a 10 percent weakening in the value of the real relative to the u.s. dollar would result in other comprehensive loss of approximately $10.7 million pretax.risk factors 6 risk factors business and operational risks deterioration of economic conditions could harm the company's business. the company's business may be adversely affected by changes in national or global economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, tax rates, availability of capital, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges), political developments, civil unrest, and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. decreases in consumer spending rates and shifts in consumer product preferences could also negatively impact the company. volatility in financial markets and the deterioration of national and global economic conditions could impact the company's operations as follows: the financial stability of our customers and suppliers may be compromised, which could result in additional bad debts for the company or non-performance by suppliers; and the value of our investments in debt and equity securities may decline, including most significantly the company's trading securities held as part of a rabbi trust to fund supplemental executive retirement plans and deferred income plans, and the company's assets held in pension plans. the company utilizes hedging programs to manage its exposure to various commodity market risks, which qualify for hedge accounting for financial reporting purposes. volatile fluctuations in market conditions could cause these instruments to become ineffective, which could require any gains or losses associated with these instruments to be reported in the company's earnings each period. these instruments may limit the company's ability to benefit from market gains if commodity prices become more favorable than those secured under the company's hedging programs. the company's goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are initially recorded at fair value and are not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. impairment testing requires judgement around estimates and assumptions and is impacted by factors such as revenue growth rates, operating margins, tax rates, royalty rates, and discount rates. an unfavorable change in these factors may lead to the impairment of goodwill and/or intangible assets. additionally, if a highly pathogenic human disease outbreak developed in the united states, it may negatively impact the national economy, demand for company products, and/or the company's workforce availability, and the company's financial results could suffer. the company has developed contingency plans to address infectious disease scenarios and the potential impact on its operations, and will continue to update these plans as necessary. there can be no assurance given, however, these plans will be effective in eliminating the negative effects of any such diseases on the company's operating results. the uncertain and rapidly changing covid-19 pandemic could adversely affect the company's business, financial condition and results of operations. the ongoing covid-19 global pandemic has had, and will likely continue to have, negative impacts across many of the company's business units and facilities. the company's operations and business have been impacted directly and indirectly by various government actions taken to stop or slow the spread of covid-19, including travel restrictions, border shutdowns, stay-at-home and shelter-in-place orders, shutdowns of non-essential businesses, and emergency declarations. the near- and long-term impacts of covid-19 are unknown and impossible to predict with any level of certainty. at this time, the following potential risk factors arising from covid-19 pandemic have had and/or may continue to cause one or more of the following impacts on the company's operations: one or more of the company's manufacturing facilities may be shut down or have their operations significantly impacted due to employee illnesses, increased absenteeism, and/or actions by government agencies. capital projects may be delayed as additional capacity is no longer currently needed. the company's co-manufacturers and material suppliers may face similar impacts. regulatory restrictions and measures taken at the company's facilities to prevent or slow down the spread of covid-19 may impact facilities' efficiency. operating costs may increase as measures are put in place to prevent or slow down the spread of covid-19, such as facility improvements, employee testing, short-term disability policies, and manufacturing employee bonus payments. any new or additional measures required by national, state or local governments to combat covid-19 may similarly add additional operational costs. ongoing closure or reduced operations at foodservice establishments may impact results for the company's foodservice business. bankruptcy filings and/or delinquent payments from foodservice industry or other customers may negatively impact cash flow. a national and/or global economic downturn may impact consumer purchase behavior, such as reduced foodservice volume, lower volume in premium brands, and potential loss of business to private label. it may become more difficult and/or expensive to obtain debt or equity financing necessary to sustain the company's operations, make capital expenditures, and/or finance future acquisitions. the company may face litigation by stockholders, employees, suppliers, customers, consumers, and others relating to covid-19 and its effects. 6 table of contents the company relies on its dedicated employees, many of whom have a long tenure with the company. operations may be negatively impacted if members of the company's leadership team, or other key employees, become ill with covid-19 or otherwise terminate their employment as a result of covid-19. further, the company may face challenges hiring, onboarding, and training new employees, including leadership, which may impact results. the company also may face operational challenges if government quarantine orders restrict movement of employees. it is possible that the covid-19 pandemic could negatively affect the company's labor availability, relations, or labor costs. in accordance with recommendations to reduce large gatherings and increase social distancing, many of the company's office-based employees are working remotely, which may bring additional information technology and data security risks. supply chain disruptions of various types arising from covid-19 may impact the company's ability to make products, the cost for such products, and the ability to deliver products to customers. closure or reduced operations of material suppliers could result in shortages of key raw materials, as well as impact prices for those materials. the volatility in the market for raw material and supplies could impact the company's profitability. national, state, and local government orders closing or limiting operation of borders and ports, or imposing quarantine, could impact the company's ability to obtain raw materials and to deliver finished goods to customers. covid-19 has wide-reaching impacts to society and the business making all decisions, interactions, and transactions significantly more complex. the company is committed to being transparent through communications to inform shareholders, employees, customers, consumers, and others about the enhanced safety protocols implemented. the company must keep pace with a rapidly changing media environment. if the company's public relations efforts are not effective or if consumers perceive them to be irresponsible, the company's competitive position, reputation, and market share may suffer. the company has already seen several of these risks materialize. the extent of the impact on the company's business, financial condition and results of operations is dependent on the length and severity of the pandemic. the covid-19 pandemic is an unprecedented situation and the company's understanding of its impacts is changing and evolving. the additional risk factors identified here are based upon information known at this time. the covid-19 pandemic may adversely impact the company's operations in one or more ways not identified to date. the company's operations are subject to the general risks associated with acquisitions and divestitures. the company has made several acquisitions and divestitures in recent years, most recently the acquisition of sadler's smokehouse, that align with the company's strategic initiative of delivering long-term value to shareholders. the company regularly reviews strategic opportunities to grow through acquisitions and to divest non-strategic assets. potential risks associated with these transactions include the inability to consummate a transaction on favorable terms, the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, the potential loss of key employees and customers of current or acquired companies, the inability to integrate or divest operations successfully, the possible assumption of unknown liabilities, potential disputes with buyers or sellers, potential impairment charges if purchase assumptions are not achieved, and the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which the company has limited or no prior experience. any or all of these risks could impact the company's financial results and business reputation. in addition, acquisitions outside the united states may present unique challenges and increase the company's exposure to the risks associated with foreign operations. the company is subject to disruption of operations at co-manufacturers, suppliers, or other third-party service providers. disruption of operations at co manufacturers or other suppliers may impact the company's product or raw material supply, which could have an adverse effect on the company's financial results. additionally, actions taken to mitigate the impact of any potential disruption, including increasing inventory in anticipation of a potential production or supply interruption, may adversely affect the company's financial results. the company regularly engages third-party service providers to support various business functions such as benefit plan administration, payroll processing, information technology, and cloud computing services. a disruption in services from these partners could have an adverse effect on the company's business. the company is subject to the loss of a material contract. the company is a party to several supply, distribution, contract packaging and other material contracts. the loss of a material contract could adversely affect the company's financial results. the company currently sources approximately 30% of its pork raw materials from wholestone farms, llc (wholestone) under a supply agreement expiring in december 2021. the company is in negotiations with wholestone as well as evaluating alternative procurement options. the company may be adversely impacted if the company is unable to protect information technology systems against, or effectively respond to, cyber-attacks or security breaches. information technology systems are an important part of the company's business operations. in addition, the company increasingly relies upon third-party service providers for a variety of business functions, including cloud-based services. attempted cyber-attack and other cyber incidents are occurring more frequently and are being made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise. in addition, the company is in the midst of a multi-year transformation project (project orion) to achieve better analytics, customer service, and process efficiencies through the use of oracle cloud solutions. this project is expected to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of certain financial and business transaction processes and the underlying systems environment. the initial phase to implement the human resource and payroll process was deployed during the first quarter of fiscal 2020. 7 table of contents during the third quarter of fiscal 2020, the company implemented the finance phase of the project. additional integrations are expected to take place over the next few years. such an implementation is a major undertaking from a financial, management, and personnel perspective. the implementation of the enterprise resource planning system may prove to be more difficult, costly, or time consuming than expected, and there can be no assurance that this system will be beneficial to the extent anticipated. in an attempt to mitigate these risks, the company has implemented and continues to evaluate security initiatives and business continuity plans. deterioration of labor relations or increases in labor costs could harm the company's business. as of october 25, 2020, approximately 3,470 of the company's employees were represented by labor unions, principally the united food and commercial workers union. a significant increase in labor costs or a deterioration of labor relations at any of the company's facilities or co-manufacturing facilities resulting in work slowdowns or stoppages could harm the company's financial results. industry risks the company's operations are subject to the general risks of the food industry. the food products manufacturing industry is subject to the risks posed by: food spoilage; food contamination caused by disease-producing organisms or pathogens, such as listeria monocytogenes , salmonella , and pathogenic e coli .; food allergens; nutritional and health-related concerns; federal, state, and local food processing controls; consumer product liability claims; product tampering; and the possible unavailability and/or expense of liability insurance. the pathogens that may cause food contamination are found generally in livestock and in the environment and thus may be present in our products. these pathogens can also be introduced to our products as a result of improper handling by customers or consumers. we do not have control over handling procedures once our products have been shipped for distribution. if one or more of these risks were to materialize, the company's brand and business reputation could be negatively impacted. in addition, revenues could decrease, costs of doing business could increase, and the company's operating results could be adversely affected. outbreaks of disease among livestock and poultry flocks could harm the company's revenues and operating margins. the company is subject to risks associated with the outbreak of disease in pork and beef livestock, and poultry flocks, including african swine fever (asf), bovine spongiform encephalopathy (bse), pneumo-virus, porcine circovirus 2 (pcv2), porcine reproduction &amp; respiratory syndrome (prrs), foot-and-mouth disease (fmd), porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (pedv), and highly pathogenic avian influenza (hpai). the outbreak of such diseases could adversely affect the company's supply of raw materials, increase the cost of production, reduce utilization of the company's harvest facilities, and reduce operating margins. additionally, the outbreak of disease may hinder the company's ability to market and sell products both domestically and internationally. in recent years, the outbreak of asf has impacted hog herds in china, asia, and europe. if an outbreak of asf were to occur in the united states, the company's supply of hogs and pork could be materially impacted. the company has developed business continuity plans for various disease scenarios and will continue to update these plans as necessary. there can be no assurance given, however, that these plans will be effective in eliminating the negative effects of any such diseases on the company's operating results. fluctuations in commodity prices and availability of pork, poultry, beef, feed grains, avocados, peanuts, and energy could harm the company's earnings. the company's results of operations and financial condition are largely dependent upon the cost and supply of pork, poultry, beef, feed grains, avocados, and peanuts as well as energy costs and the selling prices for many of our products, which are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand. the live hog industry has evolved to large, vertically-integrated operations using long-term supply agreements. typically, this results in fewer hogs being available on the cash spot market. consequently, the company uses long-term supply contracts priced on market-based formulas or the cost of production to ensure a stable supply of raw materials while minimizing extreme fluctuations in costs over the long-term. this may result, in the short-term, in higher live hog costs compared to the cash spot market, depending on the relationship of the cash spot market to contract prices. market-based pricing on certain product lines, and lead time required to implement pricing adjustments, may prevent all or part of these cost increases from being recovered, and these higher costs could adversely affect our short-term financial results. jennie-o turkey store raises turkeys and contracts with turkey growers to meet its raw material requirements for whole birds and processed turkey products. results in these operations are affected by the cost and supply of feed grains, which fluctuates due to climate conditions, production forecasts, and supply and demand conditions at local, regional, national, and worldwide 8 table of contents markets. the company attempts to manage some of its short-term exposure to fluctuations in feed prices by forward buying, using futures contracts, and pursuing pricing advances. however, these strategies may not be adequate to overcome sustained increases in market prices due to alternate uses for feed grains or other changes in these market conditions. the supplies of natural and organic proteins may impact the company's ability to ensure a continuing supply of these products. to mitigate this risk, the company partners with multiple long-term suppliers. international trade barriers and other restrictions could result in decreased foreign demand and increased domestic supply of proteins, thereby potentially lowering prices. the company occasionally utilizes in-country production to limit this exposure. market demand for the company's products may fluctuate. the company faces competition from producers of alternative meats and protein sources, including pork, beef, turkey, chicken, fish, nut butters, whey, and plant-based proteins. the factors on which the company competes include: price; product quality and attributes; brand identification; breadth of product line; and customer service. demand for the company's products is also affected by competitors' promotional spending, the effectiveness of the company's advertising and marketing programs, and consumer perceptions. failure to identify and react to changes in food trends such as sustainability of product sources and animal welfare could lead to, among other things, reduced demand for the company's brands and products. the company may be unable to compete successfully on any or all of these factors in the future. legal and regulatory risks the company's operations are subject to the general risks of litigation. the company is involved on an ongoing basis in litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. trends in litigation may include class actions involving employees, consumers, competitors, suppliers, shareholders, or injured persons, and claims relating to product liability, contract disputes, antitrust regulations, intellectual property, advertising, labeling, wage and hour laws, employment practices or environmental matters. neither litigation trends nor the outcomes of litigation can be predicted with certainty and adverse litigation trends and outcomes could negatively affect the company's financial results. government regulation, present and future, exposes the company to potential sanctions and compliance costs that could adversely affect the company's business. the company's operations are subject to extensive regulation by the u.s. department of homeland security, the u.s. department of agriculture, the u.s. food and drug administration, federal and state taxing authorities and other federal, state, and local authorities which oversee workforce immigration, taxation, animal welfare, food safety, and the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, and labeling of the company's products. the company's manufacturing facilities and products are subject to ongoing inspection by federal, state and local authorities. claims or enforcement proceedings could be brought against the company in the future. the availability of government inspectors due to a government furlough could also cause disruption to the company's manufacturing facilities. additionally, the company is subject to new or modified laws, regulations, and accounting standards. the company's failure or inability to comply with such requirements could subject the company to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions. the company is subject to stringent environmental regulation and potentially subject to environmental litigation, proceedings, and investigations. the company's past and present business operations and ownership and operation of real property are subject to stringent federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment and the handling and disposition of wastes (including solid and hazardous wastes) or otherwise relating to protection of the environment. compliance with these laws and regulations, as well as any modifications, is material to the company's business. some of the company's facilities have been in operation for many years and, over time, the company and other prior operators of these facilities may have generated and disposed of wastes that now may be considered hazardous. future discovery of contamination of property underlying or in the vicinity of the company's present or former properties or manufacturing facilities and/or waste disposal sites could require the company to incur additional expenses related to additional investigation, assessment or other requirements. the occurrence of any of these events, the implementation of new laws and regulations or stricter interpretation of existing laws or regulations could adversely affect the company's financial results. the company's foreign operations pose additional risks to the company's business. the company operates its business and markets its products internationally. the company's foreign operations are subject to the risks described above, as well as risks related to fluctuations in currency values, foreign currency exchange controls, compliance with foreign laws, compliance with applicable u.s. laws, including the foreign corrupt practices act, and other economic or political uncertainties. international sales are subject to risks related to general economic conditions, imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other restrictions, enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions and compliance with applicable foreign laws, and other economic and political uncertainties. all of these risks could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, which could adversely affect the company's financial results. 9 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 25 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk hog markets: the company's earnings are affected by fluctuations in the live hog market. to minimize the impact on earnings and ensure a steady supply of quality hogs, the company has entered into contracts with producers for the purchase of hogs at formula-based prices over periods of up to 10 years. hogs purchased under contract accounted for 95 percent and 93 percent of the total hogs purchased by the company during fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively. the majority of these contracts use market-based formulas based on hog futures, hog primal values, or industry reported hog markets. other contracts use a formula based on the cost of production, which can fluctuate independently from hog markets. the company's value-added branded portfolio helps mitigate changes in hog and pork market prices. therefore, a hypothetical 10 percent change in the cash hog market would have had an immaterial effect on the company's results of operations. the company utilizes a hedge program to reduce exposure and offset the fluctuations in the company's future direct hog purchases. this program utilizes lean hog futures which are accounted for under cash flow hedge accounting. the fair value of the company's open futures contracts in this program as of october 25, 2020, was $3.1 million compared to $5.8 million as of october 27, 2019. the company measures its market risk exposure on its lean hog futures contracts using a sensitivity analysis, which considers a hypothetical 10 percent change in the market prices for lean hogs. a 10 percent decrease in the market price for lean hogs would have negatively impacted the fair value of the company's october 25, 2020, open lean hog contracts by $9.3 million, which in turn would lower the company's future cost on purchased hogs by a similar amount. turkey production costs: the company raises or contracts for live turkeys to meet the majority of its raw material supply requirements. production costs in raising turkeys are subject primarily to fluctuations in feed prices and, to a lesser extent, fuel costs. under normal, long-term market conditions, changes in the cost to produce turkeys are offset by proportional changes in the turkey market. the company utilizes a hedge program to reduce exposure and offset the fluctuation in the company's future direct grain purchases. this program utilizes corn futures for jennie-o turkey store, and these contracts are accounted for under cash flow hedge accounting. the fair value of the company's open futures contracts as of october 25, 2020, was $(0.1) million compared to $(2.2) million as of october 27, 2019. the company measures its market risk exposure on its grain futures contracts using a sensitivity analysis, which considers a hypothetical 10 percent change in the market prices for grain. a 10 percent decrease in the market price for grain would have negatively impacted the fair value of the company's october 25, 2020, open grain contracts by $7.2 million, which in turn would lower the company's future cost on purchased grain by a similar amount. other input costs: the costs of raw materials, packaging materials, freight, fuel, and energy may cause the company's results to fluctuate significantly. to manage input cost volatility, the company pursues cost saving measures, forward pricing, derivatives, and pricing actions when necessary. investments: the company has corporate-owned life insurance policies classified as trading securities as part of a rabbi trust to fund certain supplemental executive retirement plans and deferred income plans. as of october 25, 2020, the balance of these securities totaled $173.1 million compared to $157.5 million as of october 27, 2019. a majority of these securities represent fixed income funds. the company is subject to market risk due to fluctuations in the value of the remaining investments as unrealized gains and losses associated with these securities are included in the company's net earnings on a mark-to-market basis. a 10 percent decline in the value of the investments not held in fixed income funds would have a negative impact to the company's pretax earnings of approximately $8.4 million, while a 10 percent increase in value would have a positive impact of the same amount. international assets: the fair values of certain company assets are subject to fluctuations in foreign currencies. the company's net asset position in foreign currencies as of october 25, 2020, was $541.2 million, compared to $543.8 million as of october 27, 2019, with most of the exposure existing in chinese yuan and brazilian real. changes in currency exchange rates impact the fair values of the company assets either currently through the consolidated statements of operations within interest and investment income or through the consolidated statements of financial position within accumulated other comprehensive loss. the company measures its foreign currency exchange risk by using a 10 percent sensitivity analysis on the company's primary foreign net asset position, the chinese yuan and the brazilian real, as of october 25, 2020. a 10 percent strengthening in the value of the chinese yuan relative to the u.s. dollar would result in other comprehensive income of approximately $40.7 million pretax. a 10 percent weakening in the value of the chinese yuan relative to the u.s. dollar would result in other comprehensive loss of approximately $33.3 million pretax. a 10 percent strengthening in the value of the brazilian real relative to the u.s. dollar would result in other comprehensive income of approximately $10.4 million pretax. a 10 percent weakening in the value of the brazilian real relative to the u.s. dollar would result in other comprehensive loss of approximately $8.5 million pretax.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information on the company's exposure to market risk is included in the management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on page 27 of the annual stockholders' report for the year ended october 26, 2002, is incorporated herein by reference. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information on the company's exposure to market risk is included in the management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 27 and 28 of the annual stockholders' report for the year ended october 25, 2003, is incorporated herein by reference.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk item 8. financial statements and supplementary data item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure item 9a. controls and procedures item 9b. other information part iii item 10. directors and executive officers of the registrant item 11. executive compensation item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters item 13. certain relationships and related transactions item 14. principal accountant fees and services part iv item 15. exhibits and financial statement schedules signatures 2 part i item 1. business (a) general development of business hormel foods corporation, a delaware corporation (the company), was founded by george a. hormel in 1891 in austin, minnesota, as george a. hormel &amp; company. the company started as a processor of meat and food products and continues in this line of business. the company name was changed to hormel foods corporation on january 31, 1995. the company is primarily engaged in the production of a variety of meat and food products and the marketing of those products throughout the united states. although pork and turkey remain the major raw materials for hormel products, the company has emphasized for several years the manufacture and distribution of branded, consumer packaged items rather than the commodity fresh meat business. the company branding strategy led to the development of a joint venture between hormel foods corporation and cargill meat solutions corporation (formerly excel corporation), a wholly owned subsidiary of cargill incorporated. this joint venture began marketing and selling nationally branded fresh case ready beef and pork under the existing hormel always tender brand name in fiscal year 2003. this 51 percent owned joint venture, named precept foods, llc, is based in austin, minn. in fiscal 2001, the jennie-o turkey store, inc. (jots) business was formed as a result of merging the company existing jennie-o foods, inc. business with the operations of the turkey store company, which was acquired in the second quarter of fiscal 2001. the turkey store company was a turkey processing business headquartered in barron, wisconsin. the merged jots operation is currently the largest turkey processor in the world. jots markets its turkey products through its own sales force and independent brokers. the acquisitions of diamond crystal brands nutritional products in fiscal 2001 and the century foods international business in july of fiscal 2003 strengthened the company presence in the nutritional food products and supplements market. the company currently operates as one of the largest companies providing nutritional products to the u.s. healthcare industry. the company acquired the diamond crystal brands, inc. business from imperial sugar co. in december of fiscal 2003. diamond crystal brands packages and sells various sugar, sugar substitute, salt and pepper products, savory products, drink mixes, and dessert mixes to retail and foodservice customers. during the third quarter of fiscal 2004, the company completed the sale of vista international packaging, inc., its food packaging subsidiary in kenosha, wisconsin. the company acquired the assets of concept foods inc. (concept) in october of fiscal 2004. concept was renamed alma foods, llc upon acquisition, and manufactures a wide variety of fully cooked entrees. on december 29, 2004, subsequent to the fiscal 2004 year end, the company acquired all of the stock of clougherty packing company (clougherty). clougherty is a privately held southern california pork processor and creator of the farmer john brand of pork products popular throughout the southwestern united states. internationally, the company markets its products through hormel foods international corporation (hfic), a wholly owned subsidiary. hfic has a presence in the international marketplace through joint ventures and placement of personnel in strategic foreign locations such as china, australia, and the philippines. hfic also has a global presence with minority positions in food companies in mexico (hormel alimentos, 50% holding) and the philippines (purefoods-hormel, 40% holding). 3 the company has not been involved in any bankruptcy, receivership, or similar proceedings during its history. substantially all of the assets of the company have been acquired in the ordinary course of business. the company had no significant change in the type of products produced or services rendered, or in the markets or methods of distribution since the beginning of the fiscal year. (b) industry segment the company business is reported in five segments: grocery products, refrigerated foods, jennie-o turkey store, specialty foods, and all other. the contributions of each segment to net sales to unaffiliated customers and operating profit, and the presentation of certain other financial information by segment are reported in note k of the notes to consolidated financial statements and in the management discussion and analysis of the annual stockholder report for the year ended october 30, 2004, incorporated herein by reference. (c) description of business products and distribution the company products primarily consist of meat and other food products. the meat products are sold fresh, frozen, cured, smoked, cooked, and canned. the percentages of total revenues contributed by classes of similar products for the last three fiscal years of the company are as follows: year ended october 30, 2004 october 25, 2003 october 26, 2002 perishable meat 50.7 % 50.3 % 53.0 % nonperishable meat 16.9 18.9 19.8 poultry 22.0 22.1 22.6 other 10.4 8.7 4.6 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % reporting of revenues from external customers is based on similarity of products, as the same or similar products are sold across multiple distribution channels such as retail, foodservice, or international. revenues reported are based on financial information used to produce the company general-purpose financial statements. perishable meat includes fresh meats, sausages, hams, wieners, and bacon (excluding jots products.) nonperishable meat includes canned luncheon meats, shelf stable microwaveable entrees, stews, chilies, hash, meat spreads and other items that do not require refrigeration, as well as frozen processed products. the poultry category is composed primarily of jots products. the other category primarily consists of nutritional food products and supplements, sugar and sugar substitutes, salt and pepper products, dessert mixes, and industrial gelatin products. the other category has increased over the past two years primarily due to the acquisitions of century foods international (july 2003) and diamond crystal brands (december 2002). in fiscal 2004, the company launched the tetra recart packaging design for its hormel and stagg chili brands. the launch included the national roll-out of stagg chili, which had previously been sold only in markets west of the mississippi river. the company also introduced jennie-o turkey store oven ready turkey in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004. additionally, the company is currently marketing its new spam singles product in four test markets. these three initiatives are proceeding on target with company expectations. no other new product in fiscal 2004 required a material investment of the company assets. 4 domestically, the company sells its products in all 50 states. hormel products are sold through company sales personnel, operating in assigned territories coordinated from sales offices located in most of the larger u.s. cities, as well as independent brokers and distributors. during fiscal 2004, dedicated sales teams were also developed to serve major retail customers and coordinate sales of both grocery products and refrigerated foods products. as of october 30, 2004, the company had approximately 550 sales personnel engaged in selling its products. distribution of products to customers is by common carrier. through hfic, the company markets its products in various locations throughout the world. some of the larger markets include australia, canada, china, england, japan, mexico, and micronesia. the distribution of export sales to customers is by common carrier, while the china operations own and operate their own delivery system. the company, through hfic, has licensed companies to manufacture various hormel products internationally on a royalty basis, with the primary licensees being tulip international of denmark and cj corp. of south korea. raw materials the company has, for the past several years, been concentrating on processed branded products for consumers with year-round demand to minimize the seasonal variation experienced with commodity type products. pork continues to be the primary raw material for company products. although hog producers are moving toward larger, more efficient year-round confinement operations and supply contracts are becoming increasingly prevalent in the industry, there is still a seasonal variation in the supply of fresh pork materials. the company expanding line of processed items has reduced but not eliminated the sensitivity of company results to raw material supply and price fluctuations. livestock slaughtered by the company is purchased by company buyers and commission dealers at sale barns and terminal markets or under long-term supply contracts at locations principally in minnesota, illinois, iowa, nebraska, and south dakota. the cost of livestock and the utilization of the company facilities are affected by both the level and the methods of pork production in the united states. the hog production industry has been rapidly moving to very large, vertically integrated, year-round confinement operations operating under long-term supply agreements. this has resulted in fewer hogs being available on the spot cash market, which decreases the supply of hogs on the open market and can severely diminish the utilization of slaughter facilities and increase the cost of the raw materials they produce. the company, along with others in the industry, uses long-term supply contracts to manage the effects of this trend and to assure a stable supply of raw materials while minimizing extreme fluctuations in costs over the long-term. this may result in costs for live hogs that are either higher or lower than the spot cash market depending on the relationship of the cash spot market to contract prices. contract costs are fully reflected in the company reported financial results. in fiscal 2004, the company purchased 67 percent of its hogs under long-term supply contracts. in fiscal 2004, jots raised approximately 54 percent of the turkeys needed to meet its raw material requirements for whole bird and processed turkey products. turkeys not sourced within the company are contracted with independent turkey growers. jots turkey-raising farms are located throughout minnesota and wisconsin. production costs in raising turkeys are primarily subject to fluctuations in feed grain prices and to a lesser extent fuel costs. as part of the company risk management program, the company periodically hedges its anticipated purchases of grain using futures contracts. the company measures the effectiveness of these hedges on a regular basis and has determined all such hedges to be highly effective in reducing the company exposure to price fluctuations in the cash grain market. 5 manufacturing the company has plants in austin, minnesota; fremont, nebraska; and beijing, china that slaughter livestock for processing. quality pork processors of dallas, texas, operates the slaughter facility at austin under a custom slaughter arrangement. facilities that produce manufactured items are located in algona, iowa; alma, kansas; aurora, illinois; austin, minnesota; beloit, wisconsin; bondurant, iowa; browerville, minnesota; ft. dodge, iowa; fremont, nebraska; houston, texas; knoxville, iowa; long prairie, minnesota; mitchellville, iowa; osceola, iowa; perrysburg, ohio; quakertown, pennsylvania; rochelle, illinois; savannah, georgia; sparta, wisconsin; stockton, california; tucker, georgia; visalia, california; wichita, kansas; beijing, china; and shanghai, china. company products are also custom manufactured by several other companies. the following are the company larger custom manufacturers: lakeside packing company, manitowoc, wisconsin; schroeder milk, maplewood, minnesota; steuben foods, jamaica, new york; power packaging, st. charles, illinois; criders, stilmore, georgia; and tony downs, st. james, minnesota. power logistics, inc., based in st. charles, illinois, operates distribution centers for the company in dayton, ohio, and osceola, iowa. the company turkey slaughter and processing operations are located in barron, wisconsin; faribault, minnesota; melrose, minnesota; montevideo, minnesota; pelican rapids, minnesota; and willmar, minnesota. patents and trademarks there are numerous patents and trademarks that are important to the company business. the company holds seven foreign and 48 u.s. issued patents. some of the trademarks are registered and some are not. in recognition of the importance of these assets, the company created a subsidiary, hormel foods, llc, in 1998 to create, own, maintain and protect most of the company trademarks and patents. some of the more significant owned or licensed trademarks used in the company segments are: hormel, always tender, american classics, austin blues, black label, carapelli, chi-chi s, cure 81, curemaster, dan prize, di lusso, dinty moore, dubuque, el torito, fast n easy, herb-ox, herdez, homeland, house of tsang, jennie-o turkey store, kid kitchen, layout, little sizzlers, marrakesh express, mary kitchen, old smokehouse, patak s, peloponnese, pillow pack, range brand, rosa, sandwich maker, spam, stagg, sweet thing, thick &amp; easy and wranglers. customers and backlog orders during fiscal year 2004, no customer accounted for more than 10 percent of total company sales. the five largest customers in each segment make up approximately the following percentage of segment sales: 33 percent of grocery products, 35 percent of refrigerated foods, 32 percent of jots, 37 percent of specialty foods, and 40 percent of all other. the loss of one or more of the top customers in any of these segments could have a material adverse effect on the results of such segment. backlog orders are not significant due to the perishable nature of a large portion of the products. orders are accepted and shipped on a current basis. competition the production and sale of meat and food products in the united states and internationally are highly competitive. the company competes with manufacturers of pork and turkey products, as well as national and regional producers of other meat and protein sources, such as beef, chicken, and fish. the company 6 believes that its largest domestic competitors for its refrigerated foods segment in 2004 were tyson foods, smithfield foods and conagra foods; for its grocery products segment, conagra foods, dial corp. and campbell soup co.; and for jots, conagra foods and cargill, inc. all hormel segments compete on the basis of price, product quality, brand identification, and customer service. through aggressive marketing and strong quality assurance programs, the company strategy is to provide higher quality products that possess strong brand recognition, which would then support higher value perceptions from customers. the company competes using this same strategy in international markets around the world. research and development research and development continues to be a vital part of the company strategy to extend existing brands and expand into new branded items. the expenditures for research and development for fiscal 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively, were approximately $15,944,000, $13,165,000, and $12,097,000. there are 51 professional employees engaged in full time research, 23 in the area of improving existing products and 28 in developing new products. employees as of october 30, 2004, the company had approximately 15,600 active employees. (d) geographic areas total revenues attributed to the u.s. and all foreign countries in total for the last three fiscal years of the company are as follows (in thousands): year ended october 30, 2004 october 25, 2003 october 26, 2002 united states 4,565,134 4,027,520 3,706,104 foreign 214,741 172,808 204,210 4,779,875 4,200,328 3,910,314 revenues from external customers are classified as domestic or foreign based on the final customer destination. no individual foreign country is material to the consolidated results. additionally, the company long-lived assets located in foreign countries are not significant. (e) available information the company makes available, free of charge on its website at www.hormel.com , its annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934. these reports are accessible under the investor caption of the company website and are available as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the securities and exchange commission, which is within 24 hours. the company has adopted a code of ethical business conduct that covers its officers and directors, which is available on the company website, free of charge, under the caption corporate. the company also adopted corporate governance guidelines, which are available on the company website, free of charge, under the caption investor. the company board of directors conducts its business through meetings of the board and the following standing committees: audit, compensation, contingency, governance, employee benefits, and 7 executive. each of the audit, compensation, governance, employee benefits, and executive committees has adopted and operates under a written charter. charters for the audit, compensation, and governance committees are available on the company website, free of charge, under the caption investor corporate governance. the documents noted above are also available in print, free of charge, to any stockholder who requests them. (f) executive officers of the registrant year first current office and previous elected name age five years experience dates officer joel w. johnson 61 chairman of the board and chief executive officer 06/28/04 to present 1991 chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer 12/08/95 to 06/27/04 jeffrey m. ettinger 46 president and chief operating officer 06/28/04 to present 1998 group vice president/president and 03/03/03 to 06/27/04 chief executive officer jennie-o turkey store group vice president/president and 10/29/01 to 03/02/03 chief operating officer jennie-o turkey store vice president/president and chief 4/30/01 to 10/28/01 operating officer jennie-o turkey store vice president/president and chief 01/31/00 to 04/29/01 executive officer jennie-o foods vice president/vice president jennie-o foods 11/01/99 to 01/30/00 treasurer 04/27/98 to 10/31/99 michael j. mccoy 57 executive vice president and chief financial officer 10/29/01 to present 1996 senior vice president and chief financial 05/01/00 to 10/28/01 officer vice president and controller 04/27/98 to 04/30/00 vice president and treasurer 01/27/97 to 04/26/98 gary j. ray 58 executive vice president (refrigerated foods) 11/01/99 to present 1988 executive vice president (operations) 07/27/92 to 10/31/99 steven g. binder 47 group vice president (foodservice) 10/30/00 to present 1998 vice president (foodservice) 11/02/98 to 10/29/00 richard a. bross 53 group vice president/president 10/29/01 to present 1995 hormel foods international corporation vice president/president hormel 11/01/99 to 10/28/01 foods international corporation vice president (grocery products) 01/30/95 to 10/31/99 ronald w. fielding 51 group vice president (consumer products sales) 07/26/04 to present 1997 group vice president (sales strategy) 06/02/03 to 07/25/04 group vice president (meat products) 11/01/99 to 06/01/03 vice president/president hormel 01/27/97 to 10/31/99 foods international corporation james a. jorgenson 60 senior vice president (corporate staff) 11/01/99 to present 1990 vice president (human resources) 12/30/91 to 10/31/99 mahlon c. schneider 65 senior vice president external affairs and 11/01/99 to 12/31/04 1990 general counsel vice president and general counsel 11/19/90 to 10/31/99 thomas r. day 46 vice president (foodservice sales) 10/30/00 to present 2000 director (foodservice sales) 11/02/98 to 10/29/00 forrest d. dryden 61 vice president (research and development) 01/26/87 to present 1987 jody h. feragen 48 vice president and treasurer 10/29/01 to present 2000 treasurer 10/30/00 to 10/28/01 assistant treasurer, national computer systems in eden prairie, minnesota, a data collection and software company 12/01/95 to 10/29/00 8 year first current office and previous elected name age five years experience dates officer dennis b. goettsch 51 vice president (foodservice marketing) 10/30/00 to present 2000 director (foodservice marketing) 10/01/90 to 10/29/00 daniel a. hartzog 53 vice president (consumer products sales) 07/26/04 to present 2000 vice president (meat products sales) 10/30/00 to 07/25/04 director (meat products business development) 07/03/00 to 10/29/00 regional sales manager (meat products) 09/19/88 to 07/02/00 kurt f. mueller 48 vice president (consumer products sales) 07/26/04 to present 1999 vice president (fresh pork sales and marketing) 11/01/99 to 07/25/04 director (fresh pork sales and marketing) 02/03/97 to 10/31/99 gary c. paxton 59 vice president (specialty foods group) 09/29/03 to present 1992 vice president (specialty foods group and prepared 12/30/02 to 09/28/03 foods operations) vice president (prepared foods operations) 11/01/99 to 12/29/02 vice president (manufacturing) 01/27/92 to 10/31/99 larry j. pfeil 55 vice president (engineering) 11/01/99 to present 1999 director (engineering) 01/04/99 to 10/31/99 douglas r. reetz 50 vice president (consumer products sales) 07/26/04 to present 1999 vice president (grocery products sales) 11/01/99 to 07/25/04 director (grocery products sales and business 09/15/97 to 10/31/99 development) james n. sheehan 49 vice president and controller 05/01/00 to present 1999 treasurer 11/01/99 to 04/30/00 president hormel financial services corporation 09/21/98 to 10/31/99 william f. snyder 47 vice president (refrigerated foods operations) 11/01/99 to present 1999 director (fresh pork operations) 09/27/99 to 10/31/99 james m. splinter 42 vice president (marketing-consumer products- 06/02/03 to present 2003 refrigerated foods) senior vice president retail division jennie-o turkey 04/30/01 to 06/01/03 store senior vice president sales and marketing jennie-o 09/06/99 to 04/29/01 turkey store joe c. swedberg 49 vice president (legislative affairs and marketing 06/02/03 to present 1999 services) vice president (meat products marketing) 11/01/99 to 06/01/03 director (meat products marketing) 01/04/93 to 10/31/99 larry l. vorpahl 41 vice president and general manager (grocery 12/01/03 to present 1999 products) vice president (grocery products marketing) 11/01/99 to 11/30/03 director (grocery products marketing) 09/30/96 to 10/31/99 michael d. tolbert 48 vice president/president jennie-o turkey store 05/31/04 to present 2004 chief information officer 01/28/02 to 05/30/04 director of business development (grocery products) 05/01/00 to 01/27/02 grocery products national manager business 11/18/96 to 04/30/00 development james w. cavanaugh 56 senior vice president external affairs and general counsel 01/01/05 to present 2001 corporate secretary and senior attorney 01/29/01 to present assistant secretary and senior attorney 01/29/90 to 01/28/01 no family relationship exists among the executive officers. executive officers are elected annually by the board of directors at the first meeting following the annual meeting of stockholders. vacancies may be filled and additional officers elected at any regular or special meeting. 9 item 2. properties approximate floor space lease (square feet) owned or expiration location unless noted leased date hormel foods corporation slaughtering and processing plants austin, minnesota 1,292,000 owned fremont, nebraska 661,000 owned processing plants algona, iowa 153,000 owned alma, kansas 70,000 owned aurora, illinois 141,000 owned beloit, wisconsin 339,000 owned ft. dodge, iowa 17,000 owned houston, texas 93,000 owned knoxville, iowa 130,000 owned osceola, iowa 334,000 owned quakertown, pennsylvania 13,000 owned rochelle, illinois 440,000 owned sparta, wisconsin 385,000 owned stockton, california 139,000 owned tucker, georgia 259,000 owned wichita, kansas 80,000 owned warehouse/distribution centers austin, minnesota annex 83,000 owned dayton, ohio 140,000 owned eldridge, iowa 280,000 leased september, 2005 osceola, iowa 233,000 owned stockton, california 232,000 leased july, 2007 tucker, georgia 96,000 leased september, 2009 research and development center austin, minnesota 79,000 owned corporate offices austin, minnesota 203,000 owned dan prize, inc. browerville, minnesota plant 52,000 owned long prairie, minnesota plant 80,000 owned jennie-o turkey store, inc. plants barron, wisconsin 372,000 owned faribault, minnesota 170,000 owned melrose, minnesota 127,000 owned montevideo, minnesota 85,000 owned pelican rapids, minnesota 224,000 owned willmar, minnesota 508,000 owned 10 feed mills atwater, minnesota 19,000 owned barron, wisconsin 26,000 owned dawson, minnesota 37,000 owned faribault, minnesota 21,000 owned henning, minnesota 5,000 owned northfield, minnesota 17,000 owned perham, minnesota 26,000 owned swanville, minnesota 29,000 owned other barron, wisconsin hatchery 37,000 owned detroit lakes, minnesota hatchery 31,000 owned henning, minnesota hatchery 22,000 owned melrose, minnesota warehouse 9,000 owned turkey farms *14,500 owned willmar, minnesota warehouses 25,000 owned mountain prairie, llc las animas, colorado hog confinement buildings 707,000 leased various: september 2007 - december 2008 beijing hormel foods co. ltd. beijing, china plant 68,000 76.4% owned shanghai hormel foods co. ltd. shanghai, china plant 38,000 80.7% owned diamond crystal brands, inc. bondurant, iowa plant 68,000 owned mitchellville, iowa plants 81,000 owned perrysburgh, ohio 183,000 owned savannah, georgia 353,000 owned visalia, california 107,000 owned * acres many of these properties are not exclusive to any one of the company segments and a few of the properties are utilized in all five segments of the company. the company has renovation or building projects in progress at austin, minnesota; fremont, nebraska; rochelle, illinois; osceola, iowa; bondurant, iowa; and at various jots locations. the company believes its operating facilities are well maintained and suitable for current production volumes and all volumes anticipated in the foreseeable future. item 3. legal proceedings the company knows of no pending material legal proceedings. 11 item 4. submission of matters to a vote of security holders no matters were submitted to shareholders during the fourth quarter of the 2004 fiscal year. part ii item 5. market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities the high and low closing price of the company common stock and the dividends per share declared for each fiscal quarter of 2004 and 2003, respectively, are shown below: 2004 high low dividend first quarter $ 27.45 $ 23.80 $ .1125 second quarter 31.04 26.54 .1125 third quarter 31.63 29.06 .1125 fourth quarter 29.70 26.00 .1125 2003 high low dividend first quarter $ 24.30 $ 21.76 $ .1050 second quarter 22.60 20.18 .1050 third quarter 24.98 22.41 .1050 fourth quarter 24.15 21.25 .1050 additional information about dividends, principal market of trade and number of stockholders on page 49 of the annual stockholders report for the year ended october 30, 2004, is incorporated herein by reference. the company common stock has been listed on the new york stock exchange since january 16, 1990. issuer purchases of equity securities in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2004 are shown below: period total number of shares purchased (1) average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs (2) maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs (2) july 25, 2004 - august 28, 2004 261,700 $ 28.39 261,700 9,029,072 august 29, 2004 - september 25, 2004 354,700 27.11 354,300 8,674,772 september 26, 2004 - october 30, 2004 276,400 26.62 276,400 8,398,372 total 892,800 $ 27.34 892,400 ( 1) shares repurchased during the quarter, other than through publicly announced plans or programs, represent purchases for the company employee awards program. (2) in october 2002, the company board of directors authorized the company to repurchase up to 10,000,000 shares of common stock with no expiration date. item 6. selected financial data selected financial data for the five years ended october 30, 2004, on page 16 of the annual stockholders report for the year ended october 30, 2004, is incorporated herein by reference. 12 item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation information in the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 16 through 29 of the annual stockholders report for the year ended october 30, 2004, is incorporated herein by reference. item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information on the company exposure to market risk is included in the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on page 29 of the annual stockholders report for the year ended october 30, 2004, and is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors information on the company risk factors included in the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 32 through 34 of the annual stockholders report for the year ended october 30, 2005, is incorporated herein by reference. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 16 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information on the company exposure to market risk included in the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on page 34 of the annual stockholders report for the year ended october 30, 2005, is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors information on the company risk factors included in the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 34 through 36 of the annual stockholders report for the year ended october 29, 2006, is incorporated herein by reference. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 12risk factors information on the company risk factors included in the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 32 through 34 of the annual stockholders report for the year ended october 28, 2007, is incorporated herein by reference. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 13 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information on the company exposure to market risk included in the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 34 and 35 of the annual stockholders report for the year ended october 28, 2007, is incorporated herein by reference. 13risk factors 8 risk factors information on the company risk factors included in the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 31 through 33 of the annual stockholders report for the year ended october 26, 2008, is incorporated herein by reference. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 11 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information on the company exposure to market risk included in the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 34 and 35 of the annual stockholders report for the year ended october 26, 2008, is incorporated herein by reference. 11 table of contentsrisk factors 8 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information on the company exposure to market risk included in the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 34 and 35 of the annual stockholders report for the fiscal year ended october 25, 2009, is incorporated herein by reference. 12 table of contentsrisk factors 8 risk factors information on the company risk factors included in the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 26 through 28 of the annual stockholders report for the fiscal year ended october 31, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information on the company exposure to market risk included in the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 28 and 29 of the annual stockholders report for the fiscal year ended october 31, 2010, is incorporated herein by reference. 12 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors information on the company risk factors included in the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 27 through 29 of the annual stockholders report for the fiscal year ended october 30, 2011, is incorporated herein by reference. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 13 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information on the company exposure to market risk included in the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 29 and 30 of the annual stockholders report for the fiscal year ended october 30, 2011, is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 7 risk factors information on the company risk factors included in the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 27 through 29 of the annual stockholders report for the fiscal year ended october 28, 2012, is incorporated herein by reference. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information on the company exposure to market risk included in the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 29 and 30 of the annual stockholders report for the fiscal year ended october 28, 2012, is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 7 risk factors information on the company risk factors included in the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 27 through 29 of the annual stockholders report for the fiscal year ended october 27, 2013, is incorporated herein by reference. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information on the company exposure to market risk included in the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on page 30 of the annual stockholders report for the fiscal year ended october 27, 2013, is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 7 risk factors information on the company risk factors included in the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 27 through 29 of the annual stockholders report for the fiscal year ended october 26, 2014, is incorporated herein by reference. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information on the company exposure to market risk included in the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on page 30 of the annual stockholders report for the fiscal year ended october 26, 2014, is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 7 risk factors information on the company risk factors included in the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 28 through 31 of the annual stockholders report for the fiscal year ended october 25, 2015, is incorporated herein by reference. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information on the company exposure to market risk included in the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 31 through 32 of the annual stockholders report for the fiscal year ended october 25, 2015, is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors 8 risk factors information on the company risk factors included in the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 32 through 35 of the annual stockholders report for the fiscal year ended october 30, 2016, is incorporated herein by reference. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information on the company exposure to market risk included in the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on page 35 of the annual stockholders report for the fiscal year ended october 30, 2016, is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors information on the company risk factors included in the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 32 through 34 of the annual stockholders report for the fiscal year ended october 29, 2017, is incorporated herein by reference. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information on the company exposure to market risk included in the management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 34 and 35 of the annual stockholders report for the fiscal year ended october 29, 2017, is incorporated herein by reference.