risk factors 5 risk factors described below and elsewhere in this report and other documents that we file from time to time with the securities and exchange commission are risks, uncertainties and other factors that can adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. adverse changes in general business and economic conditions in the united states and worldwide may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. adverse changes in general business and economic conditions in the united states and worldwide may reduce the demand for some of our products and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. higher inflation rates, interest rates, tax rates and unemployment rates, higher labor and healthcare costs, recessions, changing governmental policies, laws and regulations, and other economic factors could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. the duration and severity of global economic and financial conditions may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. a worsening of global economic and financial conditions may adversely impact our net sales, the collection of accounts receivable, funding for working capital needs, expected cash flow generation from current and acquired businesses, and our investments, which may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we finance a portion of our sales through trade credit. the current global economic and financial conditions have caused some customers to be less profitable and have increased our exposure to credit risk. in addition, due to the tightening of credit markets, some customers who require financing for their businesses have not been able to obtain necessary financing. continuation of these conditions could limit our ability to collect our accounts receivable, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. 5 we generally fund a portion of our seasonal working capital needs and obtain funding for other general corporate purposes through short-term borrowings backed by our revolving credit facility and other financing facilities. if any of the banks in these credit and financing facilities are unable to perform on their commitments, which could adversely affect our ability to fund seasonal working capital needs and obtain funding for other general corporate purposes, our cash flow, liquidity or financial condition could be adversely impacted. although we currently have available credit facilities to fund our current operating needs, we cannot be certain that we will be able to replace our existing credit facilities or refinance our existing or future debt when necessary. our cost of borrowing and ability to access the capital markets are affected not only by market conditions, but also by our debt and credit ratings assigned by the major credit rating agencies. downgrades in these ratings will increase our cost of borrowing and could have an adverse effect on our access to the capital markets, including our access to the commercial paper market. an inability to access the capital markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we have goodwill and intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. we periodically evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of our goodwill and intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that such value may not be recoverable. impairment assessment involves judgment as to assumptions regarding future sales and cash flows and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions. future events and changing market conditions may impact our assumptions and may result in changes in our estimates of future sales and cash flows that may result in us incurring substantial impairment charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we hold investments in equity and debt securities in some of our defined benefit pension plans. a decrease in the value of plan assets resulting from a general financial downturn may cause a negative pension plan investment performance, which may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. protracted duration of economic downturns in cyclical segments of the economy may continue to depress the demand for some of our products and adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition. portions of our business involve the sale of paint, coatings and related products to segments of the economy that are cyclical in nature, particularly segments relating to construction, housing and manufacturing. our sales to these segments are affected by the levels of discretionary consumer and business spending in these segments. during economic downturns in these segments, the levels of consumer and business discretionary spending may decrease, and the recovery of these segments may lag behind the recovery of the overall economy. this decrease in spending will likely reduce the demand for some of our products and may adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition. during the recent recession, the u.s. homebuilding industry experienced a significant and sustained decrease in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale. during this same time period, the u.s. real estate industry also experienced a significant decrease in existing home turnover. the commercial and industrial building and maintenance sectors also experienced a significant decline. the downturn in each of these segments contributed to an unprecedented decline in the demand for some of our products. new home starts, existing home sales and new commercial construction are significantly below their pre-recession highs. although many of our end markets have started to show signs of stabilization and modest improvement, the recovery has been erratic and challenging market conditions are expected to continue for the foreseeable future and may worsen. a worsening in these segments will continue to reduce the demand for some of our products and may adversely impact sales, earnings and cash flow. increases in the cost of raw materials and energy may adversely affect our earnings or cash flow. we purchase raw materials and energy for use in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products. factors such as adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes, and other disasters can disrupt raw material and fuel supplies and increase our costs. in addition, many raw material suppliers decreased manufacturing capacity during the recent recession. continued economic recovery has caused and may continue to cause demand pressure on raw material supplies. the decrease in manufacturing capacity, along with strong global demand for certain raw materials, has caused and may continue to cause tight supplies and significant price increases, especially in titanium dioxide and petrochemicals, which are key ingredients used in the manufacture of paint and coatings. although raw materials and energy supplies (including oil and natural gas) are generally available from various sources in sufficient quantities, unexpected shortages and increases in the cost of raw materials and energy, or any deterioration in our relationships with or the financial viability of our suppliers, may have an adverse effect on our earnings or cash flow in the event we are unable to offset higher costs in a timely manner by sufficiently decreasing our operating costs or raising the prices of our products. many of our paint and coatings products utilize oil based derivatives, minerals (including titanium dioxide) and metals. while we have experienced some easing of the prices of certain raw materials recently, raw material pricing has in the past and likely will in the future experience periods of volatility. 6 although we have an extensive customer base, the loss of any of our largest customers could adversely affect our sales, earnings or cash flow. we have a large and varied customer base due to our extensive distribution network. during 2012 , no individual customer accounted for sales totaling more than ten percent of our sales. however, we have some customers that, individually, purchase a large amount of products from us. although our broad distribution channels help to minimize the impact of the loss of any one customer, the loss of any of these large customers could have an adverse effect on our sales, earnings or cash flow. adverse weather conditions may temporarily reduce the demand for some of our products and could have a negative effect on our sales, earnings or cash flow. from time to time, adverse weather conditions in certain parts of the united states have had an adverse effect on our sales of paint, coatings and related products. for example, unusually cold and rainy weather, especially during the exterior painting season, could have an adverse effect on sales of our exterior paint products. an adverse effect on sales may cause a reduction in our earnings or cash flow. increased competition may reduce our sales, earnings or cash flow performance. we face substantial competition from many international, national, regional and local competitors of various sizes in the manufacture, distribution and sale of our paint, coatings and related products. some of our competitors are larger than us and have greater financial resources to compete. other competitors are smaller and may be able to offer more specialized products. technology, product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, distribution, service and price are the key competitive factors for our business. competition in any of these areas may reduce our sales and adversely affect our earnings or cash flow by resulting in decreased sales volumes, reduced prices and increased costs of manufacturing, distributing and selling our products. our planned acquisition of comex may not occur at all or may not occur in the expected time frame, which may negatively affect the trading prices of our stock and our future business and financial results. on november 9, 2012, we and sherwin-williams (caribbean) n.v., one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, entered into a definitive stock purchase agreement to purchase all of the issued and outstanding shares of consorcio comex, s.a. de c.v. and conaxe, s.a. de c.v., for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $2.34 billion in cash, including assumed debt. founded in 1952, comex is a privately held business with operations in latin america, the united states and canada. in 2011, comex had total annual sales of approximately u.s. $1.4 billion. completion of the planned acquisition of comex is not assured and there is no assurance that it will be completed. the closing of the acquisition is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of customary closing conditions, including, among others, the consent, waiver or authorization of the federal antitrust commission of mexico and the national commission of foreign investments of mexico, both of which are under review. the acquisition is subject to risks and uncertainties, including the risk that the necessary regulatory approvals are not obtained or that other closing conditions are not satisfied. if the acquisition is not completed, or if there are significant delays in completing the acquisition, it could negatively affect the trading prices of our common stock and our future business and financial results. our obligation to complete the comex acquisition is not subject to a financing condition. our obligation to complete the comex acquisition is not subject to a financing condition. in december 2012, we incurred $1 billion of indebtedness by issuing senior notes due 2017 and 2042, a portion of which we plan to use to pay part of the purchase price of the acquisition. we also plan to pay part of the purchase price of the acquisition by borrowing through existing credit facilities and other financing facilities, which we may refinance by issuing additional long-term debt in the future. if any of the banks in these credit and financing facilities are unable to perform their commitments, we may be required to finance a portion of the purchase price of the acquisition at interest rates higher than currently expected. if we are unable to borrow the necessary funds to complete the acquisition, or if we are not otherwise able to pay the purchase price, we may not be able to complete the acquisition and will be in breach of the purchase agreement. we may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies of the comex acquisition at all or in the expected time frame. the success of the comex acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies from combining and integrating the comex business with our existing business during a challenging global economic environment. we may not be able to achieve expected objectives, or may not able to achieve these objectives on a timely basis, and the anticipated benefits and synergies therefore may not be realized fully or at all. the acquisition involves challenges and risks, including risks that the transaction does not advance our business strategy or that we will not realize a satisfactory return. the challenges include, among others (i) the diversion of the attention of management and other employees to integration matters; (ii) difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, 7 business opportunities and growth prospects from combining the business of comex with our existing business; (iii) difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a larger and more complex company with an expanded presence in latin america; (iv) challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; and (v) challenges in retaining key employees and integrating a workforce while maintaining focus on providing high quality customer service. any integration difficulties could decrease or eliminate the anticipated benefits and synergies of the acquisition and could negatively affect the trading prices of our stock and our future business and financial results. to service our debt, we will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. we also depend on the business of our subsidiaries to satisfy our cash needs. if we cannot generate the required cash, we may not be able to make the necessary payments required under our indebtedness. at december 31, 2012, we had total debt of approximately $1.7 billion , a significant increase over our total debt of approximately $990 million at december 31, 2011. we have the ability under our existing credit facilities to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, and we plan to incur significant additional indebtedness in the event we complete the comex acquisition. our ability to make payments on our debt, fund our other liquidity needs, and make planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. our historical financial results have been, and we anticipate that our future financial results will be, subject to fluctuations. our ability to generate cash, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from our operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to make payments of our debt, fund our other liquidity needs and make planned capital expenditures. the degree to which we are currently leveraged and will be leveraged following the completion of the comex acquisition could have important consequences to shareholders. for example, it could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to enable us to react to changes in our business; or place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have less debt. additionally, any failure to comply with covenants in the instruments governing our debt could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, would have a material adverse effect on us. a significant portion of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. as a result, our ability to generate sufficient cash flow for our needs is dependent to some extent on the earnings of our subsidiaries and the payment of those earnings to us in the form of dividends, loans or advances and through repayment of loans or advances from us. our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities. our subsidiaries have no obligation to pay any amounts due on our debt or to provide us with funds to meet our cash flow needs, whether in the form of dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. in addition, any payment of dividends, loans or advances by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions. payments to us by our subsidiaries will also be contingent upon our subsidiaries' earnings and business considerations. our right to receive any assets of any of our subsidiaries upon their liquidation or reorganization will be effectively subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary's creditors, including trade creditors. in addition, even if we are a creditor of any of our subsidiaries, our rights as a creditor would be subordinate to any security interest in the assets of our subsidiaries and any indebtedness of our subsidiaries senior to that held by us. finally, changes in the laws of foreign jurisdictions in which we operate may adversely affect the ability of some of our foreign subsidiaries to repatriate funds to us. our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition may be negatively impacted if we do not successfully integrate past and future acquisitions into our existing operations and if the performance of the businesses we acquire do not meet our expectations. we have historically made strategic acquisitions of businesses in the paint and coatings industry and will likely acquire additional businesses in the future as part of our long-term growth strategy. in 2011, we acquired leighs paints, a leading industrial fire protection coatings manufacturer headquartered in the united kingdom. in 2012, we acquired geocel holdings corporation, which manufactures innovative caulks, sealants, and adhesives specially designed for tough construction and repair applications in commercial, residential, industrial and transport non-automotive markets. geocel has operations in both the united states and united kingdom. in 2012, we also acquired jiangsu pulanna coating co., ltd., a leading automotive refinishes coatings manufacturer in china. these acquisitions, along with the comex acquisition, involve challenges and risks. in the event that we do not successfully integrate these acquisitions into our existing operations so as to realize the expected return on our investment, our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition could be adversely affected. 8 risks and uncertainties associated with our expansion into and our operations in asia, europe, mexico, south america and other foreign markets could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. net external sales of our consolidated foreign subsidiaries totaled approximately 21.5%, 22.6% and 18.9% of our total consolidated net sales in 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. this percentage is expected to increase in 2013 in the event we complete the comex acquisition. sales outside of the united states make up a growing and significant part of our current business and future strategic plans. our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition could be adversely affected by a variety of international factors, including general economic conditions, inflation rates, recessions, foreign currency exchange rates, foreign currency exchange controls, interest rates, foreign investment and repatriation restrictions, legal and regulatory constraints, civil unrest, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and other external economic and political factors. our inability to successfully manage the risks and uncertainties relating to these factors could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. in many foreign countries, it is acceptable to engage in certain business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in because of regulations that are applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and the uk bribery act. although we have internal control policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these regulations, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will prevent a violation of these regulations. any violation could cause an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. because of our international operations, we are exposed to risk associated with interest rates and value changes in foreign currencies, which may adversely affect our business. historically, our reported net sales, earnings, cash flow and financial condition have been subjected to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. our primary exchange rate exposure is with the euro, the british pound, the argentine peso, the brazilian real, the chilean peso, the canadian dollar and the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar. while we actively manage the exposure of our foreign currency risk as part of our overall financial risk management policy, we believe we may experience losses from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, and such losses could adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we are subject to a wide variety of complex domestic and foreign laws and regulations, for which compliance could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. we are subject to a wide variety of complex domestic and foreign laws and regulations, and legal compliance risks, including securities laws, tax laws, employment and pension-related laws, competition laws, u.s. and foreign export and trading laws, and laws governing improper business practices. we are affected by new laws and regulations, and changes to existing laws and regulations, including interpretations by courts and regulators. from time to time, our company, our operations and the industries in which we operate are being reviewed or investigated by regulators, which could lead to enforcement actions or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages. although we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs to mitigate these risks, the global and diverse nature of our operations means that compliance risks will continue to exist. investigations, examinations and other proceedings, the nature and outcome of which cannot be predicted, will likely arise from time to time. these investigations, examinations and other proceedings could subject us to significant liability and require us to take significant accruals or pay significant settlements, fines and penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. we are subject to tax laws and regulations in the united states and multiple foreign jurisdictions. we are affected by changes in tax laws and regulations, as well as changes in related interpretations and other tax guidance. in the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to examinations and investigations by various tax authorities. in addition to existing examinations and investigations, there could be additional examinations and investigations in the future, and existing examinations and investigations could be expanded. for non-income tax risks, we estimate material loss contingencies and accrue for such loss contingencies as required by u.s. generally accepted accounting principles based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency. in the event the loss contingency is ultimately determined to be significantly higher than currently accrued, the recording of the additional liability may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such additional liability is accrued. in those cases where no accrual is recorded because it is not probable that a liability has been incurred and cannot be reasonably estimated, any potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued or paid. for income tax risks, we recognize tax benefits based on our assessment that a tax benefit has a greater than 9 50% likelihood of being sustained upon ultimate settlement with the applicable taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant facts. for those income tax positions where we assess that there is not a greater than 50% likelihood that such tax benefits will be sustained, we do not recognize a tax benefit in our financial statements. subsequent events may cause us to change our assessment of the likelihood of sustaining a previously-recognized benefit which could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial position for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued or paid. we discuss risks and uncertainties with regard to taxes in more detail in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 71 and 72 of our 2012 annual report. we are required to comply with numerous complex and increasingly stringent domestic and foreign health, safety and environmental laws and regulations, the cost of which is likely to increase and may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. our operations are subject to various domestic and foreign health, safety and environmental laws and regulations. these laws and regulations not only govern our current operations and products, but also impose potential liability on us for our past operations. we expect health, safety and environmental laws and regulations to impose increasingly stringent requirements upon our industry and us in the future. our costs to comply with these laws and regulations may increase as these requirements become more stringent in the future, and these increased costs may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. we are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of our currently and formerly owned sites, as well as a number of third-party sites, for which our ultimate liability may exceed the current amount we have accrued. we are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of our currently and formerly owned sites and a number of third-party sites. we accrue for estimated costs of investigation and remediation activities at these sites for which commitments or clean-up plans have been developed and when such costs can be reasonably estimated based on industry standards and professional judgment. these estimated costs are based on currently available facts regarding each site. we continuously assess our potential liability for investigation and remediation activities and adjust our environmental-related accruals as information becomes available upon which more accurate costs can be reasonably estimated. due to the uncertainties surrounding environmental investigation and remediation activities, our liability may result in costs that are significantly higher than currently accrued and may have an adverse affect on our earnings. we discuss these risks and uncertainties in more detail on page 23 of our 2012 annual report under the caption environmental matters, pages 27 and 29 of our 2012 annual report under the caption environmental-related liabilities and in note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 63 and 64 of our 2012 annual report. the nature, cost, quantity and outcome of pending and future litigation, such as litigation arising from the historical manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paint, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition. in the course of our business, we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits, including litigation relating to product liability and warranty, personal injury, environmental, intellectual property, commercial, contractual and antitrust claims that are inherently subject to many uncertainties regarding the possibility of a loss to us. these uncertainties will ultimately be resolved when one or more future events occur or fail to occur confirming the incurrence of a liability or the reduction of a liability. in accordance with the contingencies topic of the asc, we accrue for these contingencies by a charge to income when it is both probable that one or more future events will occur confirming the fact of a loss and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. in the event that a loss contingency is ultimately determined to be significantly higher than currently accrued, the recording of the additional liability may result in a material impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such additional liability is accrued. in those cases where no accrual is recorded because it is not probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of any such loss cannot be reasonably estimated, any potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us may result in a material impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued. in those cases where no accrual is recorded or exposure to loss exists in excess of the amount accrued, the contingencies topic of the asc requires disclosure of the contingency when there is a reasonable possibility that a loss or additional loss may have been incurred even if the possibility may be remote. our past operations included the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paints. along with other companies, we are a defendant in a number of legal proceedings, including individual personal injury actions, purported class actions and actions brought by various counties, cities, school districts and other government-related entities, arising from the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paints. the plaintiffs are seeking recovery based upon various legal theories, including negligence, strict liability, breach of warranty, negligent misrepresentations and omissions, fraudulent 10 misrepresentations and omissions, concert of action, civil conspiracy, violations of unfair trade practice and consumer protection laws, enterprise liability, market share liability, public nuisance, unjust enrichment and other theories. the plaintiffs seek various damages and relief, including personal injury and property damage, costs relating to the detection and abatement of lead-based paint from buildings, costs associated with a public education campaign, medical monitoring costs and others. we are also a defendant in legal proceedings arising from the manufacture and sale of non-lead-based paints which seek recovery based upon various legal theories, including the failure to adequately warn of potential exposure to lead during surface preparation when using non-lead-based paint on surfaces previously painted with lead-based paint. we believe that the litigation brought to date is without merit or subject to meritorious defenses and are vigorously defending such litigation. we expect that additional lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation may be filed against us in the future asserting similar or different legal theories and seeking similar or different types of damages and relief. notwithstanding our views on the merits, litigation is inherently subject to many uncertainties, and we ultimately may not prevail. adverse court rulings, such as the jury verdict against us and other defendants in the state of rhode island action and the wisconsin state supreme court's determination that wisconsin's risk contribution theory may apply in the lead pigment litigation, or determinations of liability, among other factors, could affect the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation against us and encourage an increase in the number and nature of future claims and proceedings. in addition, from time to time, various legislation and administrative regulations have been enacted, promulgated or proposed to impose obligations on present and former manufacturers of lead pigments and lead-based paints respecting asserted health concerns associated with such products or to overturn the effect of court decisions in which we and other manufacturers have been successful. due to the uncertainties involved, management is unable to predict the outcome of the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, the number or nature of possible future claims and proceedings, or the effect that any legislation and/or administrative regulations may have on the litigation or against us. in addition, management cannot reasonably determine the scope or amount of the potential costs and liabilities related to such litigation, or any such legislation and regulations. we have not accrued any amounts for such litigation. with respect to such litigation, including the public nuisance litigation, the company does not believe that it is probable that a loss has occurred, and it is not possible to estimate the range of potential losses as there is no prior history of a loss of this nature and there is no substantive information upon which an estimate could be based. in addition, any potential liability that may result from such legislation and regulations cannot reasonably be estimated. in the event any significant liability is determined to be attributable to us relating to such litigation, the recording of the liability may result in a material impact on net income for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued. additionally, due to the uncertainties associated with the amount of any such liability and/or the nature of any other remedy which may be imposed in such litigation, any potential liability determined to be attributable to us arising out of such litigation may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. an estimate of the potential impact on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition cannot be made due to the aforementioned uncertainties. the santa clara county, california proceeding is currently scheduled for trial in june 2013. the sole remaining claim in the proceeding is for public nuisance, and the plaintiffs seek the abatement of the alleged public nuisance that exists within the plaintiffs' jurisdictions. adverse court rulings or a determination of liability against us in the santa clara county, california proceeding could subject us and the other defendants to significant liabilities, costs and expenses to abate the presence of lead products for use in paint and coatings in, on and around buildings in the plaintiffs' jurisdictions and could encourage an increase in future public nuisance claims and proceedings. any adverse court rulings or any determinations of liability against us may result in a material impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we discuss the risks and uncertainties related to litigation, including the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, in more detail on page 23 of our 2012 annual report under the caption litigation and other contingent liabilities, and pages 31 through 34 of our 2012 annual report under the caption litigation of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in note 9 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 64 through 67 of our 2012 annual report. the costs or potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us due to our ownership of life shield could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we own life shield engineered systems, llc, which ceased operations in 2012. life shield developed and manufactured blast and fragment mitigating systems. the blast and fragment mitigating systems create a potentially higher level of product liability for us than is normally associated with coatings and related products we manufacture, distribute and sell. depending upon the extent of any potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us relating to life shield, such liability could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we discuss these risks and uncertainties in more detail on pages 30 and 31 of our 2012 annual report under the caption contingent liabilities of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 11 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 16 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk associated with interest rates, foreign currency and commodity fluctuations. we occasionally utilize derivative instruments as part of our overall financial risk management policy, but do not use derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes. the company entered into foreign currency option and forward currency exchange contracts during 2012 to hedge against value changes in foreign currency. there were no contracts outstanding at december 31, 2012 . foreign currency option and forward contracts are described in note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on page 71 of our 2012 annual report. we believe we may experience continuing losses from foreign currency fluctuations. however, we do not expect currency translation, transaction or hedging contract losses to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 16risk factors 5 risk factors described below and elsewhere in this report and other documents that we file from time to time with the securities and exchange commission are risks, uncertainties and other factors that can adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. adverse changes in general business and economic conditions in the united states and worldwide may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. adverse changes in general business and economic conditions in the united states and worldwide may reduce the demand for some of our products and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. higher inflation rates, interest rates, tax rates and unemployment rates, higher labor and healthcare costs, recessions, changing governmental policies, laws and regulations, and other economic factors could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. a weakening or reversal of the general economic recovery in the united states and other countries and regions in which we do business, or the continuation or worsening of the economic downturn in other countries and regions, may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. global economic uncertainty continues to exist. a weakening or reversal of the general economic recovery in the united states and other countries and regions in which we do business, or the continuation or worsening of the economic downturn in other countries and regions, may adversely impact our net sales, the collection of accounts receivable, funding for working 5 capital needs, expected cash flow generation from current and acquired businesses, and our investments, which may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we finance a portion of our sales through trade credit. credit markets remain tight, and some customers who require financing for their businesses have not been able to obtain necessary financing. a continuation or worsening of these conditions could limit our ability to collect our accounts receivable, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we generally fund a portion of our seasonal working capital needs and obtain funding for other general corporate purposes through short-term borrowings backed by our revolving credit facility and other financing facilities. if any of the banks in these credit and financing facilities are unable to perform on their commitments, which could adversely affect our ability to fund seasonal working capital needs and obtain funding for other general corporate purposes, our cash flow, liquidity or financial condition could be adversely impacted. although we currently have available credit facilities to fund our current operating needs, we cannot be certain that we will be able to replace our existing credit facilities or refinance our existing or future debt when necessary. our cost of borrowing and ability to access the capital markets are affected not only by market conditions, but also by our debt and credit ratings assigned by the major credit rating agencies. downgrades in these ratings will increase our cost of borrowing and could have an adverse effect on our access to the capital markets, including our access to the commercial paper market. an inability to access the capital markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we have goodwill and intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. we periodically evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of our goodwill and intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that such value may not be recoverable. impairment assessment involves judgment as to assumptions regarding future sales and cash flows and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions. future events and changing market conditions may impact our assumptions and may result in changes in our estimates of future sales and cash flows that may result in us incurring substantial impairment charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we hold investments in equity and debt securities in some of our defined benefit pension plans. a decrease in the value of plan assets resulting from a general financial downturn may cause a negative pension plan investment performance, which may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. protracted duration of economic downturns in cyclical segments of the economy may depress the demand for some of our products and adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition. portions of our business involve the sale of paint, coatings and related products to segments of the economy that are cyclical in nature, particularly segments relating to construction, housing and manufacturing. our sales to these segments are affected by the levels of discretionary consumer and business spending in these segments. during economic downturns in these segments, the levels of consumer and business discretionary spending may decrease, and the recovery of these segments may lag behind the recovery of the overall economy. this decrease in spending will likely reduce the demand for some of our products and may adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition. during the recent recession, the u.s. homebuilding industry experienced a significant and sustained decrease in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale. during this same time period, the u.s. real estate industry also experienced a significant decrease in existing home turnover. the commercial and industrial building and maintenance sectors also experienced a significant decline. the downturn in each of these segments contributed to an unprecedented decline in the demand for some of our products. the recovery in new home starts, existing home sales and new commercial construction has been sluggish and erratic in many markets and remain below their pre-recession highs. challenging market conditions are expected to continue for the foreseeable future and may worsen. a worsening in these segments will reduce the demand for some of our products and may adversely impact sales, earnings and cash flow. increases in the cost of raw materials and energy may adversely affect our earnings or cash flow. we purchase raw materials (including titanium dioxide and proplylene) and energy for use in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products. factors such as adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes, and other disasters can disrupt raw material and fuel supplies and increase our costs. in addition, many raw material suppliers decreased manufacturing capacity during the recent recession. continued economic recovery has caused and may continue to cause demand pressure on raw material supplies. the decrease in manufacturing capacity, along with strong global demand for certain raw materials, has caused and may continue to cause tight supplies and significant price increases, especially in titanium dioxide and petrochemicals, which are key ingredients used in the manufacture of paint and coatings. although raw materials and energy supplies (including oil and natural gas) are generally available from various sources in sufficient quantities, unexpected shortages and increases in the cost of raw materials and energy, or any deterioration in our relationships with or the financial viability of our suppliers, may have an adverse effect on our earnings or cash flow in the event we are unable to offset higher 6 costs in a timely manner by sufficiently decreasing our operating costs or raising the prices of our products. while we have experienced some easing of the prices of certain raw materials recently, raw material pricing has in the past and likely will in the future experience periods of volatility. although we have an extensive customer base, the loss of any of our largest customers could adversely affect our sales, earnings or cash flow. we have a large and varied customer base due to our extensive distribution network. during 2013 , no individual customer accounted for sales totaling more than ten percent of our sales. however, we have some customers that, individually, purchase a large amount of products from us. although our broad distribution channels help to minimize the impact of the loss of any one customer, the loss of any of these large customers could have an adverse effect on our sales, earnings or cash flow. adverse weather conditions may temporarily reduce the demand for some of our products and could have a negative effect on our sales, earnings or cash flow. from time to time, adverse weather conditions in certain parts of the united states have had an adverse effect on our sales of paint, coatings and related products. for example, unusually cold and rainy weather, especially during the exterior painting season, could have an adverse effect on sales of our exterior paint products. an adverse effect on sales may cause a reduction in our earnings or cash flow. increased competition may reduce our sales, earnings or cash flow performance. we face substantial competition from many international, national, regional and local competitors of various sizes in the manufacture, distribution and sale of our paint, coatings and related products. some of our competitors are larger than us and have greater financial resources to compete. other competitors are smaller and may be able to offer more specialized products. technology, product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, distribution, service and price are the key competitive factors for our business. competition in any of these areas may reduce our sales and adversely affect our earnings or cash flow by resulting in decreased sales volumes, reduced prices and increased costs of manufacturing, distributing and selling our products. our pending acquisition of the comex business in mexico may not occur, which may negatively affect the trading prices of our stock and our future business and financial results. on november 9, 2012, we and sherwin-williams (caribbean) n.v., one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, entered into a definitive stock purchase agreement to purchase all of the issued and outstanding shares of consorcio comex, s.a. de c.v. and conaxe, s.a. de c.v., for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $2.34 billion in cash, including assumed debt. founded in 1952, comex is a privately held business with operations in latin america, and at the time, in the united states and canada. in 2011, comex had total annual sales of approximately u.s. $1.4 billion. on july 17, 2013, the federal competition commission of mexico (the "fcc") informed us that the acquisition of the comex business in mexico was not authorized, and a subsequent appeal to the fcc was also denied on october 29, 2013. in the meantime, on september 16, 2013, we completed the acquisition of the comex business in the united states and canada. also on september 16, 2013, the stock purchase agreement for the purchase of the comex business in mexico was amended and restated to extend the date by which the agreement can be terminated by either party to march 31, 2014 and to reflect a revised purchase price of approximately $2.25 billion. the closing of the pending acquisition of the comex business in mexico remains subject to the satisfaction or waiver of customary closing conditions, including, among others, the consent, waiver or authorization of the federal economic competition commission. completion of the acquisition is not assured, and there is no assurance that it will be completed. the acquisition is subject to risks and uncertainties, including the risk that the necessary regulatory approvals are not obtained or that other closing conditions are not satisfied. if the acquisition is not completed, or if there are significant delays in completing the acquisition, it could negatively affect the trading prices of our common stock and our future business and financial results. our obligation to complete the pending acquisition of the comex business in mexico is not subject to a financing condition. our obligation to complete the pending acquisition of the comex business in mexico is not subject to a financing condition. in december 2012, we incurred $1 billion of indebtedness by issuing senior notes due 2017 and 2042, a portion of which we plan to use to pay part of the purchase price of the acquisition. we also plan to pay part of the purchase price of the acquisition by borrowing through existing credit facilities and other financing facilities, which we may refinance by issuing additional long-term debt in the future. if any of the banks in these credit and financing facilities are unable to perform their commitments, we may be required to finance a portion of the purchase price of the acquisition at interest rates higher than currently expected. if we are unable to borrow the necessary funds to complete the acquisition, or if we are not otherwise able to pay the purchase price, we may not be able to complete the acquisition and will be in breach of the purchase agreement. 7 we may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies of the pending acquisition of the comex business in mexico at all or in the expected time frame. the success of the pending acquisition of the comex business in mexico will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies from combining and integrating the comex business with our existing business during a challenging global economic environment. we may not be able to achieve expected objectives, or may not able to achieve these objectives on a timely basis, and the anticipated benefits and synergies therefore may not be realized fully or at all. the acquisition involves challenges and risks, including risks that the transaction does not advance our business strategy or that we will not realize a satisfactory return. the challenges include, among others (i) the diversion of the attention of management and other employees to integration matters; (ii) difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from combining the business of comex with our existing business; (iii) difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a larger and more complex company with an expanded presence in latin america; (iv) challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; and (v) challenges in retaining key employees and integrating a workforce while maintaining focus on providing high quality customer service. any integration difficulties could decrease or eliminate the anticipated benefits and synergies of the acquisition and could negatively affect the trading prices of our stock and our future business and financial results. to service our debt, we will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. we also depend on the business of our subsidiaries to satisfy our cash needs. if we cannot generate the required cash, we may not be able to make the necessary payments required under our indebtedness. at december 31, 2013 and december 31, 2012, we had total debt of approximately $1.7 billion , a significant increase over our total debt of approximately $990 million at december 31, 2011. we have the ability under our existing credit facilities to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, and we plan to incur significant additional indebtedness in the event we complete the pending acquisition of the comex business in mexico. our ability to make payments on our debt, fund our other liquidity needs, and make planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. our historical financial results have been, and we anticipate that our future financial results will be, subject to fluctuations. our ability to generate cash, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from our operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to make payments of our debt, fund our other liquidity needs and make planned capital expenditures. the degree to which we are currently leveraged and will be leveraged following the completion of the pending acquisition of the comex business in mexico could have important consequences to shareholders. for example, it could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to enable us to react to changes in our business; or place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have less debt. additionally, any failure to comply with covenants in the instruments governing our debt could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, would have a material adverse effect on us. a significant portion of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. as a result, our ability to generate sufficient cash flow for our needs is dependent to some extent on the earnings of our subsidiaries and the payment of those earnings to us in the form of dividends, loans or advances and through repayment of loans or advances from us. our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities. our subsidiaries have no obligation to pay any amounts due on our debt or to provide us with funds to meet our cash flow needs, whether in the form of dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. in addition, any payment of dividends, loans or advances by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions. payments to us by our subsidiaries will also be contingent upon our subsidiaries' earnings and business considerations. our right to receive any assets of any of our subsidiaries upon their liquidation or reorganization will be effectively subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary's creditors, including trade creditors. in addition, even if we are a creditor of any of our subsidiaries, our rights as a creditor would be subordinate to any security interest in the assets of our subsidiaries and any indebtedness of our subsidiaries senior to that held by us. finally, changes in the laws of foreign jurisdictions in which we operate may adversely affect the ability of some of our foreign subsidiaries to repatriate funds to us. 8 our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition may be negatively impacted if we do not successfully integrate past and future acquisitions into our existing operations and if the performance of the businesses we acquire do not meet our expectations. we have historically made strategic acquisitions of businesses in the paint and coatings industry and will likely acquire additional businesses in the future as part of our long-term growth strategy. in 2012, we acquired geocel holdings corporation, which manufactures innovative caulks, sealants, and adhesives specially designed for tough construction and repair applications in commercial, residential, industrial and transport non-automotive markets. geocel has operations in both the united states and united kingdom. in 2012, we also acquired jiangsu pulanna coating co., ltd., a leading automotive refinishes coatings manufacturer in china. in 2013, we acquired the comex business in the united states and canada. these acquisitions, along with the pending acquisition of the comex business in mexico, involve challenges and risks. in the event that we do not successfully integrate these acquisitions into our existing operations so as to realize the expected return on our investment, our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition could be adversely affected. risks and uncertainties associated with our expansion into and our operations in asia, europe, mexico, south america and other foreign markets could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. net external sales of our consolidated foreign subsidiaries totaled approximately 20.9%, 21.5% and 22.6% of our total consolidated net sales in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. this percentage is expected to increase in 2014 in the event we complete the pending acquisition of the comex business in mexico. sales outside of the united states make up a growing and significant part of our current business and future strategic plans. our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition could be adversely affected by a variety of international factors, including general economic conditions, inflation rates, recessions, foreign currency exchange rates, foreign currency exchange controls, interest rates, foreign investment and repatriation restrictions, legal and regulatory constraints, civil unrest, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and other external economic and political factors. our inability to successfully manage the risks and uncertainties relating to these factors could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. in many foreign countries, it is acceptable to engage in certain business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in because of regulations that are applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and the uk bribery act. although we have internal control policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these regulations, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will prevent a violation of these regulations. any violation could cause an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. because of our international operations, we are exposed to risk associated with interest rates and value changes in foreign currencies, which may adversely affect our business. historically, our reported net sales, earnings, cash flow and financial condition have been subjected to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. our primary exchange rate exposure is with the euro, the british pound, the argentine peso, the brazilian real, the chilean peso, the canadian dollar and the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar. while we actively manage the exposure of our foreign currency risk as part of our overall financial risk management policy, we believe we may experience losses from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, and such losses could adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we are subject to a wide variety of complex domestic and foreign laws and regulations, for which compliance could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. we are subject to a wide variety of complex domestic and foreign laws and regulations, and legal compliance risks, including securities laws, tax laws, employment and pension-related laws, competition laws, u.s. and foreign export and trading laws, and laws governing improper business practices. we are affected by new laws and regulations, and changes to existing laws and regulations, including interpretations by courts and regulators. from time to time, our company, our operations and the industries in which we operate are being reviewed or investigated by regulators, which could lead to enforcement actions or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages. although we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs to mitigate these risks, the global and diverse nature of our operations means that compliance risks will continue to exist. investigations, examinations and other proceedings, the nature and outcome of which cannot be predicted, will likely arise from time to time. these investigations, examinations and other proceedings could subject us to significant liability and require us to take significant accruals or pay significant settlements, fines and penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. we are subject to tax laws and regulations in the united states and multiple foreign jurisdictions. we are affected by changes in tax laws and regulations, as well as changes in related interpretations and other tax guidance. in the ordinary course 9 of our business, we are subject to examinations and investigations by various tax authorities. in addition to existing examinations and investigations, there could be additional examinations and investigations in the future, and existing examinations and investigations could be expanded. for non-income tax risks, we estimate material loss contingencies and accrue for such loss contingencies as required by u.s. generally accepted accounting principles based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency. in the event the loss contingency is ultimately determined to be significantly higher than currently accrued, the recording of the additional liability may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such additional liability is accrued. in those cases where no accrual is recorded because it is not probable that a liability has been incurred and cannot be reasonably estimated, any potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued or paid. for income tax risks, we recognize tax benefits based on our assessment that a tax benefit has a greater than 50% likelihood of being sustained upon ultimate settlement with the applicable taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant facts. for those income tax positions where we assess that there is not a greater than 50% likelihood that such tax benefits will be sustained, we do not recognize a tax benefit in our financial statements. subsequent events may cause us to change our assessment of the likelihood of sustaining a previously-recognized benefit which could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial position for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued or paid. we discuss risks and uncertainties with regard to taxes in more detail in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 70 and 71 of our 2013 annual report. unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer, employee, supplier or company information, whether through a breach of our computer systems, including cyber attacks or otherwise, could severely harm our business. as part of our business, we collect, process, and retain sensitive and confidential personal information about our customers, employees and suppliers. despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of the retailers, dealers, licensees and other third party distributors with which we do business, may be vulnerable to security breaches, cyber attacks, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer, employee, supplier or company information, whether by us or by the retailers, dealers, licensees and other third party distributors with which we do business, could result in losses, severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and privacy is increasingly rigorous, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business, and compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs. we are required to comply with numerous complex and increasingly stringent domestic and foreign health, safety and environmental laws and regulations, the cost of which is likely to increase and may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. our operations are subject to various domestic and foreign health, safety and environmental laws and regulations. these laws and regulations not only govern our current operations and products, but also impose potential liability on us for our past operations. we expect health, safety and environmental laws and regulations to impose increasingly stringent requirements upon our industry and us in the future. our costs to comply with these laws and regulations may increase as these requirements become more stringent in the future, and these increased costs may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. we are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of our currently and formerly owned sites, as well as a number of third-party sites, for which our ultimate liability may exceed the current amount we have accrued. we are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of our currently and formerly owned sites and a number of third-party sites. we accrue for estimated costs of investigation and remediation activities at these sites for which commitments or clean-up plans have been developed and when such costs can be reasonably estimated based on industry standards and professional judgment. these estimated costs are based on currently available facts regarding each site. we continuously assess our potential liability for investigation and remediation activities and adjust our environmental-related accruals as information becomes available upon which more accurate costs can be reasonably estimated. due to the uncertainties surrounding environmental investigation and remediation activities, our liability may result in costs that are significantly higher than currently accrued and may have an adverse affect on our earnings. we discuss these risks and 10 uncertainties in more detail on page 23 of our 2013 annual report under the caption environmental matters, pages 27 and 29 of our 2013 annual report under the caption environmental-related liabilities and in note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 62 and 63 of our 2013 annual report. the nature, cost, quantity and outcome of pending and future litigation, such as litigation arising from the historical manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paint, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition. in the course of our business, we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits, including litigation relating to product liability and warranty, personal injury, environmental, intellectual property, commercial, contractual and antitrust claims that are inherently subject to many uncertainties regarding the possibility of a loss to us. these uncertainties will ultimately be resolved when one or more future events occur or fail to occur confirming the incurrence of a liability or the reduction of a liability. in accordance with the contingencies topic of the asc, we accrue for these contingencies by a charge to income when it is both probable that one or more future events will occur confirming the fact of a loss and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. in the event that a loss contingency is ultimately determined to be significantly higher than currently accrued, the recording of the additional liability may result in a material impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such additional liability is accrued. in those cases where no accrual is recorded because it is not probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of any such loss cannot be reasonably estimated, any potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us may result in a material impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued. in those cases where no accrual is recorded or exposure to loss exists in excess of the amount accrued, the contingencies topic of the asc requires disclosure of the contingency when there is a reasonable possibility that a loss or additional loss may have been incurred even if the possibility may be remote. our past operations included the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paints. along with other companies, we are a defendant in a number of legal proceedings, including individual personal injury actions, purported class actions and actions brought by various counties, cities, school districts and other government-related entities, arising from the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paints. the plaintiffs are seeking recovery based upon various legal theories, including negligence, strict liability, breach of warranty, negligent misrepresentations and omissions, fraudulent misrepresentations and omissions, concert of action, civil conspiracy, violations of unfair trade practice and consumer protection laws, enterprise liability, market share liability, public nuisance, unjust enrichment and other theories. the plaintiffs seek various damages and relief, including personal injury and property damage, costs relating to the detection and abatement of lead-based paint from buildings, costs associated with a public education campaign, medical monitoring costs and others. we are also a defendant in legal proceedings arising from the manufacture and sale of non-lead-based paints which seek recovery based upon various legal theories, including the failure to adequately warn of potential exposure to lead during surface preparation when using non-lead-based paint on surfaces previously painted with lead-based paint. we believe that the litigation brought to date is without merit or subject to meritorious defenses and are vigorously defending such litigation. we expect that additional lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation may be filed against us in the future asserting similar or different legal theories and seeking similar or different types of damages and relief. notwithstanding our views on the merits, litigation is inherently subject to many uncertainties, and we ultimately may not prevail. adverse court rulings, such as the court's decision in the santa clara county, california proceeding, the jury verdict against us and other defendants in the state of rhode island action and the wisconsin state supreme court's determination that wisconsin's risk contribution theory may apply in the lead pigment litigation, or determinations of liability, among other factors, could affect the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation against us and encourage an increase in the number and nature of future claims and proceedings. in addition, from time to time, various legislation and administrative regulations have been enacted, promulgated or proposed to impose obligations on present and former manufacturers of lead pigments and lead-based paints respecting asserted health concerns associated with such products or to overturn the effect of court decisions in which we and other manufacturers have been successful. due to the uncertainties involved, management is unable to predict the outcome of the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, the number or nature of possible future claims and proceedings, or the effect that any legislation and/or administrative regulations may have on the litigation or against us. in addition, management cannot reasonably determine the scope or amount of the potential costs and liabilities related to such litigation, or any such legislation and regulations. we have not accrued any amounts for such litigation. with respect to such litigation, including the public nuisance litigation, the company does not believe that it is probable that a loss has occurred, and it is not possible to estimate the range of potential losses as there is no prior history of a loss of this nature and there is no substantive information upon which an estimate could be based. in addition, any potential liability that may result from such legislation and regulations cannot reasonably be estimated. in the event any significant liability is determined to be attributable to us relating to such litigation, the recording of the liability may result in a material impact on net income for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued. additionally, due to the uncertainties associated with the amount of any such liability and/or the nature of any other 11 remedy which may be imposed in such litigation, any potential liability determined to be attributable to us arising out of such litigation may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. an estimate of the potential impact on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition cannot be made due to the aforementioned uncertainties. a trial commenced in the santa clara county, california proceeding on july 15, 2013 and ended on august 22, 2013. the court entered final judgment on january 27, 2014, finding in favor of the plaintiffs and against the company and two other defendants, and holding the company jointly and severally liable with the other two defendants to pay $1.15 billion into a fund to abate the public nuisance. the company has filed a motion for new trial and a motion to vacate the judgment, and will file a notice of appeal at the appropriate time. however, if the appeal process is unsuccessful at reversing the decision or otherwise reducing the amount of the judgment, we and the other defendants will be subject to significant liabilities, costs and expenses to abate the public nuisance in, on and around residences in the plaintiffs' jurisdictions and could encourage an increase in future public nuisance claims and proceedings. any adverse court rulings or any determinations of liability against us may result in a material impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we discuss the risks and uncertainties related to litigation, including the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, in more detail on page 23 of our 2013 annual report under the caption litigation and other contingent liabilities, and pages 31 through 34 of our 2013 annual report under the caption litigation of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in note 9 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 63 through 66 of our 2013 annual report. the costs or potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us due to our ownership of life shield could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we own life shield engineered systems, llc, which ceased operations in 2012. life shield developed and manufactured blast and fragment mitigating systems. the blast and fragment mitigating systems create a potentially higher level of product liability for us than is normally associated with coatings and related products we manufacture, distribute and sell. depending upon the extent of any potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us relating to life shield, such liability could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we discuss these risks and uncertainties in more detail on page 31 of our 2013 annual report under the caption contingent liabilities of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 18 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk associated with interest rates, foreign currency and commodity fluctuations. we occasionally utilize derivative instruments as part of our overall financial risk management policy, but do not use derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes. the company entered into foreign currency option and forward currency exchange contracts during 2013 to hedge against value changes in foreign currency. there were no contracts outstanding at december 31, 2013 . foreign currency option and forward contracts are described in note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on page 70 of our 2013 annual report. we believe we may experience continuing losses from foreign currency fluctuations. however, we do not expect currency translation, transaction or hedging contract losses to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 18risk factors 5 risk factors the risks described below and in other documents that we file from time to time with the securities and exchange commission could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. adverse changes in general business and economic conditions in the united states and worldwide may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. adverse changes in general business and economic conditions in the united states and worldwide may reduce the demand for some of our products and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. higher inflation rates, interest rates, tax rates and unemployment rates, higher labor and healthcare costs, recessions, changing governmental policies, laws and regulations, and other economic factors could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. a weakening or reversal of the general economic recovery in the united states and other countries and regions in which we do business, or the continuation or worsening of the economic downturn in other countries and regions, may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. global economic uncertainty continues to exist. a weakening or reversal of the general economic recovery in the united states and other countries and regions in which we do business, or the continuation or worsening of the economic downturn in other countries and regions, may adversely impact our net sales, the collection of accounts receivable, funding for working capital needs, expected cash flow generation from current and acquired businesses, and our investments, which may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we finance a portion of our sales through trade credit. credit markets remain tight, and some customers who require financing for their businesses have not been able to obtain necessary financing. a continuation or worsening of these conditions could limit our ability to collect our accounts receivable, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we generally fund a portion of our seasonal working capital needs and obtain funding for other general corporate purposes through short-term borrowings backed by our revolving credit facility and other financing facilities. if any of the 5 banks in these credit and financing facilities are unable to perform on their commitments, which could adversely affect our ability to fund seasonal working capital needs and obtain funding for other general corporate purposes, our cash flow, liquidity or financial condition could be adversely impacted. although we currently have available credit facilities to fund our current operating needs, we cannot be certain that we will be able to replace our existing credit facilities or refinance our existing or future debt when necessary. our cost of borrowing and ability to access the capital markets are affected not only by market conditions, but also by our debt and credit ratings assigned by the major credit rating agencies. downgrades in these ratings will increase our cost of borrowing and could have an adverse effect on our access to the capital markets, including our access to the commercial paper market. an inability to access the capital markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we have goodwill and intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. we periodically evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of our goodwill and intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that such value may not be recoverable. impairment assessment involves judgment as to assumptions regarding future sales and cash flows and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions. future events and changing market conditions may impact our assumptions and may result in changes in our estimates of future sales and cash flows that may result in us incurring substantial impairment charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we hold investments in equity and debt securities in some of our defined benefit pension plans. a decrease in the value of plan assets resulting from a general financial downturn may cause a negative pension plan investment performance, which may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. protracted duration of economic downturns in cyclical segments of the economy may depress the demand for some of our products and adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition. portions of our business involve the sale of paint, coatings and related products to segments of the economy that are cyclical in nature, particularly segments relating to construction, housing and manufacturing. our sales to these segments are affected by the levels of discretionary consumer and business spending in these segments. during economic downturns in these segments, the levels of consumer and business discretionary spending may decrease, and the recovery of these segments may lag behind the recovery of the overall economy. this decrease in spending will likely reduce the demand for some of our products and may adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition. during the recent recession, the u.s. homebuilding industry experienced a significant and sustained decrease in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale. during this same time period, the u.s. real estate industry also experienced a significant decrease in existing home turnover. the commercial and industrial building and maintenance sectors also experienced a significant decline. the downturn in each of these segments contributed to an unprecedented decline in the demand for some of our products. the recovery in new home starts, existing home sales and new commercial construction has been sluggish and erratic in many markets and remain below their pre-recession highs. challenging market conditions are expected to continue for the foreseeable future and may worsen. a worsening in these segments will reduce the demand for some of our products and may adversely impact sales, earnings and cash flow. increases in the cost of raw materials and energy may adversely affect our earnings or cash flow. we purchase raw materials (including titanium dioxide and proplylene) and energy for use in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products. factors such as adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes, and other disasters can disrupt raw material and fuel supplies and increase our costs. although raw materials and energy supplies (including oil and natural gas) are generally available from various sources in sufficient quantities, unexpected shortages and increases in the cost of raw materials and energy, or any deterioration in our relationships with or the financial viability of our suppliers, may have an adverse effect on our earnings or cash flow in the event we are unable to offset higher costs in a timely manner by sufficiently decreasing our operating costs or raising the prices of our products. while we have experienced some easing of the prices of certain raw materials recently, raw material pricing has in the past and likely will in the future experience periods of volatility. although we have an extensive customer base, the loss of any of our largest customers could adversely affect our sales, earnings or cash flow. we have a large and varied customer base due to our extensive distribution network. during 2014 , no individual customer accounted for sales totaling more than ten percent of our sales. however, we have some customers that, individually, purchase a large amount of products from us. although our broad distribution channels help to minimize the impact of the loss of any one customer, the loss of any of these large customers could have an adverse effect on our sales, earnings or cash flow. adverse weather conditions may temporarily reduce the demand for some of our products and could have a negative effect on our sales, earnings or cash flow. 6 our business is seasonal in nature, with the second and third quarters typically generating a higher proportion of sales and earnings than other quarters. from time to time, adverse weather conditions in certain parts of the united states have had an adverse effect on our sales of paint, coatings and related products. for example, unusually cold and rainy weather, especially during the exterior painting season, could have an adverse effect on sales of our exterior paint products. an adverse effect on sales may cause a reduction in our earnings or cash flow. increased competition may reduce our sales, earnings or cash flow performance. we face substantial competition from many international, national, regional and local competitors of various sizes in the manufacture, distribution and sale of our paint, coatings and related products. some of our competitors are larger than us and have greater financial resources to compete. other competitors are smaller and may be able to offer more specialized products. technology, product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, distribution, service and price are the key competitive factors for our business. competition in any of these areas may reduce our sales and adversely affect our earnings or cash flow by resulting in decreased sales volumes, reduced prices and increased costs of manufacturing, distributing and selling our products. to service our debt, we will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. we also depend on the business of our subsidiaries to satisfy our cash needs. if we cannot generate the required cash, we may not be able to make the necessary payments required under our indebtedness. at december 31, 2014, we had total debt of approximately $1.8 billion . we have the ability under our existing credit facilities to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to make payments on our debt, fund our other liquidity needs, and make planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. our historical financial results have been, and we anticipate that our future financial results will be, subject to fluctuations. our ability to generate cash, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from our operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to make payments of our debt, fund other liquidity needs and make planned capital expenditures. additionally, any failure to comply with covenants in the instruments governing our debt could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, would have a material adverse effect on us. a significant portion of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. as a result, our ability to generate sufficient cash flow for our needs is dependent to some extent on the earnings of our subsidiaries and the payment of those earnings to us in the form of dividends, loans or advances and through repayment of loans or advances from us. our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities. our subsidiaries have no obligation to pay any amounts due on our debt or to provide us with funds to meet our cash flow needs, whether in the form of dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. in addition, any payment of dividends, loans or advances by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions. payments to us by our subsidiaries will also be contingent upon our subsidiaries' earnings and business considerations. our right to receive any assets of any of our subsidiaries upon their liquidation or reorganization will be effectively subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary's creditors, including trade creditors. in addition, even if we are a creditor of any of our subsidiaries, our rights as a creditor would be subordinate to any security interest in the assets of our subsidiaries and any indebtedness of our subsidiaries senior to that held by us. finally, changes in the laws of foreign jurisdictions in which we operate may adversely affect the ability of some of our foreign subsidiaries to repatriate funds to us. our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition may be negatively impacted if we do not successfully integrate past and future acquisitions into our existing operations and if the performance of the businesses we acquire do not meet our expectations. we have historically made strategic acquisitions of businesses in the paint and coatings industry and will likely acquire additional businesses in the future as part of our long-term growth strategy. in 2013, we acquired the comex business in the united states and canada. this acquisition involves challenges and risks. in the event that we do not continue to successfully integrate the comex acquisition into our existing operations so as to realize the expected return on our investment, our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition could be adversely affected. risks and uncertainties associated with our expansion into and our operations in asia, europe, south america and other foreign markets could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. net external sales of our consolidated foreign subsidiaries totaled approximately 19.8%, 20.9% and 21.5% of our total consolidated net sales in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. sales outside of the united states make up a significant part of our current business and future strategic plans. our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition could be adversely affected by a variety of international factors, including general economic conditions, inflation rates, recessions, foreign currency exchange rates, foreign currency exchange controls, interest rates, foreign investment and repatriation restrictions, legal and regulatory constraints, civil unrest, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and other 7 external economic and political factors. our inability to successfully manage the risks and uncertainties relating to these factors could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. in many foreign countries, it is acceptable to engage in certain business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in because of regulations that are applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and the uk bribery act. although we have internal control policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these regulations, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will prevent a violation of these regulations. any violation could cause an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. because of our international operations, we are exposed to risk associated with interest rates and value changes in foreign currencies, which may adversely affect our business. historically, our reported net sales, earnings, cash flow and financial condition have been subjected to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. our primary exchange rate exposure is with the euro, the british pound, the argentine peso, the brazilian real, the chilean peso, the canadian dollar and the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar. while we actively manage the exposure of our foreign currency risk as part of our overall financial risk management policy, we believe we may experience losses from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, and such losses could adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we are subject to a wide variety of complex domestic and foreign laws and regulations, for which compliance could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. we are subject to a wide variety of complex domestic and foreign laws and regulations, and legal compliance risks, including securities laws, tax laws, employment and pension-related laws, competition laws, u.s. and foreign export and trading laws, and laws governing improper business practices. we are affected by new laws and regulations, and changes to existing laws and regulations, including interpretations by courts and regulators. from time to time, our company, our operations and the industries in which we operate are being reviewed or investigated by regulators, which could lead to enforcement actions or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages. although we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs to mitigate these risks, the global and diverse nature of our operations means that compliance risks will continue to exist. investigations, examinations and other proceedings, the nature and outcome of which cannot be predicted, will likely arise from time to time. these investigations, examinations and other proceedings could subject us to significant liability and require us to take significant accruals or pay significant settlements, fines and penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. we are subject to tax laws and regulations in the united states and multiple foreign jurisdictions. we are affected by changes in tax laws and regulations, as well as changes in related interpretations and other tax guidance. in the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to examinations and investigations by various tax authorities. in addition to existing examinations and investigations, there could be additional examinations and investigations in the future, and existing examinations and investigations could be expanded. for non-income tax risks, we estimate material loss contingencies and accrue for such loss contingencies as required by u.s. generally accepted accounting principles based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency. in the event the loss contingency is ultimately determined to be significantly higher than currently accrued, the recording of the additional liability may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such additional liability is accrued. in those cases where no accrual is recorded because it is not probable that a liability has been incurred and cannot be reasonably estimated, any potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued or paid. for income tax risks, we recognize tax benefits based on our assessment that a tax benefit has a greater than 50% likelihood of being sustained upon ultimate settlement with the applicable taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant facts. for those income tax positions where we assess that there is not a greater than 50% likelihood that such tax benefits will be sustained, we do not recognize a tax benefit in our financial statements. subsequent events may cause us to change our assessment of the likelihood of sustaining a previously-recognized benefit which could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial position for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued or paid. we discuss risks and uncertainties with regard to taxes in more detail in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 68 and 69 of our 2014 annual report. 8 unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer, employee, supplier or company information, whether through a breach of our computer systems, including cyber attacks or otherwise, could severely harm our business. as part of our business, we collect, process, and retain sensitive and confidential personal information about our customers, employees and suppliers. despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of the retailers, dealers, licensees and other third party distributors with which we do business, may be vulnerable to security breaches, cyber attacks, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer, employee, supplier or company information, whether by us or by the retailers, dealers, licensees and other third party distributors with which we do business, could result in losses, severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and privacy is increasingly rigorous, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business, and compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs. we are required to comply with numerous complex and increasingly stringent domestic and foreign health, safety and environmental laws and regulations, the cost of which is likely to increase and may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. our operations are subject to various domestic and foreign health, safety and environmental laws and regulations. these laws and regulations not only govern our current operations and products, but also impose potential liability on us for our past operations. we expect health, safety and environmental laws and regulations to impose increasingly stringent requirements upon our industry and us in the future. our costs to comply with these laws and regulations may increase as these requirements become more stringent in the future, and these increased costs may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. we are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of our currently and formerly owned sites, as well as a number of third-party sites, for which our ultimate liability may exceed the current amount we have accrued. we are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of our currently and formerly owned sites and a number of third-party sites. we accrue for estimated costs of investigation and remediation activities at these sites for which commitments or clean-up plans have been developed and when such costs can be reasonably estimated based on industry standards and professional judgment. these estimated costs are based on currently available facts regarding each site. we continuously assess our potential liability for investigation and remediation activities and adjust our environmental-related accruals as information becomes available upon which more accurate costs can be reasonably estimated. due to the uncertainties surrounding environmental investigation and remediation activities, our liability may result in costs that are significantly higher than currently accrued and may have an adverse effect on our earnings. we discuss these risks and uncertainties in more detail on page 23 of our 2014 annual report under the caption environmental matters, page 27 of our 2014 annual report under the caption environmental-related liabilities and in note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 58 through 60 of our 2014 annual report. 9 the nature, cost, quantity and outcome of pending and future litigation, such as litigation arising from the historical manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paint, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition. in the course of our business, we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits, including, but not limited to, litigation relating to product liability and warranty, personal injury, environmental, intellectual property, commercial, contractual and antitrust claims that are inherently subject to many uncertainties regarding the possibility of a loss to us. these uncertainties will ultimately be resolved when one or more future events occur or fail to occur confirming the incurrence of a liability or the reduction of a liability. in accordance with the contingencies topic of the asc, we accrue for these contingencies by a charge to income when it is both probable that one or more future events will occur confirming the fact of a loss and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. in the event that a loss contingency is ultimately determined to be significantly higher than currently accrued, the recording of the additional liability may result in a material impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such additional liability is accrued. in those cases where no accrual is recorded because it is not probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of any such loss cannot be reasonably estimated, any potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us may result in a material impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued. in those cases where no accrual is recorded or exposure to loss exists in excess of the amount accrued, the contingencies topic of the asc requires disclosure of the contingency when there is a reasonable possibility that a loss or additional loss may have been incurred. our past operations included the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paints. along with other companies, we are and have been a defendant in a number of legal proceedings, including individual personal injury actions, purported class actions and actions brought by various counties, cities, school districts and other government-related entities, arising from the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paints. the plaintiffs' claims have been based upon various legal theories, including negligence, strict liability, breach of warranty, negligent misrepresentations and omissions, fraudulent misrepresentations and omissions, concert of action, civil conspiracy, violations of unfair trade practice and consumer protection laws, enterprise liability, market share liability, public nuisance, unjust enrichment and other theories. the plaintiffs seek various damages and relief, including personal injury and property damage, costs relating to the detection and abatement of lead-based paint from buildings, costs associated with a public education campaign, medical monitoring costs and others. we have also been a defendant in legal proceedings arising from the manufacture and sale of non-lead-based paints that seek recovery based upon various legal theories, including the failure to adequately warn of potential exposure to lead during surface preparation when using non-lead-based paint on surfaces previously painted with lead-based paint. we believe that the litigation brought to date is without merit or subject to meritorious defenses and are vigorously defending such litigation. we have not settled any material lead pigment or lead-based paint litigation. we expect that additional lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation may be filed against us in the future asserting similar or different legal theories and seeking similar or different types of damages and relief. notwithstanding our views on the merits, litigation is inherently subject to many uncertainties, and we ultimately may not prevail. adverse court rulings, such as the court's decision in the santa clara county, california proceeding, the jury verdict against us and other defendants in the state of rhode island action and the wisconsin state supreme court's determination that wisconsin's risk contribution theory may apply in the lead pigment litigation, or determinations of liability, among other factors, could affect the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation against us and encourage an increase in the number and nature of future claims and proceedings. in addition, from time to time, various legislation and administrative regulations have been enacted, promulgated or proposed to impose obligations on present and former manufacturers of lead pigments and lead-based paints respecting asserted health concerns associated with such products or to overturn the effect of court decisions in which we and other manufacturers have been successful. due to the uncertainties involved, management is unable to predict the outcome of the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, the number or nature of possible future claims and proceedings, or the effect that any legislation and/or administrative regulations may have on the litigation or against us. in addition, management cannot reasonably determine the scope or amount of the potential costs and liabilities related to such litigation, or resulting from any such legislation and regulations. we have not accrued any amounts for such litigation. with respect to such litigation, including the public nuisance litigation, the company does not believe that it is probable that a loss has occurred, and it is not possible to estimate the range of potential losses as there is no prior history of a loss of this nature and there is no substantive information upon which an estimate could be based. in addition, any potential liability that may result from any changes to legislation and regulations cannot reasonably be estimated. in the event any significant liability is determined to be attributable to us relating to such litigation, the recording of the liability may result in a material impact on net income for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued. additionally, due to the uncertainties associated with the amount of any such liability and/or the nature of any other remedy which may be imposed in such litigation, any potential liability determined to be attributable to us arising out of such litigation may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial 10 condition. an estimate of the potential impact on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition cannot be made due to the aforementioned uncertainties. a trial commenced in the santa clara county, california proceeding on july 15, 2013 and ended on august 22, 2013. the court entered final judgment on january 27, 2014, finding in favor of the plaintiffs and against the company and two other defendants, and holding the company jointly and severally liable with the other two defendants to pay $1.15 billion into a fund to abate the public nuisance. the company has filed a notice of appeal. however, if the appeal process is unsuccessful at reversing the decision or otherwise reducing the amount of the judgment, we and the other defendants will be subject to significant liabilities, costs and expenses to abate the public nuisance in, on and around residences in the plaintiffs' jurisdictions, which could encourage an increase in future public nuisance claims and proceedings. any adverse court rulings or any determinations of liability against us may result in a material impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we discuss the risks and uncertainties related to litigation, including the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, in more detail on page 23 of our 2014 annual report under the caption litigation and other contingent liabilities, and pages 29 and 30 of our 2014 annual report under the caption litigation of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in note 9 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 60 through 63 of our 2014 annual report. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 17 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk associated with interest rates, foreign currency and commodity fluctuations. we occasionally utilize derivative instruments as part of our overall financial risk management policy, but do not use derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes. the company entered into foreign currency option and forward currency exchange contracts during 2014 to hedge against value changes in foreign currency. there were no material contracts outstanding at december 31, 2014 . foreign currency option and forward contracts are described in note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on page 67 of our 2014 annual report. we believe we may experience continuing losses from foreign currency fluctuations. however, we do not expect currency translation, transaction or hedging contract losses to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.risk factors 5 risk factors the risks described below and in other documents that we file from time to time with the securities and exchange commission could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. adverse changes in general business and economic conditions in the united states and worldwide may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. our business is sensitive to global and regional business and economic conditions. adverse changes in such conditions in the united states and worldwide may reduce the demand for some of our products and impair the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us, each of which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. higher inflation rates, interest rates, tax rates and unemployment rates, higher labor and healthcare costs, recessions, changing governmental policies, laws and regulations, and other economic factors could also adversely affect demand for some of our products and our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition and that of our customers, vendors, and suppliers. a weakening or reversal of the general economic recovery in the united states and other countries and regions in which we do business, or the continuation or worsening of the economic downturn in other countries and regions, may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. global economic uncertainty continues to exist. a weakening or reversal of the general economic recovery in the united states and other countries and regions in which we do business, or the continuation or worsening of the economic downturn in other countries and regions, may adversely impact our net sales, the collection of accounts receivable, funding for working capital needs, expected cash flow generation from current and acquired businesses, and our investments, which may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we finance a portion of our sales through trade credit. credit markets remain tight, and some customers who require financing for their businesses have not been able to obtain necessary financing. a continuation or worsening of these conditions could limit our ability to collect our accounts receivable, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. 5 we generally fund a portion of our seasonal working capital needs and obtain funding for other general corporate purposes through short-term borrowings backed by our revolving credit facility and other financing facilities. if any of the banks in these credit and financing facilities are unable to perform on their commitments, which could adversely affect our ability to fund seasonal working capital needs and obtain funding for other general corporate purposes, our cash flow, liquidity or financial condition could be adversely impacted. although we currently have available credit facilities to fund our current operating needs, we cannot be certain that we will be able to replace our existing credit facilities or refinance our existing or future debt when necessary. our cost of borrowing and ability to access the capital markets are affected not only by market conditions, but also by our debt and credit ratings assigned by the major credit rating agencies. downgrades in these ratings will increase our cost of borrowing and could have an adverse effect on our access to the capital markets, including our access to the commercial paper market. an inability to access the capital markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we have goodwill and intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. we periodically evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of our goodwill and intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that such value may not be recoverable. impairment assessment involves judgment as to assumptions regarding future sales and cash flows and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions. future events and changing market conditions may impact our assumptions and may result in changes in our estimates of future sales and cash flows that may result in us incurring substantial impairment charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we hold investments in equity and debt securities in some of our defined benefit pension plans. a decrease in the value of plan assets resulting from a general financial downturn may cause a negative pension plan investment performance, which may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. protracted duration of economic downturns in cyclical segments of the economy may depress the demand for some of our products and adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition. portions of our business involve the sale of paint, coatings and related products to segments of the economy that are cyclical in nature, particularly segments relating to construction, housing, manufacturing and oil production, refining, storage and transportation. our sales to these segments are affected by the levels of discretionary consumer and business spending in these segments. during economic downturns in these segments, the levels of consumer and business discretionary spending may decrease, and the recovery of these segments may lag behind the recovery of the overall economy. this decrease in spending will likely reduce the demand for some of our products and may adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition. during the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009, the u.s. homebuilding industry experienced a significant and sustained decrease in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale. during this same time period, the u.s. real estate industry also experienced a significant decrease in existing home turnover. the commercial and industrial building and maintenance sectors also experienced a significant decline. the downturn in each of these segments contributed to an unprecedented decline in the demand for some of our products. the recovery in new home starts, existing home sales and new commercial construction has been sluggish and erratic in many markets and remain below their pre-recession highs. challenging market conditions are expected to continue for the foreseeable future and may worsen. a worsening in these segments will reduce the demand for some of our products and may adversely impact sales, earnings and cash flow. increases in the cost of raw materials and energy may adversely affect our earnings or cash flow. we purchase raw materials (including titanium dioxide and propylene) and energy for use in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products. factors such as adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes, and other disasters can disrupt raw material and fuel supplies and increase our costs. although raw materials and energy supplies (including oil and natural gas) are generally available from various sources in sufficient quantities, unexpected shortages and increases in the cost of raw materials and energy, or any deterioration in our relationships with or the financial viability of our suppliers, may have an adverse effect on our earnings or cash flow in the event we are unable to offset higher costs in a timely manner by sufficiently decreasing our operating costs or raising the prices of our products. while we have experienced some easing of the prices of certain raw materials recently, raw material pricing has in the past experienced, and likely will in the future experience, periods of volatility. although we have an extensive customer base, the loss of any of our largest customers could adversely affect our sales, earnings or cash flow. we have a large and varied customer base due to our extensive distribution network. during 2015 , no individual customer accounted for sales totaling more than ten percent of our sales. however, we have some customers that, individually, purchase a 6 large amount of products from us. although our broad distribution channels help to minimize the impact of the loss of any one customer, the loss of any of these large customers could have an adverse effect on our sales, earnings or cash flow. adverse weather conditions may temporarily reduce the demand for some of our products and could have a negative effect on our sales, earnings or cash flow. our business is seasonal in nature, with the second and third quarters typically generating a higher proportion of sales and earnings than other quarters. from time to time, adverse weather conditions in certain parts of the united states have had an adverse effect on our sales of paint, coatings and related products. for example, unusually cold and rainy weather, such as that which occurred in certain parts of the united states during the exterior painting season in 2015, could have an adverse effect on sales of our exterior paint products. an adverse effect on sales may cause a reduction in our earnings or cash flow. increased competition may reduce our sales, earnings or cash flow performance. we face substantial competition from many international, national, regional and local competitors of various sizes in the manufacture, distribution and sale of our paint, coatings and related products. some of our competitors are larger than us and have greater financial resources to compete. other competitors are smaller and may be able to offer more specialized products. technology, product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, distribution, service and price are the key competitive factors for our business. competition in any of these areas may reduce our sales and adversely affect our earnings or cash flow by resulting in decreased sales volumes, reduced prices and increased costs of manufacturing, distributing and selling our products. inability to protect or enforce our material trademarks and other intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect on our business. we have numerous patents, trade secrets, trademarks, trade names and know-how that are valuable to our business. despite our efforts to protect such intellectual property and other proprietary information from unauthorized use or disclosure, third parties may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our trademarks or such other intellectual property and information without our authorization. although we rely on the patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws of the united states and other countries to protect our intellectual property rights, the laws of some countries may not protect such rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, the failure of foreign countries to have laws to protect our intellectual property rights, or an inability to effectively enforce such rights in foreign countries could have an adverse effect on our business. to service our debt, we will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. we also depend on the business of our subsidiaries to satisfy our cash needs. if we cannot generate the required cash, we may not be able to make the necessary payments required under our indebtedness. at december 31, 2015 , we had total debt of approximately $2.0 billion . we have the ability under our existing credit facilities to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to make payments on our debt, fund our other liquidity needs, and make planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. our historical financial results have been, and we anticipate that our future financial results will be, subject to fluctuations. our ability to generate cash, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot guarantee that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from our operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to make payments of our debt, fund other liquidity needs and make planned capital expenditures. additionally, any failure to comply with covenants in the instruments governing our debt could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, would have a material adverse effect on us. a significant portion of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. as a result, our ability to generate sufficient cash flow for our needs is dependent to some extent on the earnings of our subsidiaries and the payment of those earnings to us in the form of dividends, loans or advances and through repayment of loans or advances from us. our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities. our subsidiaries have no obligation to pay any amounts due on our debt or to provide us with funds to meet our cash flow needs, whether in the form of dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. in addition, any payment of dividends, loans or advances by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions. payments to us by our subsidiaries will also be contingent upon our subsidiaries' earnings and business considerations. our right to receive any assets of any of our subsidiaries upon their liquidation or reorganization will be effectively subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary's creditors, including trade creditors. in addition, even if we are a creditor of any of our subsidiaries, our rights as a creditor would be subordinate to any security interest in the assets of our subsidiaries and any indebtedness of our subsidiaries senior to that held by us. finally, changes in the laws of foreign jurisdictions in which we operate may adversely affect the ability of some of our foreign subsidiaries to repatriate funds to us. 7 our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition may be negatively impacted if we do not successfully integrate future acquisitions into our existing operations and if the performance of the businesses we acquire do not meet our expectations. we have historically made strategic acquisitions of businesses in the paint and coatings industry and will likely acquire additional businesses in the future as part of our long-term growth strategy. the success of future acquisitions depends in large part on our ability to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired companies and manage challenges that may arise as a result of the acquisitions, particularly when the acquired businesses operate in new or foreign markets. in the event that we do not successfully integrate such future acquisitions into our existing operations so as to realize the expected return on our investment, our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition could be adversely affected. risks and uncertainties associated with our expansion into and our operations in asia, europe, south america and other foreign markets could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. net external sales of our consolidated foreign subsidiaries totaled approximately 15.8% , 19.8% and 20.9% of our total consolidated net sales in 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. sales outside of the united states make up a significant part of our current business and future strategic plans. our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition could be adversely affected by a variety of international factors, including general economic conditions, inflation rates, recessions, foreign currency exchange rates, foreign currency exchange controls, interest rates, foreign investment and repatriation restrictions, legal and regulatory constraints, civil unrest, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and other external economic and political factors. our inability to successfully manage the risks and uncertainties relating to these factors could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. in many foreign countries, it is acceptable to engage in certain business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in because of regulations that are applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and the uk bribery act. although we have internal control policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these regulations, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will prevent a violation of these regulations. any violation could cause an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. because of our international operations, we are exposed to risk associated with interest rates and value changes in foreign currencies, which may adversely affect our business. historically, our reported net sales, earnings, cash flow and financial condition have been subjected to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. our primary exchange rate exposure is with the argentine peso, the brazilian real, the british pound, the canadian dollar, the chilean peso, the euro and the mexican peso, each against the u.s. dollar. while we actively manage the exposure of our foreign currency risk as part of our overall financial risk management policy, we believe we may experience losses from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, and such losses could adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we are subject to a wide variety of complex domestic and foreign laws, rules and regulations, for which compliance could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. we are subject to a wide variety of complex domestic and foreign laws, rules and regulations, and legal compliance risks, including securities laws, tax laws, employment and pension-related laws, competition laws, u.s. and foreign export and trading laws, data privacy and security laws, and laws governing improper business practices. we are affected by new laws and regulations, and changes to existing laws and regulations, including interpretations by courts and regulators. from time to time, our company, our operations and the industries in which we operate are being reviewed or investigated by regulators, which could lead to enforcement actions or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages. although we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs to mitigate these risks, the global and diverse nature of our operations means that compliance risks will continue to exist. investigations, examinations and other proceedings, the nature and outcome of which cannot be predicted, will likely arise from time to time. these investigations, examinations and other proceedings could subject us to significant liability and require us to take significant accruals or pay significant settlements, fines and penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. we are subject to tax laws and regulations in the united states and multiple foreign jurisdictions. we are affected by changes in tax laws and regulations, as well as changes in related interpretations and other tax guidance. in the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to examinations and investigations by various tax authorities. in addition to existing examinations and investigations, there could be additional examinations and investigations in the future, and existing examinations and investigations could be expanded. 8 for non-income tax risks, we estimate material loss contingencies and accrue for such loss contingencies as required by u.s. generally accepted accounting principles based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency. in the event the loss contingency is ultimately determined to be significantly higher than currently accrued, the recording of the additional liability may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such additional liability is accrued. in those cases where no accrual is recorded because it is not probable that a liability has been incurred and cannot be reasonably estimated, any potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued or paid. for income tax risks, we recognize tax benefits based on our assessment that a tax benefit has a greater than 50% likelihood of being sustained upon ultimate settlement with the applicable taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant facts. for those income tax positions where we assess that there is not a greater than 50% likelihood that such tax benefits will be sustained, we do not recognize a tax benefit in our financial statements. subsequent events may cause us to change our assessment of the likelihood of sustaining a previously-recognized benefit which could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial position for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued or paid. we discuss risks and uncertainties with regard to taxes in more detail in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 69 and 70 of our 2015 annual report. unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer, employee, supplier or company information, whether through a breach of our computer systems, including cyber attacks, or otherwise, could severely harm our business. as part of our business, we collect, process, and retain sensitive and confidential personal information about our customers, employees and suppliers. despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of the retailers, dealers, licensees and other third party suppliers and vendors with which we do business, may be vulnerable to security breaches, cyber attacks, acts of vandalism or misconduct, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer, employee, supplier or company information, whether by us or by the retailers, dealers, licensees and other third party suppliers and vendors with which we do business, could result in losses, severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. as cyber security threats evolve in sophistication and become more prevalent in numerous industries worldwide, we continue to increase our sensitivity and attention to these threats and seek additional investments and resources to address these threats and enhance the security of our facilities and systems. the regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and privacy is increasingly rigorous and complex, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business, and compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs. we are required to comply with numerous complex and increasingly stringent domestic and foreign health, safety and environmental laws and regulations, the cost of which is likely to increase and may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. our operations are subject to various domestic and foreign health, safety and environmental laws and regulations. these laws and regulations not only govern our current operations and products, but also impose potential liability on us for our past operations. we expect health, safety and environmental laws and regulations to impose increasingly stringent requirements upon our industry and us in the future. our costs to comply with these laws and regulations may increase as these requirements become more stringent in the future, and these increased costs may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. we are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of our currently and formerly owned sites, as well as a number of third-party sites, for which our ultimate liability may exceed the current amount we have accrued. we are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of our currently and formerly owned sites and a number of third-party sites. we accrue for estimated costs of investigation and remediation activities at these sites for which commitments or clean-up plans have been developed and when such costs can be reasonably estimated based on industry standards and professional judgment. these estimated costs are based on currently available facts regarding each site. we continuously assess our potential liability for investigation and remediation activities and adjust our environmental-related accruals as information becomes available upon which more accurate costs can be reasonably estimated. due to the uncertainties surrounding environmental investigation and remediation activities, our liability may result in costs that are significantly higher than currently accrued and may have an adverse effect on our earnings. we discuss these risks and 9 uncertainties in more detail on page 25 of our 2015 annual report under the caption environmental matters, page 29 of our 2015 annual report under the caption environmental-related liabilities and in note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 60 through 62 of our 2015 annual report. the nature, cost, quantity and outcome of pending and future litigation, such as litigation arising from the historical manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paint, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition. in the course of our business, we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits, including, but not limited to, litigation relating to product liability and warranty, personal injury, environmental, intellectual property, commercial, contractual and antitrust claims that are inherently subject to many uncertainties regarding the possibility of a loss to us. these uncertainties will ultimately be resolved when one or more future events occur or fail to occur confirming the incurrence of a liability or the reduction of a liability. in accordance with the contingencies topic of the asc, we accrue for these contingencies by a charge to income when it is both probable that one or more future events will occur confirming the fact of a loss and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. in the event that a loss contingency is ultimately determined to be significantly higher than currently accrued, the recording of the additional liability may result in a material impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such additional liability is accrued. in those cases where no accrual is recorded because it is not probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of any such loss cannot be reasonably estimated, any potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us may result in a material impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued. in those cases where no accrual is recorded or exposure to loss exists in excess of the amount accrued, the contingencies topic of the asc requires disclosure of the contingency when there is a reasonable possibility that a loss or additional loss may have been incurred. our past operations included the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paints. along with other companies, we are and have been a defendant in a number of legal proceedings, including individual personal injury actions, purported class actions and actions brought by various counties, cities, school districts and other government-related entities, arising from the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paints. the plaintiffs' claims have been based upon various legal theories, including negligence, strict liability, breach of warranty, negligent misrepresentations and omissions, fraudulent misrepresentations and omissions, concert of action, civil conspiracy, violations of unfair trade practice and consumer protection laws, enterprise liability, market share liability, public nuisance, unjust enrichment and other theories. the plaintiffs seek various damages and relief, including personal injury and property damage, costs relating to the detection and abatement of lead-based paint from buildings, costs associated with a public education campaign, medical monitoring costs and others. we have also been a defendant in legal proceedings arising from the manufacture and sale of non-lead-based paints that seek recovery based upon various legal theories, including the failure to adequately warn of potential exposure to lead during surface preparation when using non-lead-based paint on surfaces previously painted with lead-based paint. we believe that the litigation brought to date is without merit or subject to meritorious defenses and are vigorously defending such litigation. we have not settled any material lead pigment or lead-based paint litigation. we expect that additional lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation may be filed against us in the future asserting similar or different legal theories and seeking similar or different types of damages and relief. notwithstanding our views on the merits, litigation is inherently subject to many uncertainties, and we ultimately may not prevail. adverse court rulings, such as the court's decision in the santa clara county, california proceeding, the jury verdict against us and other defendants in the state of rhode island action and the wisconsin state supreme court's determination that wisconsin's risk contribution theory may apply in the lead pigment litigation, or determinations of liability, among other factors, could affect the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation against us and encourage an increase in the number and nature of future claims and proceedings. in addition, from time to time, various legislation and administrative regulations have been enacted, promulgated or proposed to impose obligations on present and former manufacturers of lead pigments and lead-based paints respecting asserted health concerns associated with such products or to overturn the effect of court decisions in which we and other manufacturers have been successful. due to the uncertainties involved, management is unable to predict the outcome of the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, the number or nature of possible future claims and proceedings, or the effect that any legislation and/or administrative regulations may have on the litigation or against us. in addition, management cannot reasonably determine the scope or amount of the potential costs and liabilities related to such litigation, or resulting from any such legislation and regulations. we have not accrued any amounts for such litigation. with respect to such litigation, including the public nuisance litigation, the company does not believe that it is probable that a loss has occurred, and it is not possible to estimate the range of potential losses as there is no prior history of a loss of this nature and there is no substantive information upon which an estimate could be based. in addition, any potential liability that may result from any changes to legislation and regulations cannot reasonably be estimated. in the event any significant liability is determined to be attributable to us relating to such litigation, the recording of the liability may result in a material impact on net income for the annual or interim period during 10 which such liability is accrued. additionally, due to the uncertainties associated with the amount of any such liability and/or the nature of any other remedy which may be imposed in such litigation, any potential liability determined to be attributable to us arising out of such litigation may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. an estimate of the potential impact on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition cannot be made due to the aforementioned uncertainties. a trial commenced in the santa clara county, california proceeding on july 15, 2013 and ended on august 22, 2013. the court entered final judgment on january 27, 2014, finding in favor of the plaintiffs and against the company and two other defendants, and holding the company jointly and severally liable with the other two defendants to pay $1.15 billion into a fund to abate the public nuisance. the company has filed a notice of appeal. however, if the appeal process is unsuccessful at reversing the decision or otherwise reducing the amount of the judgment, we and the other defendants will be subject to significant liabilities, costs and expenses to abate the public nuisance in, on and around residences in the plaintiffs' jurisdictions, which could encourage an increase in future public nuisance claims and proceedings. any adverse court rulings or any determinations of liability against us may result in a material impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we discuss the risks and uncertainties related to litigation, including the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, in more detail on page 25 of our 2015 annual report under the caption litigation and other contingent liabilities and in note 9 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 62 through 65 of our 2015 annual report. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 17 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk associated with interest rates, foreign currency and commodity fluctuations. we occasionally utilize derivative instruments as part of our overall financial risk management policy, but do not use derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes. the company entered into foreign currency option and forward currency exchange contracts during 2015 to hedge against value changes in foreign currency. there were no material contracts outstanding at december 31, 2015 . foreign currency option and forward contracts are described in note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on page 69 of our 2015 annual report. we believe we may experience continuing losses from foreign currency fluctuations. however, we do not expect currency translation, transaction or hedging contract losses to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.risk factors 5 risk factors the risks described below and in other documents that we file from time to time with the securities and exchange commission could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. adverse changes in general business and economic conditions in the united states and worldwide may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. our business is sensitive to global and regional business and economic conditions. adverse changes in such conditions in the united states and worldwide may reduce the demand for some of our products and impair the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us, each of which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. higher inflation rates, interest rates, tax rates and unemployment rates, higher labor and healthcare costs, recessions, changing governmental policies, laws and regulations, and other economic factors could also adversely affect demand for some of our products and our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition and that of our customers, vendors, and suppliers. a weakening or reversal of the general economic recovery in the united states and other countries and regions in which we do business, or the continuation or worsening of the economic downturn in other countries and regions, may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. global economic uncertainty continues to exist. a weakening or reversal of the general economic recovery in the united states and other countries and regions in which we do business, or the continuation or worsening of the economic downturn in other countries and regions, may adversely impact our net sales, the collection of accounts receivable, funding for working capital needs, expected cash flow generation from current and acquired businesses, and our investments, which may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. 5 we finance a portion of our sales through trade credit. credit markets remain tight, and some customers who require financing for their businesses have not been able to obtain necessary financing. a continuation or worsening of these conditions could limit our ability to collect our accounts receivable, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we generally fund a portion of our seasonal working capital needs and obtain funding for other general corporate purposes through short-term borrowings backed by our revolving credit facility and other financing facilities. if any of the banks in these credit and financing facilities are unable to perform on their commitments, which could adversely affect our ability to fund seasonal working capital needs and obtain funding for other general corporate purposes, our cash flow, liquidity or financial condition could be adversely impacted. although we currently have available credit facilities to fund our current operating needs, we cannot be certain that we will be able to replace our existing credit facilities or refinance our existing or future debt when necessary. our cost of borrowing and ability to access the capital markets are affected not only by market conditions, but also by our debt and credit ratings assigned by the major credit rating agencies. downgrades in these ratings will increase our cost of borrowing and could have an adverse effect on our access to the capital markets, including our access to the commercial paper market. an inability to access the capital markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we have goodwill and intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. we periodically evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of our goodwill and intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that such value may not be recoverable. impairment assessment involves judgment as to assumptions regarding future sales and cash flows and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions. future events and changing market conditions may impact our assumptions and may result in changes in our estimates of future sales and cash flows that may result in us incurring substantial impairment charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we hold investments in equity and debt securities in some of our defined benefit pension plans. a decrease in the value of plan assets resulting from a general financial downturn may cause a negative pension plan investment performance, which may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. protracted duration of economic downturns in cyclical segments of the economy may depress the demand for some of our products and adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition. portions of our business involve the sale of paint, coatings and related products to segments of the economy that are cyclical in nature, particularly segments relating to construction, housing, manufacturing and oil production, refining, storage and transportation. our sales to these segments are affected by the levels of discretionary consumer and business spending in these segments. during economic downturns in these segments, the levels of consumer and business discretionary spending may decrease, and the recovery of these segments may lag behind the recovery of the overall economy. this decrease in spending will likely reduce the demand for some of our products and may adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition. during the financial crisis of 2008 and 2009, the u.s. homebuilding industry experienced a significant and sustained decrease in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale. during this same time period, the u.s. real estate industry also experienced a significant decrease in existing home turnover. the commercial and industrial building and maintenance sectors also experienced a significant decline. the downturn in each of these segments contributed to an unprecedented decline in the demand for some of our products. the recovery in new home starts, existing home sales and new commercial construction has been sluggish and erratic in many markets and remain below their pre-recession highs. in recent months, interest rates, including mortgage rates, have risen and are expected to continue to rise in 2017. although interest rates remain low by historical standards, this increase may adversely affect the demand for new residential homes, existing home turnover, and new non-residential construction. challenging market conditions are expected to continue for the foreseeable future and may worsen. a worsening in these segments will reduce the demand for some of our products and may adversely impact sales, earnings and cash flow. in the u.s. construction and housing segments, the recent demand for new construction has caused contractors to experience a shortage of skilled workers, resulting in project backlogs and an adverse effect on the rate of growth of demand for our products. while we expect to see higher demand for our products as project backlogs are reduced in the future, this labor shortage may adversely impact our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition. increases in the cost of raw materials and energy may adversely affect our earnings or cash flow. we purchase raw materials (including titanium dioxide and petrochemical feedstock sources, such as propylene and ethylene) and energy for use in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products. factors such as adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes, and other disasters can disrupt raw material and fuel supplies and increase our costs. although raw materials and energy supplies (including oil and natural gas) are generally available from various sources in sufficient 6 quantities, unexpected shortages and increases in the cost of raw materials and energy, or any deterioration in our relationships with or the financial viability of our suppliers, may have an adverse effect on our earnings or cash flow in the event we are unable to offset higher costs in a timely manner by sufficiently decreasing our operating costs or raising the prices of our products. recently, some raw material and energy prices have increased, particularly titanium dioxide and petrochemical feedstock sources, such as propylene and ethylene. the cost of raw materials and energy has in the past experienced, and likely will in the future continue to experience, periods of volatility. although we have an extensive customer base, the loss of any of our largest customers could adversely affect our sales, earnings or cash flow. we have a large and varied customer base due to our extensive distribution network. during 2016 , no individual customer accounted for sales totaling more than ten percent of our sales. however, we have some customers that, individually, purchase a large amount of products from us. although our broad distribution channels help to minimize the impact of the loss of any one customer, the loss of any of these large customers could have an adverse effect on our sales, earnings or cash flow. adverse weather conditions may temporarily reduce the demand for some of our products and could have a negative effect on our sales, earnings or cash flow. our business is seasonal in nature, with the second and third quarters typically generating a higher proportion of sales and earnings than other quarters. from time to time, adverse weather conditions in certain parts of the united states have had an adverse effect on our sales of paint, coatings and related products. for example, unusually cold and rainy weather could have an adverse effect on sales of our exterior paint products. an adverse effect on sales may cause a reduction in our earnings or cash flow. increased competition may reduce our sales, earnings or cash flow performance. we face substantial competition from many international, national, regional and local competitors of various sizes in the manufacture, distribution and sale of our paint, coatings and related products. some of our competitors are larger than us and have greater financial resources to compete. other competitors are smaller and may be able to offer more specialized products. technology, product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, distribution, service and price are the key competitive factors for our business. competition in any of these areas may reduce our sales and adversely affect our earnings or cash flow by resulting in decreased sales volumes, reduced prices and increased costs of manufacturing, distributing and selling our products. inability to protect or enforce our material trademarks and other intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect on our business. we have numerous patents, trade secrets, trademarks, trade names and know-how that are valuable to our business. despite our efforts to protect such intellectual property and other proprietary information from unauthorized use or disclosure, third parties may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our trademarks or such other intellectual property and information without our authorization. although we rely on the patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws of the united states and other countries to protect our intellectual property rights, the laws of some countries may not protect such rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, the failure of foreign countries to have laws to protect our intellectual property rights, or an inability to effectively enforce such rights in foreign countries could have an adverse effect on our business. our planned acquisition of valspar may not occur at all, may not occur in the expected time frame or may involve the divestiture of certain businesses, which may negatively affect the trading prices of our stock and our future business and financial results. on march 19, 2016, we and viking merger sub, inc., one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, which we refer to as merger sub, entered into an agreement and plan of merger, or merger agreement, with valspar, pursuant to which, among other things and subject to the satisfaction or waiver of specified conditions, merger sub will merge with and into valspar. as a result of the planned acquisition of valspar, merger sub will cease to exist, and valspar will survive as a wholly owned subsidiary of ours. completion of the planned acquisition of valspar is not assured and is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of customary closing conditions, including, among others: the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976, as amended; and the receipt of other required antitrust approvals. the planned acquisition of valspar is subject to risks and uncertainties, including the risk that the necessary regulatory approvals will not be obtained, the risk that the parties to the merger agreement may be required to divest certain businesses or assets in connection with the planned acquisition or that other closing conditions will not be satisfied. for example, in connection with obtaining the required regulatory approvals, the company and/or valspar may be required to divest assets of their respective businesses. we are not required to consummate the planned acquisition of valspar if antitrust authorities require 7 the divestiture of assets of valspar or us representing, in the aggregate, more than $1.5 billion in net sales, which for purposes of such calculation uses net sales for the applicable valspar assets calculated as of october 30, 2015, with certain exclusions. in addition, if these divested businesses represent, in the aggregate, less than $1.5 billion in net sales but more than $650 million in net sales, which for purposes of such calculation uses net sales for the applicable valspar assets calculated as of october 30, 2015 (subject to certain exclusions), then the per share consideration paid to valspar stockholders in connection with the planned acquisition will be $105 in cash instead of $113 in cash. if the planned acquisition of valspar is not completed, if there are significant delays in completing the planned acquisition or if the planned acquisition involves the divestiture of certain businesses, it could negatively affect the trading prices of our common stock and our future business and financial results and could result in our failure to realize certain synergies relating to such acquisition. our obligation to complete the planned acquisition of valspar is not subject to a financing condition. our obligation to complete the planned acquisition of valspar is not subject to a financing condition. we have obtained committed financing for $9.3 billion to pay a substantial portion of the purchase price for the acquisition of valspar. if any of the banks in the committed financing facilities are unable to perform their commitments, we may be required to finance a portion of the purchase price of the planned acquisition at interest rates higher than currently expected. we may not realize the growth opportunities and cost synergies that are anticipated from the planned acquisition of valspar. the benefits that are expected to result from the planned acquisition of valspar will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and cost synergies as a result of the planned acquisition. our success in realizing these growth opportunities and cost synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on whether the company or valspar are required to divest assets of their respective business and on the successful integration of valspar. there is a significant degree of difficulty and management distraction inherent in the process of integrating an acquisition as sizable as valspar. the process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, our and valspar's activities. members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our company, service existing customers, attract new customers, and develop new products or strategies. if senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. there can be no assurance that we will successfully or cost-effectively integrate valspar. the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. even if we are able to integrate valspar successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the growth opportunities and cost synergies that we currently expect from this integration, and we cannot guarantee that these benefits will be achieved within anticipated time frames or at all. for example, we may not be able to eliminate duplicative costs. moreover, we may incur substantial expenses in connection with the integration of valspar. while it is anticipated that certain expenses will be incurred to achieve cost synergies, such expenses are difficult to estimate accurately, and may exceed current estimates. accordingly, the benefits from the planned acquisition may be offset by costs incurred to, or delays in, integrating the businesses. we will incur a substantial amount of debt to complete the planned acquisition of valspar. to service our debt, we will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. we also depend on the business of our subsidiaries to satisfy our cash needs. if we cannot generate the required cash, we may not be able to make the necessary payments required under our indebtedness. at december 31, 2016 , we had total debt of approximately $2.0 billion . we have the ability under our existing credit facilities to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, and we plan to incur significant additional indebtedness in the event we complete the planned acquisition of valspar. we expect to incur up to $9.3 billion of debt to complete the acquisition of valspar. our ability to make payments on our debt, fund our other liquidity needs, and make planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. our historical financial results have been, and we anticipate that our future financial results will be, subject to fluctuations. our ability to generate cash, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot guarantee that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from our operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to make payments of our debt, fund other liquidity needs and make planned capital expenditures. the degree to which we are currently leveraged and will be leveraged following the completion of the planned acquisition could have important consequences for shareholders. for example, it could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; 8 increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to enable us to react to changes in our business; or place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have less debt. additionally, any failure to comply with covenants in the instruments governing our debt could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, would have a material adverse effect on us. a significant portion of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. as a result, our ability to generate sufficient cash flow for our needs is dependent to some extent on the earnings of our subsidiaries and the payment of those earnings to us in the form of dividends, loans or advances and through repayment of loans or advances from us. our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities. our subsidiaries have no obligation to pay any amounts due on our debt or to provide us with funds to meet our cash flow needs, whether in the form of dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. in addition, any payment of dividends, loans or advances by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions. payments to us by our subsidiaries will also be contingent upon our subsidiaries' earnings and business considerations. our right to receive any assets of any of our subsidiaries upon their liquidation or reorganization will be effectively subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary's creditors, including trade creditors. in addition, even if we are a creditor of any of our subsidiaries, our rights as a creditor would be subordinate to any security interest in the assets of our subsidiaries and any indebtedness of our subsidiaries senior to that held by us. finally, changes in the laws of foreign jurisdictions in which we operate may adversely affect the ability of some of our foreign subsidiaries to repatriate funds to us. our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition may be negatively impacted if we do not successfully integrate future acquisitions into our existing operations and if the performance of the businesses we acquire do not meet our expectations. we have historically made strategic acquisitions of businesses in the paint and coatings industry and will likely acquire additional businesses in the future as part of our long-term growth strategy. the success of future acquisitions, including the planned acquisition of valspar, depends in large part on our ability to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired companies and manage challenges that may arise as a result of the acquisitions, particularly when the acquired businesses operate in new or foreign markets. in the event that we do not successfully integrate such future acquisitions into our existing operations so as to realize the expected return on our investment, our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition could be adversely affected. risks and uncertainties associated with our expansion into and our operations in asia, europe, south america and other foreign markets could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. net external sales of our consolidated foreign subsidiaries totaled approximately 14.5% , 15.8% and 19.8% of our total consolidated net sales in 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. sales outside of the united states make up a significant part of our current business and future strategic plans. our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition could be adversely affected by a variety of international factors, including general economic conditions, inflation rates, recessions, foreign currency exchange rates, foreign currency exchange controls, interest rates, foreign investment and repatriation restrictions, legal and regulatory constraints, civil unrest, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and other external economic and political factors. our inability to successfully manage the risks and uncertainties relating to these factors could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. in many foreign countries, it is acceptable to engage in certain business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in because of regulations that are applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and the uk bribery act. although we have internal control policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these regulations, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will prevent a violation of these regulations. any violation could cause an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. because of our international operations, we are exposed to risk associated with interest rates and value changes in foreign currencies, which may adversely affect our business. historically, our reported net sales, earnings, cash flow and financial condition have been subjected to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. our primary exchange rate exposure is with the argentine peso, the brazilian real, the british pound, the canadian dollar, the chilean peso, the euro and the mexican peso, each against the u.s. dollar. while we actively manage the exposure of our foreign currency risk as part of our overall financial risk management policy, we believe we may experience losses from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, and such losses could adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. 9 we are subject to a wide variety of complex domestic and foreign laws, rules and regulations, for which compliance could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. we are subject to a wide variety of complex domestic and foreign laws, rules and regulations, and legal compliance risks, including securities laws, tax laws, employment and pension-related laws, competition laws, u.s. and foreign export and trading laws, data privacy and security laws, and laws governing improper business practices. we are affected by new laws and regulations, and changes to existing laws and regulations, including interpretations by courts and regulators. from time to time, our company, our operations and the industries in which we operate are being reviewed or investigated by regulators, which could lead to enforcement actions or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages. although we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs to mitigate these risks, the global and diverse nature of our operations means that compliance risks will continue to exist. investigations, examinations and other proceedings, the nature and outcome of which cannot be predicted, will likely arise from time to time. these investigations, examinations and other proceedings could subject us to significant liability and require us to take significant accruals or pay significant settlements, fines and penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. we are subject to tax laws and regulations in the united states and multiple foreign jurisdictions. we are affected by changes in tax laws and regulations, as well as changes in related interpretations and other tax guidance. in the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to examinations and investigations by various tax authorities. in addition to existing examinations and investigations, there could be additional examinations and investigations in the future, and existing examinations and investigations could be expanded. for non-income tax risks, we estimate material loss contingencies and accrue for such loss contingencies as required by u.s. generally accepted accounting principles based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency. in the event the loss contingency is ultimately determined to be significantly higher than currently accrued, the recording of the additional liability may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such additional liability is accrued. in those cases where no accrual is recorded because it is not probable that a liability has been incurred and cannot be reasonably estimated, any potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued or paid. for income tax risks, we recognize tax benefits based on our assessment that a tax benefit has a greater than 50% likelihood of being sustained upon ultimate settlement with the applicable taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant facts. for those income tax positions where we assess that there is not a greater than 50% likelihood that such tax benefits will be sustained, we do not recognize a tax benefit in our financial statements. subsequent events may cause us to change our assessment of the likelihood of sustaining a previously-recognized benefit which could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial position for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued or paid. we discuss risks and uncertainties with regard to taxes in more detail in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 69 and 70 of our 2016 annual report. unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer, employee, supplier or company information, whether through a breach of our computer systems, including cyber attacks, or otherwise, could severely harm our business. as part of our business, we collect, process, and retain sensitive and confidential personal information about our customers, employees and suppliers. despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of the retailers, dealers, licensees and other third party suppliers and vendors with which we do business, may be vulnerable to security breaches, cyber attacks, acts of vandalism or misconduct, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer, employee, supplier or company information, whether by us or by the retailers, dealers, licensees and other third party suppliers and vendors with which we do business, could result in losses, severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. as cyber security threats evolve in sophistication and become more prevalent in numerous industries worldwide, we continue to increase our sensitivity and attention to these threats and seek additional investments and resources to address these threats and enhance the security of our facilities and systems. the regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and privacy is increasingly rigorous and complex, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business, and compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs. 10 we are required to comply with numerous complex and increasingly stringent domestic and foreign health, safety and environmental laws and regulations, the cost of which is likely to increase and may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. our operations are subject to various domestic and foreign health, safety and environmental laws and regulations. these laws and regulations not only govern our current operations and products, but also impose potential liability on us for our past operations. we expect health, safety and environmental laws and regulations to impose increasingly stringent requirements upon our industry and us in the future. our costs to comply with these laws and regulations may increase as these requirements become more stringent in the future, and these increased costs may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. we are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of our currently and formerly owned sites, as well as a number of third-party sites, for which our ultimate liability may exceed the current amount we have accrued. we are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of our currently and formerly owned sites and a number of third-party sites. we accrue for estimated costs of investigation and remediation activities at these sites for which commitments or clean-up plans have been developed and when such costs can be reasonably estimated based on industry standards and professional judgment. these estimated costs are based on currently available facts regarding each site. we continuously assess our potential liability for investigation and remediation activities and adjust our environmental-related accruals as information becomes available upon which more accurate costs can be reasonably estimated. due to the uncertainties surrounding environmental investigation and remediation activities, our liability may result in costs that are significantly higher than currently accrued and may have an adverse effect on our earnings. we discuss these risks and uncertainties in more detail on page 25 of our 2016 annual report under the caption environmental matters, page 29 of our 2016 annual report under the caption environmental-related liabilities and in note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 61 through 62 of our 2016 annual report. the nature, cost, quantity and outcome of pending and future litigation, such as litigation arising from the historical manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paint, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition. in the course of our business, we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits, including, but not limited to, litigation relating to product liability and warranty, personal injury, environmental, intellectual property, commercial, contractual and antitrust claims that are inherently subject to many uncertainties regarding the possibility of a loss to us. these uncertainties will ultimately be resolved when one or more future events occur or fail to occur confirming the incurrence of a liability or the reduction of a liability. in accordance with the contingencies topic of the asc, we accrue for these contingencies by a charge to income when it is both probable that one or more future events will occur confirming the fact of a loss and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. in the event that a loss contingency is ultimately determined to be significantly higher than currently accrued, the recording of the additional liability may result in a material impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such additional liability is accrued. in those cases where no accrual is recorded because it is not probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of any such loss cannot be reasonably estimated, any potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us may result in a material impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued. in those cases where no accrual is recorded or exposure to loss exists in excess of the amount accrued, the contingencies topic of the asc requires disclosure of the contingency when there is a reasonable possibility that a loss or additional loss may have been incurred. our past operations included the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paints. along with other companies, we are and have been a defendant in a number of legal proceedings, including individual personal injury actions, purported class actions and actions brought by various counties, cities, school districts and other government-related entities, arising from the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paints. the plaintiffs' claims have been based upon various legal theories, including negligence, strict liability, breach of warranty, negligent misrepresentations and omissions, fraudulent misrepresentations and omissions, concert of action, civil conspiracy, violations of unfair trade practice and consumer protection laws, enterprise liability, market share liability, public nuisance, unjust enrichment and other theories. the plaintiffs seek various damages and relief, including personal injury and property damage, costs relating to the detection and abatement of lead-based paint from buildings, costs associated with a public education campaign, medical monitoring costs and others. we have also been a defendant in legal proceedings arising from the manufacture and sale of non-lead-based paints that seek recovery based upon various legal theories, including the failure to adequately warn of potential exposure to lead during surface preparation when using non-lead-based paint on surfaces previously painted with lead-based paint. we believe that the litigation brought to date is without merit or subject to meritorious defenses and are vigorously defending such litigation. we have not settled any material lead pigment or lead-based paint litigation. we expect that additional lead pigment and lead-based 11 paint litigation may be filed against us in the future asserting similar or different legal theories and seeking similar or different types of damages and relief. notwithstanding our views on the merits, litigation is inherently subject to many uncertainties, and we ultimately may not prevail. adverse court rulings, such as the court's decision in the santa clara county, california proceeding, the jury verdict against us and other defendants in the state of rhode island action and the wisconsin state supreme court's determination that wisconsin's risk contribution theory may apply in the lead pigment litigation, or determinations of liability, among other factors, could affect the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation against us and encourage an increase in the number and nature of future claims and proceedings. in addition, from time to time, various legislation and administrative regulations have been enacted, promulgated or proposed to impose obligations on present and former manufacturers of lead pigments and lead-based paints respecting asserted health concerns associated with such products or to overturn the effect of court decisions in which we and other manufacturers have been successful. due to the uncertainties involved, management is unable to predict the outcome of the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, the number or nature of possible future claims and proceedings, or the effect that any legislation and/or administrative regulations may have on the litigation or against us. in addition, management cannot reasonably determine the scope or amount of the potential costs and liabilities related to such litigation, or resulting from any such legislation and regulations. we have not accrued any amounts for such litigation. with respect to such litigation, including the public nuisance litigation, the company does not believe that it is probable that a loss has occurred, and it is not possible to estimate the range of potential losses as there is no prior history of a loss of this nature and there is no substantive information upon which an estimate could be based. in addition, any potential liability that may result from any changes to legislation and regulations cannot reasonably be estimated. in the event any significant liability is determined to be attributable to us relating to such litigation, the recording of the liability may result in a material impact on net income for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued. additionally, due to the uncertainties associated with the amount of any such liability and/or the nature of any other remedy which may be imposed in such litigation, any potential liability determined to be attributable to us arising out of such litigation may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. an estimate of the potential impact on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition cannot be made due to the aforementioned uncertainties. a trial commenced in the santa clara county, california proceeding on july 15, 2013 and ended on august 22, 2013. the court entered final judgment on january 27, 2014, finding in favor of the plaintiffs and against the company and two other defendants, and holding the company jointly and severally liable with the other two defendants to pay $1.15 billion into a fund to abate the public nuisance. the company has filed a notice of appeal. however, if the appeal process is unsuccessful at reversing the decision or otherwise reducing the amount of the judgment, we and the other defendants will be subject to significant liabilities, costs and expenses to abate the public nuisance in, on and around residences in the plaintiffs' jurisdictions, which could encourage an increase in future public nuisance claims and proceedings. any adverse court rulings or any determinations of liability against us may result in a material impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we discuss the risks and uncertainties related to litigation, including the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, in more detail on page 25 of our 2016 annual report under the caption litigation and other contingent liabilities and in note 9 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 62 through 65 of our 2016 annual report. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 18 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk associated with interest rates, foreign currency and commodity fluctuations. we occasionally utilize derivative instruments as part of our overall financial risk management policy, but do not use derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes. the company entered into foreign currency option and forward currency exchange contracts during 2016 to hedge against value changes in foreign currency. there were no material contracts outstanding at december 31, 2016 . foreign currency option and forward contracts are described in note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on page 69 of our 2016 annual report. we believe we may experience continuing losses from foreign currency fluctuations. however, we do not expect currency translation, transaction or hedging contract losses to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in 2016, we entered into a series of interest rate lock agreements. see note 7 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 60 through 61 of our 2016 annual report. 18risk factors 5 risk factors the risks described below and in other documents that we file from time to time with the securities and exchange commission could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. adverse changes in general business and economic conditions in the united states and worldwide may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. our business is sensitive to global and regional business and economic conditions. adverse changes in such conditions in the united states and worldwide may reduce the demand for some of our products and impair the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us, each of which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. higher inflation rates, interest rates, tax rates and unemployment rates, higher labor and healthcare costs, recessions, changing governmental policies, laws and regulations, and other economic factors could also adversely affect demand for some of our products and our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition and that of our customers, vendors, and suppliers. a weakening or reversal of the general economic recovery in the united states and other countries and regions in which we do business, or the continuation or worsening of economic downturns in other countries and regions, may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. global economic uncertainty continues to exist. a weakening or reversal of the general economic recovery in the united states and other countries and regions in which we do business, or the continuation or worsening of economic downturns in other countries and regions, may adversely impact our net sales, the collection of accounts receivable, funding for working capital needs, expected cash flow generation from current and acquired businesses, and our investments, which may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we finance a portion of our sales through trade credit. credit markets remain tight, and some customers who require financing for their businesses have not been able to obtain necessary financing. a continuation or worsening of these conditions 5 could limit our ability to collect our accounts receivable, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we generally fund a portion of our seasonal working capital needs and obtain funding for other general corporate purposes through short-term borrowings backed by our revolving credit facility and other financing facilities. if any of the banks in these credit and financing facilities are unable to perform on their commitments, which could adversely affect our ability to fund seasonal working capital needs and obtain funding for other general corporate purposes, our cash flow, liquidity or financial condition could be adversely impacted. although we currently have available credit facilities to fund our current operating needs, we cannot be certain that we will be able to replace our existing credit facilities or refinance our existing or future debt when necessary. our cost of borrowing and ability to access the capital markets are affected not only by market conditions, but also by our debt and credit ratings assigned by the major credit rating agencies. downgrades in these ratings will increase our cost of borrowing and could have an adverse effect on our access to the capital markets, including our access to the commercial paper market. an inability to access the capital markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we have goodwill and intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. we periodically evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of our goodwill and intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that such value may not be recoverable. an impairment assessment involves judgment as to assumptions regarding future sales and cash flows and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions. future events and changing market conditions may impact our assumptions and may result in changes in our estimates of future sales and cash flows that may result in us incurring substantial impairment charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we hold investments in equity and debt securities in some of our defined benefit pension plans. a decrease in the value of plan assets resulting from a general financial downturn may cause a negative pension plan investment performance, which may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. protracted duration of economic downturns in cyclical segments of the economy may depress the demand for some of our products and adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition. portions of our business involve the sale of paint, coatings and related products to segments of the economy that are cyclical in nature, particularly segments relating to construction, housing, manufacturing and oil production, refining, storage and transportation. our sales to these segments are affected by the levels of discretionary consumer and business spending in these segments. during economic downturns in these segments, the levels of consumer and business discretionary spending may decrease, and the recovery of these segments may lag behind the recovery of the overall economy. this decrease in spending will likely reduce the demand for some of our products and may adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition. in recent months, interest rates, including mortgage rates, have risen and are expected to continue to rise in 2018 . although interest rates remain low by historical standards, this increase may adversely affect the demand for new residential homes, existing home turnover, and new non-residential construction. challenging market conditions are expected to continue for the foreseeable future and may worsen. a worsening in these segments will reduce the demand for some of our products and may adversely impact sales, earnings and cash flow. in the u.s. construction and housing segments, the recent demand for new construction has caused contractors to experience a shortage of skilled workers, resulting in project backlogs and an adverse effect on the rate of growth of demand for our products. while we expect to see higher demand for our products as project backlogs are reduced in the future, this labor shortage may adversely impact our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition. increases in the cost of raw materials and energy may adversely affect our earnings or cash flow. we purchase raw materials (including titanium dioxide and petrochemical feedstock sources, such as propylene and ethylene) and energy for use in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products. factors such as adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes, and other disasters can disrupt raw material and fuel supplies and increase our costs. although raw materials and energy supplies (including oil and natural gas) are generally available from various sources in sufficient quantities, unexpected shortages and increases in the cost of raw materials and energy, or any deterioration in our relationships with or the financial viability of our suppliers, may have an adverse effect on our earnings or cash flow in the event we are unable to offset higher costs in a timely manner by sufficiently decreasing our operating costs or raising the prices of our products. recently, some raw material and energy prices have increased, particularly titanium dioxide and petrochemical feedstock sources, such as propylene and ethylene. the cost of raw materials and energy has in the past experienced, and likely will in the future continue to experience, periods of volatility. 6 although we have an extensive customer base, the loss of any of our largest customers could adversely affect our sales, earnings or cash flow. we have a large and varied customer base due to our extensive distribution network. during 2017 , no individual customer accounted for sales totaling more than ten percent of our sales. however, we have some customers that, individually, purchase a large amount of products from us. although our broad distribution channels help to minimize the impact of the loss of any one customer, the loss of any of these large customers could have an adverse effect on our sales, earnings or cash flow. increased competition may reduce our sales, earnings or cash flow performance. we face substantial competition from many international, national, regional and local competitors of various sizes in the manufacture, distribution and sale of our paint, coatings and related products. some of our competitors are larger than us and have greater financial resources to compete. other competitors are smaller and may be able to offer more specialized products. technology, product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, distribution, service and price are the key competitive factors for our business. competition in any of these areas may reduce our sales and adversely affect our earnings or cash flow by resulting in decreased sales volumes, reduced prices and increased costs of manufacturing, distributing and selling our products. we may not realize the growth opportunities and cost synergies that are anticipated from the acquisition of valspar. the benefits that are expected to result from the acquisition of valspar will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and cost synergies as a result of the acquisition. our success in realizing these growth opportunities and cost synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of valspar. there is a significant degree of difficulty and management distraction inherent in the process of integrating an acquisition as sizable as valspar. the process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, our activities. members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our company, service existing customers, attract new customers, and develop new products or strategies. if senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. there can be no assurance that we will successfully or cost-effectively integrate valspar. the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. even if we are able to integrate valspar successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the growth opportunities and cost synergies that we currently expect from this integration, and we cannot guarantee that these benefits will be achieved within anticipated time frames or at all. for example, we may not be able to eliminate all duplicative costs. moreover, we may incur substantial expenses in connection with the integration of valspar. while it is anticipated that certain expenses will be incurred to achieve cost synergies, such expenses are difficult to estimate accurately, and may exceed current estimates. accordingly, the benefits from the acquisition may be offset by costs incurred to, or delays in, integrating the businesses. we incurred a substantial amount of debt to complete the acquisition of valspar. to service our debt, we will require a significant amount of cash. our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. we also depend on the business of our subsidiaries to satisfy our cash needs. if we cannot generate the required cash, we may not be able to make the necessary payments required under our indebtedness. at december 31, 2017 , we had total debt of approximately $10.5 billion , which is an increase of $8.6 billion since december 31, 2016 , including indebtedness incurred to complete the acquisition of valspar. we have the ability under our existing credit facilities to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to make payments on our debt, fund our other liquidity needs, and make planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. our historical financial results have been, and we anticipate that our future financial results will be, subject to fluctuations. our ability to generate cash, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. we cannot guarantee that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from our operations or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to make payments of our debt, fund other liquidity needs and make planned capital expenditures. the degree to which we are currently leveraged could have important consequences for shareholders. for example, it could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; 7 limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to enable us to react to changes in our business; or place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have less debt. additionally, any failure to comply with covenants in the instruments governing our debt could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, would have a material adverse effect on us. a significant portion of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. as a result, our ability to generate sufficient cash flow for our needs is dependent to some extent on the earnings of our subsidiaries and the payment of those earnings to us in the form of dividends, loans or advances and through repayment of loans or advances from us. our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities. our subsidiaries have no obligation to pay any amounts due on our debt or to provide us with funds to meet our cash flow needs, whether in the form of dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. in addition, any payment of dividends, loans or advances by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions. payments to us by our subsidiaries will also be contingent upon our subsidiaries' earnings and business considerations. our right to receive any assets of any of our subsidiaries upon their liquidation or reorganization will be effectively subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary's creditors, including trade creditors. in addition, even if we are a creditor of any of our subsidiaries, our rights as a creditor would be subordinate to any security interest in the assets of our subsidiaries and any indebtedness of our subsidiaries senior to that held by us. finally, changes in the laws of foreign jurisdictions in which we operate may adversely affect the ability of some of our foreign subsidiaries to repatriate funds to us. our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition may be negatively impacted if we do not successfully integrate future acquisitions into our existing operations and if the performance of the businesses we acquire do not meet our expectations. we have historically made strategic acquisitions of businesses in the paint and coatings industry and will likely acquire additional businesses in the future as part of our long-term growth strategy. the success of future acquisitions depends in large part on our ability to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired companies and manage challenges that may arise as a result of the acquisitions, particularly when the acquired businesses operate in new or foreign markets. in the event that we do not successfully integrate such future acquisitions into our existing operations so as to realize the expected return on our investment, our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition could be adversely affected. risks and uncertainties associated with our expansion into and our operations in asia, europe, south america and other foreign markets could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. net external sales of our consolidated foreign subsidiaries totaled approximately 19.8% , 14.5% and 15.8% of our total consolidated net sales in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. sales outside of the united states make up a significant part of our current business and future strategic plans. our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition could be adversely affected by a variety of international factors, including general economic conditions, inflation rates, recessions, foreign currency exchange rates, foreign currency exchange controls, interest rates, foreign investment and repatriation restrictions, legal and regulatory constraints, civil unrest, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and other external economic and political factors. our inability to successfully manage the risks and uncertainties relating to these factors could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. in many foreign countries, it is acceptable to engage in certain business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in because of regulations that are applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and the uk bribery act. although we have internal control policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these regulations, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will prevent a violation of these regulations. any violation could cause an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. because of our international operations, we are exposed to risk associated with interest rates and value changes in foreign currencies, which may adversely affect our business. historically, our reported net sales, earnings, cash flow and financial condition have been subjected to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. our primary exchange rate exposure is with the euro, the chinese yuan, the brazilian real, the canadian dollar, the british pound, the mexican peso and the australian dollar, each against the u.s. dollar. while we actively manage the exposure of our foreign currency risk as part of our overall financial risk management policy, we believe we may experience losses from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, and such losses could adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. 8 we are subject to a wide variety of complex domestic and foreign laws, rules and regulations, for which compliance could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. we are subject to a wide variety of complex domestic and foreign laws, rules and regulations, and legal compliance risks, including securities laws, tax laws, employment and pension-related laws, competition laws, u.s. and foreign export and trading laws, data privacy and security laws, and laws governing improper business practices. we are affected by new laws and regulations, and changes to existing laws and regulations, including interpretations by courts and regulators. from time to time, our company, our operations and the industries in which we operate are being reviewed or investigated by regulators, which could lead to enforcement actions or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages. although we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs to mitigate these risks, the global and diverse nature of our operations means that compliance risks will continue to exist. investigations, examinations and other proceedings, the nature and outcome of which cannot be predicted, will likely arise from time to time. these investigations, examinations and other proceedings could subject us to significant liability and require us to take significant accruals or pay significant settlements, fines and penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. we are subject to tax laws and regulations in the united states and multiple foreign jurisdictions. we are affected by changes in tax laws and regulations, as well as changes in related interpretations and other tax guidance. in the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to examinations and investigations by various tax authorities. in addition to existing examinations and investigations, there could be additional examinations and investigations in the future, and existing examinations and investigations could be expanded. on december 22, 2017, u.s. tax reform legislation known as the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ) was signed into law. the tax act makes substantial changes to u.s. tax law, including a reduction in the corporate tax rate, a limitation on deductibility of interest expense, a limitation on the use of net operating losses to offset future taxable income, the allowance of immediate expensing of capital expenditures, deemed repatriation of foreign earnings and significant changes to the taxation of foreign earnings going forward. the tax act contains numerous, complex provisions impacting u.s. multinational companies, and we continue to review and assess the legislative language and its potential impact on us. the full extent of the impact remains uncertain at this time, and our current interpretations of, and assumptions regarding, the tax act are subject to additional regulatory or administrative developments, including any regulations or other guidance promulgated by the u.s. internal revenue service. as a result, the tax act, including any regulations or other guidance promulgated by the u.s. internal revenue service, and other tax laws could have significant effects on us, some of which may be adverse and could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for non-income tax risks, we estimate material loss contingencies and accrue for such loss contingencies as required by u.s. generally accepted accounting principles based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency. in the event the loss contingency is ultimately determined to be significantly higher than currently accrued, the recording of the additional liability may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such additional liability is accrued. in those cases where no accrual is recorded because it is not probable that a liability has been incurred and cannot be reasonably estimated, any potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued or paid. for income tax risks, we recognize tax benefits based on our assessment that a tax benefit has a greater than 50% likelihood of being sustained upon ultimate settlement with the applicable taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant facts. for those income tax positions where we assess that there is not a greater than 50% likelihood that such tax benefits will be sustained, we do not recognize a tax benefit in our financial statements. subsequent events may cause us to change our assessment of the likelihood of sustaining a previously-recognized benefit which could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial position for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued or paid. we discuss risks and uncertainties with regard to taxes in more detail in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 70 through 72 of our 2017 annual report. adverse weather conditions and natural disasters may temporarily reduce the demand for some of our products and could have a negative effect on our sales, earnings or cash flow. our business is seasonal in nature, with the second and third quarters typically generating a higher proportion of sales and earnings than other quarters. from time to time, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters have had an adverse effect on our sales of paint, coatings and related products. for example, during 2017 the impact of hurricanes harvey, irma and maria on our operations in texas, florida, the caribbean and neighboring areas, as well as two earthquakes in mexico, resulted in a 9 temporary shutdown of our company-operated paint stores, manufacturing facilities and distribution centers in the affected regions, resulting in reduced revenues. in addition, unusually cold and rainy weather could have an adverse effect on sales of our exterior paint products. an adverse effect on sales may cause a reduction in our earnings or cash flow. inability to protect or enforce our material trademarks and other intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect on our business. we have numerous patents, trade secrets, trademarks, trade names and know-how that are valuable to our business. despite our efforts to protect such intellectual property and other proprietary information from unauthorized use or disclosure, third parties may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our trademarks or such other intellectual property and information without our authorization. although we rely on the patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws of the united states and other countries to protect our intellectual property rights, the laws of some countries may not protect such rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, the failure of foreign countries to have laws to protect our intellectual property rights, or an inability to effectively enforce such rights in foreign countries could have an adverse effect on our business. unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential customer, employee, supplier or company information, whether through a breach of our computer systems, including cyber attacks, or otherwise, could severely harm our business. as part of our business, we collect, process, and retain sensitive and confidential personal information about our customers, employees and suppliers. despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of the retailers, dealers, licensees and other third party suppliers and vendors with which we do business, may be vulnerable to security breaches, cyber attacks, acts of vandalism or misconduct, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer, employee, supplier or company information, whether by us or by the retailers, dealers, licensees and other third party suppliers and vendors with which we do business, could result in losses, severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. as cyber security threats evolve in sophistication and become more prevalent in numerous industries worldwide, we continue to increase our sensitivity and attention to these threats and seek additional investments and resources to address these threats and enhance the security of our facilities and systems. the regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and privacy is increasingly rigorous and complex, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business, and compliance with those requirements could result in additional costs. we are required to comply with numerous complex and increasingly stringent domestic and foreign health, safety and environmental laws and regulations, the cost of which is likely to increase and may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. our operations are subject to various domestic and foreign health, safety and environmental laws and regulations. these laws and regulations not only govern our current operations and products, but also impose potential liability on us for our past operations. we expect health, safety and environmental laws and regulations to impose increasingly stringent requirements upon our industry and us in the future. our costs to comply with these laws and regulations may increase as these requirements become more stringent in the future, and these increased costs may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. we are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of our currently and formerly owned sites, as well as a number of third-party sites, for which our ultimate liability may exceed the current amount we have accrued. we are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of our currently and formerly owned sites and a number of third-party sites. we accrue for estimated costs of investigation and remediation activities at these sites for which commitments or clean-up plans have been developed and when such costs can be reasonably estimated based on industry standards and professional judgment. these estimated costs are based on currently available facts regarding each site. we continuously assess our potential liability for investigation and remediation activities and adjust our environmental-related accruals as information becomes available upon which more accurate costs can be reasonably estimated. due to the uncertainties surrounding environmental investigation and remediation activities, our liability may result in costs that are significantly higher than currently accrued and may have an adverse effect on our earnings. we discuss these risks and uncertainties in more detail on page 23 of our 2017 annual report under the caption environmental matters, page 27 of our 2017 annual report under the caption environmental-related liabilities and in note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 62 through 63 of our 2017 annual report. 10 the nature, cost, quantity and outcome of pending and future litigation, such as litigation arising from the historical manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paint, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition. in the course of our business, we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits, including, but not limited to, litigation relating to product liability and warranty, personal injury, environmental, intellectual property, commercial, contractual and antitrust claims that are inherently subject to many uncertainties regarding the possibility of a loss to us. these uncertainties will ultimately be resolved when one or more future events occur or fail to occur confirming the incurrence of a liability or the reduction of a liability. in accordance with the contingencies topic of the asc, we accrue for these contingencies by a charge to income when it is both probable that one or more future events will occur confirming the fact of a loss and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. in the event that a loss contingency is ultimately determined to be significantly higher than currently accrued, the recording of the additional liability may result in a material impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such additional liability is accrued. in those cases where no accrual is recorded because it is not probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of any such loss cannot be reasonably estimated, any potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us may result in a material impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued. in those cases where no accrual is recorded or exposure to loss exists in excess of the amount accrued, the contingencies topic of the asc requires disclosure of the contingency when there is a reasonable possibility that a loss or additional loss may have been incurred. our past operations included the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paints. along with other companies, we are and have been a defendant in a number of legal proceedings, including individual personal injury actions, purported class actions and actions brought by various counties, cities, school districts and other government-related entities, arising from the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paints. the plaintiffs' claims have been based upon various legal theories, including negligence, strict liability, breach of warranty, negligent misrepresentations and omissions, fraudulent misrepresentations and omissions, concert of action, civil conspiracy, violations of unfair trade practice and consumer protection laws, enterprise liability, market share liability, public nuisance, unjust enrichment and other theories. the plaintiffs seek various damages and relief, including personal injury and property damage, costs relating to the detection and abatement of lead-based paint from buildings, costs associated with a public education campaign, medical monitoring costs and others. we have also been a defendant in legal proceedings arising from the manufacture and sale of non-lead-based paints that seek recovery based upon various legal theories, including the failure to adequately warn of potential exposure to lead during surface preparation when using non-lead-based paint on surfaces previously painted with lead-based paint. we believe that the litigation brought to date is without merit or subject to meritorious defenses and are vigorously defending such litigation. we have not settled any material lead pigment or lead-based paint litigation. we expect that additional lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation may be filed against us in the future asserting similar or different legal theories and seeking similar or different types of damages and relief. notwithstanding our views on the merits, litigation is inherently subject to many uncertainties, and we ultimately may not prevail. adverse court rulings, such as the court's decision in the santa clara county, california proceeding, the jury verdict against us and other defendants in the state of rhode island action and the wisconsin state supreme court's determination that wisconsin's risk contribution theory may apply in the lead pigment litigation, or determinations of liability, among other factors, could affect the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation against us and encourage an increase in the number and nature of future claims and proceedings. in addition, from time to time, various legislation and administrative regulations have been enacted, promulgated or proposed to impose obligations on present and former manufacturers of lead pigments and lead-based paints respecting asserted health concerns associated with such products or to overturn the effect of court decisions in which we and other manufacturers have been successful. due to the uncertainties involved, management is unable to predict the outcome of the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, the number or nature of possible future claims and proceedings, or the effect that any legislation and/or administrative regulations may have on the litigation or against us. in addition, management cannot reasonably determine the scope or amount of the potential costs and liabilities related to such litigation, or resulting from any such legislation and regulations. we have not accrued any amounts for such litigation. with respect to such litigation, including the public nuisance litigation, the company does not believe that it is probable that a loss has occurred, and it is not possible to estimate the range of potential losses as there is no prior history of a loss of this nature and there is no substantive information upon which an estimate could be based. in addition, any potential liability that may result from any changes to legislation and regulations cannot reasonably be estimated. in the event any significant liability is determined to be attributable to us relating to such litigation, the recording of the liability may result in a material impact on net income for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued. additionally, due to the uncertainties associated with the amount of any such liability and/or the nature of any other remedy which may be imposed in such litigation, any potential liability determined to be attributable to us arising out of such litigation may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial 11 condition. an estimate of the potential impact on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition cannot be made due to the aforementioned uncertainties. a trial commenced in the santa clara county, california proceeding on july 15, 2013 and ended on august 22, 2013. the court entered final judgment on january 27, 2014, finding in favor of the plaintiffs and against the company and two other defendants (conagra grocery products company and nl industries, inc.). the final judgment held the company jointly and severally liable with the other two defendants to pay $1.15 billion into a fund to abate the public nuisance. the company strongly disagrees with the judgment. on february 18, 2014, the company filed a motion for a new trial and a motion to vacate the judgment. the court denied these motions on march 24, 2014. on march 28, 2014, the company filed a notice of appeal to the sixth district court of appeal for the state of california. the filing of the notice of appeal effects an automatic stay of the judgment without the requirement to post a bond. oral argument before the sixth district court of appeal was held on august 24, 2017. on november 14, 2017, the sixth district court of appeal entered its decision, which affirmed the trial court's judgment of liability with respect to residences built before 1951 and reversed and vacated the trial court's judgment with respect to residences built after 1950. the sixth district court of appeal directed the trial court to: (i) recalculate the amount of the abatement fund to limit the fund to the amount necessary to cover the cost of inspecting and remediating pre-1951 residences; and (ii) hold an evidentiary hearing to appoint a suitable receiver. on november 29, 2017, the company and the two other defendants filed separate petitions for rehearing, which the sixth district court of appeal denied on december 6, 2017. the sixth district court of appeal's decision became final on december 14, 2017. on december 22, 2017, the company and the two other defendants submitted separate petitions for review to the california supreme court. on february 14, 2018, the california supreme court issued an order denying the petitions for review. the company believes that the judgment conflicts with established principles of law and is unsupported by the evidence. the company intends to file a petition for writ of certiorari with the supreme court of the united states seeking discretionary review. the company also intends to file a motion to stay the santa clara county, california proceeding while the petition for writ of certiorari is pending. although the company believes it is probable that a loss has occurred, the company has concluded that it is not possible to reasonably estimate the range of potential loss due to the numerous possible outcomes and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, (i) the final amount of the abatement fund necessary to cover the cost of inspecting and remediating pre-1951 residences, as recalculated by the trial court, and (ii) the portion of the abatement fund for which the company, the two other defendants and others are determined to be responsible. if the company concludes that it is possible to reasonably estimate the range of potential loss once more definitive information becomes available, the company will recognize the loss and disclose such information. because of joint and several liability, it is possible the company could ultimately be liable for the total amount of the abatement fund. in the event any significant liability is determined to be attributable to the company relating to such litigation, the recording of any liability may result in a material impact on the company's results of operations, liquidity or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued. we discuss the risks and uncertainties related to litigation, including the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, in more detail in note 9 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 63 through 66 of our 2017 annual report. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 17 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk associated with interest rates, foreign currency and commodity fluctuations. we occasionally utilize derivative instruments as part of our overall financial risk management policy, but do not use derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes. the company entered into foreign currency option and forward currency exchange contracts during 2017 to hedge against value changes in foreign currency. there were no material contracts outstanding at december 31, 2017 . foreign currency option and forward contracts are described in note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on page 70 of our 2017 annual report. we believe we may experience continuing losses from foreign currency fluctuations. however, we do not expect currency translation, transaction or hedging contract losses to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.the interest rate lock agreements entered into in 2016 were settled during 2017. see note 7 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 61 through 62 of our 2017 annual report. 17risk factors 5 risk factors the risks described below and in other documents we file from time to time with the securities and exchange commission could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. adverse changes in general business and economic conditions in the united states and worldwide may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. our business is sensitive to global and regional business and economic conditions. adverse changes in such conditions in the united states and worldwide may reduce the demand for some of our products and impair the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us, each of which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. higher inflation rates, interest rates, tax rates and unemployment rates, higher labor and healthcare costs, recessions, changing governmental policies, laws and regulations, and other economic factors could also adversely affect demand for some of our products and our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition and that of our customers, vendors and suppliers. a weakening or reversal of the general economic recovery in the united states and other countries and regions in which we do business, or the continuation or worsening of economic downturns in other countries and regions, may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. global economic uncertainty continues to exist. a weakening or reversal of the general economic recovery in the united states and other countries and regions in which we do business, or the continuation or worsening of economic downturns in other countries and regions, may adversely impact our net sales, the collection of accounts receivable, funding for working capital needs, expected cash flow generation from current and acquired businesses, and our investments, which may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we finance a portion of our sales through trade credit. credit markets remain tight, and some customers who require financing for their businesses have not been able to obtain necessary financing. a continuation or worsening of these conditions could limit our ability to collect our accounts receivable, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we generally fund a portion of our seasonal working capital needs and obtain funding for other general corporate purposes through short-term borrowings backed by our revolving credit facility and other financing facilities. if any of the banks in these credit and financing facilities are unable to perform on their commitments, such inability could adversely impact our cash flow, liquidity or financial condition, including our ability to obtain funding for working capital needs and other general corporate purposes. although we currently have available credit facilities to fund our current operating needs, we cannot be certain we will be able to replace our existing credit facilities or refinance our existing or future debt when necessary. our cost of borrowing and ability to access the capital markets are affected not only by market conditions, but also by our debt and credit ratings assigned by the major credit rating agencies. downgrades in these ratings will increase our cost of borrowing and could have an adverse effect on our access to the capital markets, including our access to the commercial paper market. an inability to access the capital markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we have goodwill and intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. we periodically evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of our goodwill and intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate such value may not be recoverable. an impairment assessment involves judgment as to assumptions regarding future sales and cash flow and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions. future events and changing market conditions may impact our assumptions and change our estimates of future sales and cash flow, resulting in us incurring substantial impairment charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we hold investments in equity and debt securities in some of our defined benefit pension plans. a decrease in the value of plan assets resulting from a general financial downturn may cause a negative pension plan investment performance, which may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. 5 protracted duration of economic downturns in cyclical segments of the economy may depress the demand for some of our products and adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition. portions of our business involve the sale of paint, coatings and related products to segments of the economy that are cyclical in nature, particularly segments relating to construction, housing, manufacturing and oil production, refining, storage and transportation. our sales to these segments are affected by the levels of discretionary consumer and business spending in these segments. during economic downturns in these segments, the levels of consumer and business discretionary spending may decrease, and the recovery of these segments may lag behind the recovery of the overall economy. this decrease in spending will likely reduce the demand for some of our products and may adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition. throughout 2018, interest rates, including mortgage rates, rose and may continue to rise in 2019 . although interest rates remain low by historical standards, this increase may adversely affect the demand for new residential homes, existing home turnover and new non-residential construction. challenging market conditions are expected to continue for the foreseeable future and may worsen. a worsening in these segments will reduce the demand for some of our products and may adversely impact sales, earnings and cash flow. in the u.s. construction and housing segments, the recent demand for new construction has caused contractors to experience a shortage of skilled workers, resulting in project backlogs and an adverse effect on the growth rate of demand for our products. while we expect to see higher demand for our products as project backlogs are reduced in the future, this labor shortage may adversely impact our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition. increases in the cost of raw materials and energy may adversely affect our earnings or cash flow. we purchase raw materials (including titanium dioxide and petrochemical feedstock sources, such as propylene and ethylene) and energy for use in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products. factors such as political instability, higher tariffs and adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes, and other natural disasters can disrupt raw material and fuel supplies and increase our costs. although raw materials and energy supplies (including oil and natural gas) are generally available from various sources in sufficient quantities, unexpected shortages and increases in the cost of raw materials and energy, or any deterioration in our relationships with or the financial viability of our suppliers, may have an adverse effect on our earnings or cash flow in the event we are unable to offset higher costs in a timely manner by sufficiently decreasing our operating costs or raising the prices of our products. in recent years, some raw material and energy prices have increased, particularly titanium dioxide and petrochemical feedstock sources, such as propylene and ethylene, as well as metal and plastic packaging. the cost of raw materials and energy has in the past experienced, and likely will in the future continue to experience, periods of volatility. although we have an extensive customer base, the loss of any of our largest customers could adversely affect our sales, earnings or cash flow. we have a large and varied customer base due to our extensive distribution network. during 2018 , no individual customer accounted for sales totaling more than ten percent of our sales. however, we have some customers that, individually, purchase a large amount of products from us. although our broad distribution channels help to minimize the impact of the loss of any one customer, the loss of any of these large customers could have an adverse effect on our sales, earnings or cash flow. increased competition may reduce our sales, earnings or cash flow performance. we face substantial competition from many international, national, regional and local competitors of various sizes in the manufacture, distribution and sale of our paint, coatings and related products. some of our competitors are larger than us and have greater financial resources to compete. other competitors are smaller and may be able to offer more specialized products. technology, product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, distribution, service and price are the key competitive factors for our business. competition in any of these areas may reduce our sales and adversely affect our earnings or cash flow by resulting in decreased sales volumes, reduced prices and increased costs of manufacturing, distributing and selling our products. we may not realize the growth opportunities and cost synergies that are anticipated from the acquisition of valspar. the benefits that are expected to result from the acquisition of valspar will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated growth opportunities and additional cost synergies as a result of the acquisition. our success in realizing these growth opportunities and additional cost synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of valspar. there is a significant degree of difficulty and management distraction inherent in the process of integrating an acquisition as sizable as valspar. the process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, our activities. members of our senior management may be required to devote considerable amounts of time to this integration process, which will decrease the time available to manage our company, service existing customers, attract new customers, and 6 develop new products or strategies. if senior management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business could suffer. there can be no assurance we will successfully or cost-effectively integrate valspar. the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. even if we are able to integrate valspar successfully, this integration may not result in the realization of the full benefits of the growth opportunities and additional cost synergies we currently expect from this integration. we also cannot guarantee these benefits will be achieved within anticipated time frames or at all. for example, we may not be able to eliminate all duplicative costs, and we may incur substantial, unanticipated expenses in connection with the valspar integration. while we expect certain expenses will be incurred to achieve cost synergies, such expenses are difficult to estimate accurately, and may exceed current estimates. accordingly, the benefits from the acquisition may be offset by costs incurred to, or delays in, integrating the businesses. we require a significant amount of cash to service the substantial amount of debt we have outstanding. our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. we also depend on the business of our subsidiaries to satisfy our cash needs. if we cannot generate the required cash, we may not be able to make the necessary payments required under our indebtedness. at december 31, 2018 , we had total debt of approximately $9.3 billion , which is a decrease of $1.2 billion since december 31, 2017 and includes indebtedness incurred to complete the valspar acquisition. we have the ability under our existing credit facilities to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to make payments on our debt, fund our other liquidity needs, and make planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. our historical financial results have been, and we anticipate our future financial results will be, subject to fluctuations. our ability to generate cash, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. we cannot guarantee our business will generate sufficient cash flow from our operations or future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to make payments of our debt, fund other liquidity needs and make planned capital expenditures. the degree to which we are currently leveraged could have important consequences for shareholders. for example, it could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to enable us to react to changes in our business; or place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have less debt. additionally, any failure to comply with covenants in the instruments governing our debt could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, would have a material adverse effect on us. a significant portion of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. as a result, our ability to generate sufficient cash flow for our needs is dependent to some extent on the earnings of our subsidiaries and the payment of those earnings to us in the form of dividends, loans or advances and through repayment of loans or advances from us. our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities. our subsidiaries have no obligation to pay any amounts due on our debt or to provide us with funds to meet our cash flow needs, whether in the form of dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. in addition, any payment of dividends, loans or advances by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions. payments to us by our subsidiaries will also be contingent upon our subsidiaries' earnings and business considerations. our right to receive any assets of any of our subsidiaries upon their liquidation or reorganization will be effectively subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary's creditors, including trade creditors. in addition, even if we are a creditor of any of our subsidiaries, our rights as a creditor would be subordinate to any security interest in the assets of our subsidiaries and any indebtedness of our subsidiaries senior to that held by us. finally, changes in the laws of foreign jurisdictions in which we operate may adversely affect the ability of some of our foreign subsidiaries to repatriate funds to us. our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition may be negatively impacted if we do not successfully integrate future acquisitions into our existing operations and if the performance of the businesses we acquire do not meet our expectations. we have historically made strategic acquisitions of businesses in the paint and coatings industry and will likely acquire additional businesses in the future as part of our long-term growth strategy. the success of future acquisitions depends in large part on our ability to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired companies and manage challenges that may arise as 7 a result of the acquisitions, particularly when the acquired businesses operate in new or foreign markets. in the event we do not successfully integrate such future acquisitions into our existing operations so as to realize the expected return on our investment, our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition could be adversely affected. risks and uncertainties associated with our expansion into and our operations in asia, europe, south america and other foreign markets could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. net external sales of our consolidated foreign subsidiaries totaled approximately 23.0% , 19.8% and 14.5% of our total consolidated net sales in 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , respectively. sales outside of the united states make up a significant part of our current business and future strategic plans. our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition could be adversely affected by a variety of domestic and international factors, including general economic conditions, political instability, inflation rates, recessions, tariffs, foreign currency exchange rates, foreign currency exchange controls, interest rates, foreign investment and repatriation restrictions, legal and regulatory constraints, civil unrest, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and other external economic and political factors. our inability to successfully manage the risks and uncertainties relating to these factors could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. in many foreign countries, it is acceptable to engage in certain business practices we are prohibited from engaging in because of regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and the uk bribery act. recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both u.s. and non-u.s. regulators, and an increase in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. although we have internal control policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these regulations, there can be no assurance our policies and procedures will prevent a violation of these regulations. any violation could cause an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. policy changes affecting international trade could adversely impact the demand for our products and our competitive position. due to the international scope of our operations, changes in government policies on foreign trade and investment may affect the demand for our products and services, impact the competitive position of our products or prevent us from being able to sell products in certain countries. our business benefits from free trade agreements, such as the north american free trade agreement and successor agreements, which may include the united states-mexico-canada agreement, and efforts to withdraw from, or substantially modify such agreements, in addition to the implementation of more restrictive trade policies, such as more detailed inspections, higher tariffs, import or export licensing requirements, exchange controls or new barriers to entry, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flow and that of our customers, vendors and suppliers. additionally, the results of the united kingdom's referendum on european union membership, advising for the exit from the european union, has caused and may continue to cause significant volatility in global stock markets, currency exchange rate fluctuations and global economic uncertainty. although it is unknown what the terms of the united kingdom's future relationship with the european union will be, it is possible there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the united kingdom and the european union and increased regulatory complexities. any of these factors could adversely impact customer demand, our relationships with customers and suppliers and our results of operations. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. because of our international operations, we are exposed to risk associated with interest rates and value changes in foreign currencies, which may adversely affect our business. historically, our reported net sales, earnings, cash flow and financial condition have been subjected to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. our primary exchange rate exposure is with the euro, the chinese yuan, the brazilian real, the canadian dollar, the british pound, the mexican peso and the australian dollar, each against the u.s. dollar. while we actively manage the exposure of our foreign currency risk as part of our overall financial risk management policy, we believe we may experience losses from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, and such losses could adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we are subject to a wide variety of complex domestic and foreign laws, rules and regulations, for which compliance could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. we are subject to a wide variety of complex domestic and foreign laws, rules and regulations, and legal compliance risks, including securities laws, tax laws, employment and pension-related laws, competition laws, u.s. and foreign export and trading laws, data privacy and security laws, and laws governing improper business practices. we are affected by new laws and 8 regulations, and changes to existing laws and regulations, including interpretations by courts and regulators. from time to time, our company, our operations and the industries in which we operate are being reviewed or investigated by regulators, which could lead to enforcement actions or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages. although we believe we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs to mitigate these risks, the global and diverse nature of our operations means compliance risks will continue to exist. investigations, examinations and other proceedings, the nature and outcome of which cannot be predicted, will likely arise from time to time. these investigations, examinations and other proceedings could subject us to significant liability and require us to take significant accruals or pay significant settlements, fines and penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. we are subject to tax laws and regulations in the united states and multiple foreign jurisdictions. we are affected by changes in tax laws and regulations, as well as changes in related interpretations and other tax guidance. in the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to examinations and investigations by various tax authorities and other regulators. in addition to existing examinations and investigations, there could be additional examinations and investigations in the future, and existing examinations and investigations could be expanded. on december 22, 2017, u.s. tax reform legislation known as the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ) was signed into law. the tax act made substantial changes to then-current u.s. tax law, including a reduction in the corporate tax rate, a limitation on deductibility of interest expense, a limitation on the use of net operating losses to offset future taxable income, the allowance of immediate expensing of capital expenditures, deemed repatriation of foreign earnings and significant changes to the taxation of foreign earnings going forward. the tax act contains numerous, complex provisions impacting u.s. multinational companies, and we continue to review and assess the legislative language and guidance promulgated by regulators to determine the tax act's full impact on us. the full extent of the impact remains uncertain at this time, and our current interpretations of, and assumptions regarding, the tax act are subject to additional regulatory or administrative developments, including any regulations or additional guidance promulgated by the u.s. internal revenue service or other regulators. further, we can provide no assurance our current interpretations of, and assumptions regarding, the tax act and any related regulations or guidance will not be reviewed or investigated by regulators in the future. as a result, the tax act, including any regulations or other guidance promulgated by the u.s. internal revenue service or other regulators, and other tax laws could have significant effects on us, some of which could materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. for non-income tax risks, we estimate material loss contingencies and accrue for such loss contingencies as required by u.s. generally accepted accounting principles based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency. in the event the loss contingency is ultimately determined to be significantly higher than currently accrued, the recording of the additional liability may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such additional liability is accrued. in those cases where no accrual is recorded because it is not probable a liability has been incurred and cannot be reasonably estimated, any potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued or paid. for income tax risks, we recognize tax benefits based on our assessment that a tax benefit has a greater than 50% likelihood of being sustained upon ultimate settlement with the applicable taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant facts. for those income tax positions where we determine there is not a greater than 50% likelihood such tax benefits will be sustained, we do not recognize a tax benefit in our financial statements. subsequent events may cause us to change our assessment of the likelihood of sustaining a previously-recognized benefit which could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial position for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued or paid. we discuss risks and uncertainties with regard to taxes in more detail in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 71 through 73 of our 2018 annual report. adverse weather conditions and natural disasters may temporarily reduce the demand for some of our products and could have a negative effect on our sales, earnings or cash flow. our business is seasonal in nature, with the second and third quarters typically generating a higher proportion of sales and earnings than other quarters. from time to time, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters have had an adverse effect on our sales of paint, coatings and related products. for example, during 2018 the impact of hurricanes michael and florence, on our operations in florida, the carolinas and neighboring areas, as well as the wildfires in california, resulted in a temporary shutdown of some of our company-operated paint stores, manufacturing facilities and/or distribution centers in the affected regions, resulting in reduced revenues. in addition, unusually cold and rainy weather could have an adverse effect on sales of our exterior paint products. an adverse effect on sales may cause a reduction in our earnings or cash flow. 9 inability to protect or enforce our material trademarks and other intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect on our business. we have numerous patents, trade secrets, trademarks, trade names and know-how that are valuable to our business. despite our efforts to protect such intellectual property and other proprietary information from unauthorized use or disclosure, third parties may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our trademarks or such other intellectual property and information without our authorization. although we rely on the patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws of the united states and other countries to protect our intellectual property rights, the laws of some countries may not protect such rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, the failure of foreign countries to have laws to protect our intellectual property rights, or an inability to effectively enforce such rights in foreign countries could have an adverse effect on our business. security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure could interfere with our operations, compromise our information and the information of our customers and suppliers and severely harm our business. as part of our business, we collect, process, and retain sensitive and confidential personal information about our customers, employees and suppliers. despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of the retailers, dealers, licensees and other third-party suppliers and vendors with which we do business, may be vulnerable to security breaches, cyber attacks, acts of vandalism or misconduct, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer, employee, supplier or company information, whether caused by us, an unknown third party, or the retailers, dealers, licensees or other third-party suppliers and vendors with which we do business, could result in losses, severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. as cyber security threats evolve in sophistication and become more prevalent in numerous industries worldwide, we continue to increase our sensitivity and attention to these threats, seek additional investments and resources to address these threats and enhance the security of our facilities and systems and strengthen our controls and procedures implemented to monitor and mitigate these threats. the domestic and international regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and privacy is increasingly rigorous and complex, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business. compliance with these requirements, including the european union's general data protection regulation and other domestic and international regulations, could result in additional costs and changes to our business practices. moreover, we rely heavily on computer systems to manage and operate our business, record and process transactions, and manage, support and communicate with our employees, customers, suppliers and other vendors. computer systems are important to production planning, finance, company operations and customer service, among other business-critical processes. despite efforts to prevent disruptions to our computer systems, our systems may be affected by damage or interruption from, among other causes, power outages, system failures, computer viruses and other intrusions, including cyber attacks. computer hardware and storage equipment that is integral to efficient operations, such as email, telephone and other functionality, is concentrated in certain physical locations in the various continents in which we operate. additionally, we rely on software applications, enterprise cloud storage systems and cloud computing services provided by third-party vendors, and our business may be adversely affected by service disruptions in or security breaches to such third-party systems. we are required to comply with numerous complex and increasingly stringent domestic and foreign health, safety and environmental laws and regulations, the cost of which is likely to increase and may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. our operations are subject to various domestic and foreign health, safety and environmental laws and regulations. these laws and regulations not only govern our current operations and products, but also impose potential liability on us for our past operations. we expect health, safety and environmental laws and regulations to impose increasingly stringent requirements upon our industry and us in the future. our costs to comply with these laws and regulations may increase as these requirements become more stringent in the future, and these increased costs may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. we are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of our currently and formerly owned sites, as well as a number of third-party sites, for which our ultimate liability may exceed the current amount we have accrued. we are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of our currently and formerly owned sites and a number of third-party sites. we accrue for estimated costs of investigation and remediation activities at these sites for which commitments or clean-up plans have been developed and when such costs can be reasonably estimated based on industry standards and professional judgment. these estimated costs are based on currently available facts regarding each site. 10 we continuously assess our potential liability for investigation and remediation activities and adjust our environmental-related accruals as information becomes available upon which more accurate costs can be reasonably estimated. due to the uncertainties surrounding environmental investigation and remediation activities, our liability may result in costs that are significantly higher than currently accrued and may have an adverse effect on our earnings. we discuss these risks and uncertainties in more detail on page 23 of our 2018 annual report under the caption environmental matters, page 28 of our 2018 annual report under the caption environmental-related liabilities and in note 9 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 62 through 63 of our 2018 annual report. the nature, cost, quantity and outcome of pending and future litigation, such as litigation arising from the historical manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paint, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition. in the course of our business, we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits, including, but not limited to, litigation relating to product liability and warranty, personal injury, environmental, intellectual property, commercial, contractual and antitrust claims that are inherently subject to many uncertainties regarding the possibility of a loss to us. these uncertainties will ultimately be resolved when one or more future events occur or fail to occur confirming the incurrence of a liability or the reduction of a liability. in accordance with the contingencies topic of the asc, we accrue for these contingencies by a charge to income when it is both probable that one or more future events will occur confirming the fact of a loss and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. in the event a loss contingency is ultimately determined to be significantly higher than currently accrued, the recording of the additional liability may result in a material impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such additional liability is accrued. in those cases where no accrual is recorded because it is not probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of any such loss cannot be reasonably estimated, any potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us may result in a material impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued. our past operations included the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paints. along with other companies, we are and have been a defendant in a number of legal proceedings, including individual personal injury actions, purported class actions and actions brought by various counties, cities, school districts and other government-related entities, arising from the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paints. the plaintiffs' claims have been based upon various legal theories, including negligence, strict liability, breach of warranty, negligent misrepresentations and omissions, fraudulent misrepresentations and omissions, concert of action, civil conspiracy, violations of unfair trade practice and consumer protection laws, enterprise liability, market share liability, public nuisance, unjust enrichment and other theories. the plaintiffs seek various damages and relief, including personal injury and property damage, costs relating to the detection and abatement of lead-based paint from buildings, costs associated with a public education campaign, medical monitoring costs and others. we have also been a defendant in legal proceedings arising from the manufacture and sale of non-lead-based paints that seek recovery based upon various legal theories, including the failure to adequately warn of potential exposure to lead during surface preparation when using non-lead-based paint on surfaces previously painted with lead-based paint. we believe the litigation brought to date is without merit or subject to meritorious defenses and are vigorously defending such litigation. we have not settled any material lead pigment or lead-based paint litigation. we expect additional lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation may be filed against us in the future asserting similar or different legal theories and seeking similar or different types of damages and relief. notwithstanding our views on the merits, litigation is inherently subject to many uncertainties, and we ultimately may not prevail. adverse court rulings, such as the court's decision in the santa clara county, california proceeding, the jury verdict against us and other defendants in the state of rhode island action and the wisconsin state supreme court's determination that wisconsin's risk contribution theory may apply in the lead pigment litigation, or determinations of liability, among other factors, could affect the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation against us and encourage an increase in the number and nature of future claims and proceedings. in addition, from time to time, various legislation and administrative regulations have been enacted, promulgated or proposed to impose obligations on present and former manufacturers of lead pigments and lead-based paints respecting asserted health concerns associated with such products or to overturn the effect of court decisions in which we and other manufacturers have been successful. due to the uncertainties involved, management is unable to predict the outcome of the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, the number or nature of possible future claims and proceedings, or the effect any legislation and/or administrative regulations may have on the litigation or against us. in addition, management cannot reasonably determine the scope or amount of the potential costs and liabilities related to such litigation, or resulting from any such legislation and regulations. except with respect to the litigation in california, we have not accrued any amounts for such litigation because we do not believe it is probable that a loss has occurred, and we believe it is not possible to estimate the range of potential losses as there is no substantive information upon which an estimate could be based. in addition, any potential liability that may result from any changes to legislation and regulations cannot reasonably be estimated. in the event any significant liability is determined to be attributable to us relating to such litigation, or any such liability is higher than any amount currently accrued for such litigation, 11 the recording of the liability, or additional liability, as applicable, may result in a material impact on net income for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued. additionally, due to the uncertainties associated with the amount of any such liability and/or the nature of any other remedy which may be imposed in such litigation, any potential liability determined to be attributable to us arising out of such litigation may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we discuss the risks and uncertainties related to litigation, including the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, in more detail in note 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 63 through 67 of our 2018 annual report. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 17 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk associated with interest rates, foreign currency and commodity fluctuations. we occasionally utilize derivative instruments as part of our overall financial risk management policy, but do not use derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes. the company entered into foreign currency forward currency exchange contracts during 2018 to hedge against value changes in foreign currency. there were no material contracts outstanding at december 31, 2018 . foreign currency forward contracts are described in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on page 71 of our 2018 annual report. we believe we may experience continuing losses from foreign currency fluctuations. however, we do not expect currency translation, transaction or hedging contract losses to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the interest rate lock agreements entered into in 2016 were settled during 2017. see note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 61 through 62 of our 2018 annual report. 17risk factors 4 risk factors the risks described below and in other documents we file from time to time with the securities and exchange commission could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. adverse changes in general business and economic conditions in the united states and worldwide may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. our business is sensitive to global and regional business and economic conditions. adverse changes in such conditions in the united states and worldwide may reduce the demand for some of our products and impair the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us, each of which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. higher inflation rates, interest rates, tax rates and unemployment rates, higher labor and healthcare costs, recessions, changing governmental policies, laws and regulations, business disruptions due to cybersecurity incidents, terrorist activity, armed conflict, war, public health crises, fires or other natural disasters, and other economic factors could also adversely affect demand for some of our products, availability and cost of raw materials and our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition and that of our customers, vendors and suppliers. 4 table of contents a weakening or reversal of the general economic recovery in the united states and other countries and regions in which we do business, or the continuation or worsening of economic downturns in other countries and regions, may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. global economic uncertainty continues to exist. a weakening or reversal of the general economic recovery in the united states and other countries and regions in which we do business, or the continuation or worsening of economic downturns in other countries and regions, may adversely impact our net sales, the collection of accounts receivable, funding for working capital needs, expected cash flow generation from current and acquired businesses, and our investments, which may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we finance a portion of our sales through trade credit. credit markets remain tight, and some customers who require financing for their businesses have not been able to obtain necessary financing. a continuation or worsening of these conditions could limit our ability to collect our accounts receivable, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we generally fund a portion of our seasonal working capital needs and obtain funding for other general corporate purposes through short-term borrowings backed by our revolving credit facility and other financing facilities. if any of the banks in these credit and financing facilities are unable to perform on their commitments, such inability could adversely impact our cash flow, liquidity or financial condition, including our ability to obtain funding for working capital needs and other general corporate purposes. although we currently have available credit facilities to fund our current operating needs, we cannot be certain we will be able to replace our existing credit facilities or refinance our existing or future debt when necessary. our cost of borrowing and ability to access the capital markets are affected not only by market conditions, but also by our debt and credit ratings assigned by the major credit rating agencies. downgrades in these ratings will increase our cost of borrowing and could have an adverse effect on our access to the capital markets, including our access to the commercial paper market. an inability to access the capital markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we have goodwill and intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. we periodically evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of our goodwill and intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate such value may not be recoverable. an impairment assessment involves judgment as to assumptions regarding future sales and cash flow and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions. future events and changing market conditions may impact our assumptions and change our estimates of future sales and cash flow, resulting in us incurring substantial impairment charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we hold investments in equity and debt securities in some of our defined benefit pension plans. a decrease in the value of plan assets resulting from a general financial downturn may cause a negative pension plan investment performance, which may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. protracted duration of economic downturns in cyclical segments of the economy may depress the demand for some of our products and adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition. portions of our business involve the sale of paint, coatings and related products to segments of the economy that are cyclical in nature, particularly segments relating to construction, housing, manufacturing and oil production, refining, storage and transportation. our sales to these segments are affected by the levels of discretionary consumer and business spending in these segments. during economic downturns in these segments, the levels of consumer and business discretionary spending may decrease, and the recovery of these segments may lag behind the recovery of the overall economy. this decrease in spending will likely reduce the demand for some of our products and may adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition. although interest rates remain low by historical standards, any increase may adversely affect the demand for new residential homes, existing home turnover and new non-residential construction. a worsening in these segments will reduce the demand for some of our products and may adversely impact sales, earnings and cash flow. in the u.s. construction and housing segments, the recent demand for new construction has caused contractors to experience a shortage of skilled workers, resulting in project backlogs and an adverse effect on the growth rate of demand for our products. while we expect to see higher demand for our products as project backlogs are reduced in the future, this labor shortage may adversely impact our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition. increases in the cost of raw materials and energy may adversely affect our earnings or cash flow. we purchase raw materials (including titanium dioxide and petrochemical feedstock sources, such as propylene and ethylene) and energy for use in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products. factors such as political instability, higher tariffs and adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes, and other natural disasters can disrupt raw material and fuel supplies and increase our costs. in addition, environmental and social regulations, including regulations related to climate change, may negatively impact us or our suppliers in terms of availability and cost of raw materials, as well as sources and supply of energy. although raw materials and energy supplies (including oil and natural gas) are generally available from various sources in sufficient quantities, unexpected 5 table of contents shortages and increases in the cost of raw materials and energy, or any deterioration in our relationships with or the financial viability of our suppliers, may have an adverse effect on our earnings or cash flow in the event we are unable to offset higher costs in a timely manner by sufficiently decreasing our operating costs or raising the prices of our products. in recent years, some raw material and energy prices have increased, particularly titanium dioxide and petrochemical feedstock sources, such as propylene and ethylene, as well as metal and plastic packaging. the cost of raw materials and energy has in the past experienced, and likely will in the future continue to experience, periods of volatility. although we have an extensive customer base, the loss of any of our largest customers could adversely affect our sales, earnings or cash flow. we have a large and varied customer base due to our extensive distribution network. during 2019 , no individual customer accounted for sales totaling more than ten percent of our sales. however, we have some customers that, individually, purchase a large amount of products from us. although our broad distribution channels help to minimize the impact of the loss of any one customer, the loss of any of these large customers could have an adverse effect on our sales, earnings or cash flow. increased competition may reduce our sales, earnings or cash flow performance. we face substantial competition from many international, national, regional and local competitors of various sizes in the manufacture, distribution and sale of our paint, coatings and related products. some of our competitors are larger than us and have greater financial resources to compete. other competitors are smaller and may be able to offer more specialized products. technology, product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, distribution, service and price are the key competitive factors for our business. competition in any of these areas may reduce our sales and adversely affect our earnings or cash flow by resulting in decreased sales volumes, reduced prices and increased costs of manufacturing, distributing and selling our products. we require a significant amount of cash to service the substantial amount of debt we have outstanding. our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. we also depend on the business of our subsidiaries to satisfy our cash needs. if we cannot generate the required cash, we may not be able to make the necessary payments required under our indebtedness. at december 31, 2019 , we had total debt of approximately $8.7 billion , which is a decrease of $658.5 million since december 31, 2018 . we have the ability under our existing credit facilities to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to make payments on our debt, fund our other liquidity needs, and make planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. our historical financial results have been, and we anticipate our future financial results will be, subject to fluctuations. our ability to generate cash, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. we cannot guarantee our business will generate sufficient cash flow from our operations or future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to make payments of our debt, fund other liquidity needs and make planned capital expenditures. the degree to which we are currently leveraged could have important consequences for shareholders. for example, it could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of debt service, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; increase our vulnerability to adverse economic or industry conditions; limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to enable us to react to changes in our business; or place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses in our industry that have less debt. additionally, any failure to comply with covenants in the instruments governing our debt could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, would have a material adverse effect on us. a significant portion of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. as a result, our ability to generate sufficient cash flow for our needs is dependent to some extent on the earnings of our subsidiaries and the payment of those earnings to us in the form of dividends, loans or advances and through repayment of loans or advances from us. our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities. our subsidiaries have no obligation to pay any amounts due on our debt or to provide us with funds to meet our cash flow needs, whether in the form of dividends, distributions, loans or other payments. in addition, any payment of dividends, loans or advances by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions. payments to us by our subsidiaries will also be contingent upon our subsidiaries' earnings and business considerations. our right to receive any assets of any of our subsidiaries upon their liquidation or reorganization will be effectively subordinated to the claims of that subsidiary's creditors, including trade creditors. in addition, even if we are a creditor of any of our subsidiaries, our rights as a creditor would be subordinate to any security interest in the assets of our subsidiaries and any indebtedness of our subsidiaries senior to that held by us. finally, changes in the laws of foreign jurisdictions in which we operate may adversely affect the ability of some of our foreign subsidiaries to repatriate funds to us. 6 table of contents our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition may be negatively impacted if we do not successfully integrate future acquisitions into our existing operations and if the performance of the businesses we acquire do not meet our expectations. we have historically made strategic acquisitions of businesses in the paint and coatings industry and will likely acquire additional businesses in the future as part of our long-term growth strategy. the success of future acquisitions depends in large part on our ability to integrate the operations and personnel of the acquired companies and manage challenges that may arise as a result of the acquisitions, particularly when the acquired businesses operate in new or foreign markets. in the event we do not successfully integrate such future acquisitions into our existing operations so as to realize the expected return on our investment, our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition could be adversely affected. risks and uncertainties associated with our expansion into and our operations in asia, europe, south america and other foreign markets could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. net external sales of our consolidated foreign subsidiaries totaled approximately 20.6% , 23.0% and 19.8% of our total consolidated net sales in 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively. sales outside of the united states make up a significant part of our current business and future strategic plans. our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition could be adversely affected by a variety of domestic and international factors, including general economic conditions, political instability, inflation rates, recessions, tariffs, foreign currency exchange rates, foreign currency exchange controls, interest rates, foreign investment and repatriation restrictions, legal and regulatory constraints, civil unrest, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and other external economic and political factors. in addition, public health crises (including viral outbreaks, such as the coronavirus) in foreign jurisdictions may temporarily reduce the demand for some of our products and adversely affect the availability and cost of raw materials. our inability to successfully manage the risks and uncertainties relating to any of these factors could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. in many foreign countries, it is acceptable to engage in certain business practices we are prohibited from engaging in because of regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and the uk bribery act. recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity, with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both u.s. and non-u.s. regulators, and an increase in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. although we have internal control policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these regulations, there can be no assurance our policies and procedures will prevent a violation of these regulations. any violation could cause an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. policy changes affecting international trade could adversely impact the demand for our products and our competitive position. due to the international scope of our operations, changes in government policies on foreign trade and investment may affect the demand for our products and services, impact the competitive position of our products or prevent us from being able to sell products in certain countries. our business benefits from free trade agreements, which may include the united states-mexico-canada agreement, and efforts to withdraw from, or substantially modify such agreements, in addition to the implementation of more restrictive trade policies, such as more detailed inspections, higher tariffs, import or export licensing requirements, exchange controls or new barriers to entry, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flow and that of our customers, vendors and suppliers. additionally, the results of the united kingdom's referendum on european union membership, which resulted in the united kingdom's exit from the european union on january 31, 2020, has caused and may continue to cause significant volatility in global stock markets, currency exchange rate fluctuations and global economic uncertainty. although it is unknown what the terms of the united kingdom's future relationship with the european union will be, it is possible there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the united kingdom and the european union and increased regulatory complexities. any of these factors could adversely impact customer demand, our relationships with customers and suppliers and our results of operations. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. because of our international operations, we are exposed to risk associated with interest rates and value changes in foreign currencies, which may adversely affect our business. historically, our reported net sales, earnings, cash flow and financial condition have been subjected to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. our primary exchange rate exposure is with the euro, the chinese yuan, the brazilian real, the canadian dollar, the british pound, the mexican peso, the australian dollar and the argentine peso, each against the u.s. dollar. while we actively manage the exposure of our foreign currency risk as part of our overall financial risk management policy, we believe we may experience losses from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, and such losses could adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we are subject to a wide variety of complex domestic and foreign laws, rules and regulations, for which compliance could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. we are subject to a wide variety of complex domestic and foreign laws, rules and regulations, and legal compliance risks, including securities laws, tax laws, employment and pension-related laws, competition laws, u.s. and foreign export and trading laws, data 7 table of contents privacy and security laws, and laws governing improper business practices. we are affected by new laws and regulations, and changes to existing laws and regulations, including interpretations by courts and regulators. from time to time, our company, our operations and the industries in which we operate are being reviewed or investigated by regulators, which could lead to enforcement actions or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages. although we believe we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs to mitigate these risks, the global and diverse nature of our operations means compliance risks will continue to exist. investigations, examinations and other proceedings, the nature and outcome of which cannot be predicted, will likely arise from time to time. these investigations, examinations and other proceedings could subject us to significant liability and require us to take significant accruals or pay significant settlements, fines and penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. we are subject to tax laws and regulations in the united states and multiple foreign jurisdictions. we are affected by changes in tax laws and regulations, as well as changes in related interpretations and other tax guidance. in the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to examinations and investigations by various tax authorities and other regulators. in addition to existing examinations and investigations, there could be additional examinations and investigations in the future, and existing examinations and investigations could be expanded. for non-income tax risks, we estimate material loss contingencies and accrue for such loss contingencies as required by u.s. generally accepted accounting principles based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency. in the event the loss contingency is ultimately determined to be significantly higher than currently accrued, the recording of the additional liability may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such additional liability is accrued. in those cases where no accrual is recorded because it is not probable a liability has been incurred and cannot be reasonably estimated, any potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued or paid. for income tax risks, we recognize tax benefits based on our assessment that a tax benefit has a greater than 50% likelihood of being sustained upon ultimate settlement with the applicable taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant facts. for those income tax positions where we determine there is not a greater than 50% likelihood such tax benefits will be sustained, we do not recognize a tax benefit in our financial statements. subsequent events may cause us to change our assessment of the likelihood of sustaining a previously-recognized benefit which could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial position for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued or paid. we discuss risks and uncertainties with regard to taxes in more detail in note 19 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. adverse weather conditions or impacts of climate change and natural disasters may temporarily reduce the demand for some of our products and could have a negative effect on our sales, earnings or cash flow. our business is seasonal in nature, with the second and third quarters typically generating a higher proportion of sales and earnings than other quarters. from time to time, adverse weather conditions or impacts of climate change and natural disasters have had or may have an adverse effect on our sales of paint, coatings and related products. in addition, unusually cold and rainy weather could have an adverse effect on sales of our exterior paint products. an adverse effect on sales may cause a reduction in our earnings or cash flow. inability to protect or enforce our material trademarks and other intellectual property rights could have an adverse effect on our business. we have numerous patents, trade secrets, trademarks, trade names and know-how that are valuable to our business. despite our efforts to protect such intellectual property and other proprietary information from unauthorized use or disclosure, third parties may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our trademarks or such other intellectual property and information without our authorization. although we rely on the patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws of the united states and other countries to protect our intellectual property rights, the laws of some countries may not protect such rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, the failure of foreign countries to have laws to protect our intellectual property rights, or an inability to effectively enforce such rights in foreign countries could have an adverse effect on our business. security breaches and other disruptions to our information technology infrastructure could interfere with our operations, compromise our information and the information of our customers and suppliers and severely harm our business. as part of our business, we collect, process, and retain sensitive and confidential personal information about our customers, employees and suppliers. despite the security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems, and those of the retailers, dealers, licensees and other third-party suppliers and vendors with which we do business, may be vulnerable to security breaches, 8 table of contents cyber attacks, acts of vandalism or misconduct, computer viruses, ransomware, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events or intrusions. any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer, employee, supplier or company information, whether caused by us, an unknown third party, or the retailers, dealers, licensees or other third-party suppliers and vendors with which we do business, could result in losses, severely damage our reputation, expose us to the risks of litigation and liability, disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. as cyber security threats evolve in sophistication and become more prevalent in numerous industries worldwide, we continue to increase our sensitivity and attention to these threats, seek additional investments and resources to address these threats and enhance the security of our facilities and systems and strengthen our controls and procedures implemented to monitor and mitigate these threats. the domestic and international regulatory environment related to information security, data collection and privacy is increasingly rigorous and complex, with new and constantly changing requirements applicable to our business. compliance with these requirements, including the european union's general data protection regulation and other domestic and international regulations, could result in additional costs and changes to our business practices. moreover, we rely heavily on computer systems to manage and operate our business, record and process transactions, and manage, support and communicate with our employees, customers, suppliers and other vendors. computer systems are important to production planning, manufacturing, finance, company operations and customer service, among other business-critical processes. despite efforts to prevent disruptions to our computer systems, our systems may be affected by damage or interruption from, among other causes, power outages, system failures, computer viruses and other intrusions, including ransomware and other cyber attacks. computer hardware and storage equipment that is integral to efficient operations, such as email, telephone and other functionality, is concentrated in certain physical locations in the various continents in which we operate. additionally, we rely on software applications, enterprise cloud storage systems and cloud computing services provided by third-party vendors. if these third-party vendors, as well as our suppliers and other vendors, experience security breaches, cyber attacks, computer viruses, ransomware or other similar events or intrusions, our business may be adversely affected and such events or intrusions may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we are required to comply with numerous complex and increasingly stringent domestic and foreign health, safety and environmental laws and regulations, the cost of which is likely to increase and may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. our operations are subject to various domestic and foreign health, safety and environmental laws and regulations, including laws and regulations related to climate change. these laws and regulations not only govern our current operations and products, but also impose potential liability on us for our past operations. we expect health, safety and environmental laws and regulations to impose increasingly stringent requirements upon our industry and us in the future. our costs to comply with these laws and regulations may increase as these requirements become more stringent in the future, and these increased costs may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. we are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of our currently and formerly owned sites, as well as a number of third-party sites, for which our ultimate liability may exceed the current amount we have accrued. we are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of our currently and formerly owned sites and a number of third-party sites. we accrue for estimated costs of investigation and remediation activities at these sites for which commitments or clean-up plans have been developed and when such costs can be reasonably estimated based on industry standards and professional judgment. these estimated costs are based on currently available facts regarding each site. we continuously assess our potential liability for investigation and remediation activities and adjust our environmental-related accruals as information becomes available upon which more accurate costs can be reasonably estimated. due to the uncertainties surrounding environmental investigation and remediation activities, our liability may result in costs that are significantly higher than currently accrued and may have an adverse effect on our earnings. we discuss these risks and uncertainties in more detail in the "environmental matters" and "environmental-related liabilities" sections in item 7 and in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. the nature, cost, quantity and outcome of pending and future litigation, such as litigation arising from the historical manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paint, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition. in the course of our business, we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits, including, but not limited to, litigation relating to product liability and warranty, personal injury, environmental, intellectual property, commercial, contractual and antitrust claims that are inherently subject to many uncertainties regarding the possibility of a loss to us. these uncertainties will ultimately be resolved when one or more future events occur or fail to occur confirming the incurrence of a liability or the reduction of a liability. in accordance with the contingencies topic of the asc, we accrue for these contingencies by a charge to income when it is both probable that one or more future events will occur confirming the fact of a loss and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. in the event a loss contingency is ultimately determined to be significantly higher than currently accrued, the recording 9 table of contents of the additional liability may result in a material impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such additional liability is accrued. in those cases where no accrual is recorded because it is not probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of any such loss cannot be reasonably estimated, any potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us may result in a material impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued. our past operations included the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paints. along with other companies, we are and have been a defendant in a number of legal proceedings, including individual personal injury actions, purported class actions and actions brought by various counties, cities, school districts and other government-related entities, arising from the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paints. the plaintiffs' claims have been based upon various legal theories, including negligence, strict liability, breach of warranty, negligent misrepresentations and omissions, fraudulent misrepresentations and omissions, concert of action, civil conspiracy, violations of unfair trade practice and consumer protection laws, enterprise liability, market share liability, public nuisance, unjust enrichment and other theories. the plaintiffs seek various damages and relief, including personal injury and property damage, costs relating to the detection and abatement of lead-based paint from buildings, costs associated with a public education campaign, medical monitoring costs and others. we have also been a defendant in legal proceedings arising from the manufacture and sale of non-lead-based paints that seek recovery based upon various legal theories, including the failure to adequately warn of potential exposure to lead during surface preparation when using non-lead-based paint on surfaces previously painted with lead-based paint. we believe the litigation brought to date is without merit or subject to meritorious defenses and are vigorously defending such litigation. we have not settled any material lead pigment or lead-based paint litigation. we expect additional lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation may be filed against us in the future asserting similar or different legal theories and seeking similar or different types of damages and relief. notwithstanding our views on the merits, litigation is inherently subject to many uncertainties, and we ultimately may not prevail. adverse court rulings or determinations of liability, among other factors, could affect the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation against us and encourage an increase in the number and nature of future claims and proceedings. in addition, from time to time, various legislation and administrative regulations have been enacted, promulgated or proposed to impose obligations on present and former manufacturers of lead pigments and lead-based paints respecting asserted health concerns associated with such products or to overturn the effect of court decisions in which we and other manufacturers have been successful. due to the uncertainties involved, management is unable to predict the outcome of the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, the number or nature of possible future claims and proceedings, or the effect any legislation and/or administrative regulations may have on the litigation or against us. in addition, management cannot reasonably determine the scope or amount of the potential costs and liabilities related to such litigation, or resulting from any such legislation and regulations. except with respect to the litigation in california, we have not accrued any amounts for such litigation because we do not believe it is probable that a loss has occurred, and we believe it is not possible to estimate the range of potential losses as there is no substantive information upon which an estimate could be based. in addition, any potential liability that may result from any changes to legislation and regulations cannot reasonably be estimated. in the event any significant liability is determined to be attributable to us relating to such litigation, or any such liability is higher than any amount currently accrued for such litigation, the recording of the liability, or additional liability, as applicable, may result in a material impact on net income for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued. additionally, due to the uncertainties associated with the amount of any such liability and/or the nature of any other remedy which may be imposed in such litigation, any potential liability determined to be attributable to us arising out of such litigation may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we discuss the risks and uncertainties related to litigation, including the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, in more detail in note 11 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk associated with interest rates, foreign currency and commodity fluctuations. we occasionally utilize derivative instruments as part of our overall financial risk management policy, but do not use derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes. in 2019, the company entered into a u.s. dollar to euro cross currency swap contract to hedge the company's net investment in its european operations. this contract has been designated as a net investment hedge and will mature on january 15, 2022. see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements inrisk factors 6 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 16risk factors 6 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 17quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk the company is exposed to market risk through various financial instruments, including fixed rate debt instruments. the company does not believe that any potential loss related to these financial instruments will have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk the company is exposed to market risk associated with interest rates and foreign currency exposure. the company utilizes derivative instruments as part of its overall financial risk management policy, but does not use derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes. the company has partially hedged risks associated with fixed interest rate debt by entering into various interest rate swap agreements. interest rate swap agreements are described in detail in note 7 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on page 38 of the 2001 annual report. the company does not believe that any potential loss related to interest rate exposure will have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the company also entered into foreign currency option and forward contracts to hedge against value changes in foreign currency. foreign currency option and forward contracts are described in detail in note 4 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 35 and 36 of the 2001 annual report. the company believes it may experience continuing losses from foreign currency translation. however, the company does not expect currency translation, transaction or hedging contract losses to have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk........................................................ 10 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk the company is exposed to market risk associated with interest rates and foreign currency exposure. the company utilizes derivative instruments as part of its overall financial risk management policy, but does not use derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes. during 2002, the company terminated the interest rate swap contracts related to the 6.85% notes. these interest rate swap contracts are described in detail in note 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on page 49 of the 2002 annual report. the company does not believe that any potential loss related to interest rate exposure will have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the company also entered into foreign currency option and forward contracts to hedge against value changes in foreign currency. foreign currency option and forward contracts are described in detail in note 11 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on page 53 of the 2002 annual report. the company believes it may experience continuing losses from foreign currency translation. however, the company does not expect currency translation, transaction or hedging contract losses to have a material adverse effect on the company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 10 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk we are exposed to market risk associated with interest rates and foreign currency exposure. we utilize derivative instruments as part of our overall financial risk management policy, but do not use derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes. the company has partially hedged risks associated with fixed interest rate debt by entering into various interest rate swap agreements. these interest rate swap contracts are described in detail in note 7 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 55 and 56 of our 2003 annual report. we do not believe that any potential loss related to interest rate exposure will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we also entered into foreign currency option and forward contracts to hedge against value changes in foreign currency. foreign currency option and forward contracts are described in detail in note 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 60 and 61 of our 2003 annual report. we believe we may experience continuing losses from foreign currency translation. however, we do not expect currency translation, transaction or hedging contract losses to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 11 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk associated with interest rates and foreign currency exposure. we utilize derivative instruments as part of our overall financial risk management policy, but do not use derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes. the company has partially hedged risks associated with fixed interest rate debt by entering into various interest rate swap agreements. these interest rate swap contracts are described in detail in note 8 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 59 and 60 of our 2004 annual report. we do not believe that any potential loss related to interest rate exposure will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we also entered into foreign currency option and forward contracts to hedge against value changes in foreign currency. foreign currency option and forward contracts are described in detail in note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on page 65 of our 2004 annual report. we believe we may experience continuing losses from foreign currency translation. however, we do not expect currency translation, transaction or hedging contract losses to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 11 table of contentsrisk factors 6 risk factors described below and elsewhere in this report and other documents that we file from time to time with the securities and exchange commission are risks, uncertainties and other factors that can adversely affect our business, results of operation and financial condition. the following are some of the more important of these risks, uncertainties and other factors. additional risks, uncertainties and other factors that are currently not known to us or we believe are not currently material may also adversely affect our business, results of operation and financial condition. adverse changes in general business conditions in the united states and worldwide may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. adverse changes in general business conditions in the united states and worldwide may reduce the demand for some of our products and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. higher inflation rates, interest rates, tax rates and unemployment rates, higher labor and healthcare costs, recessions, changing governmental policies, laws and regulations, and other economic factors that adversely affect the demand for our paint, coatings and related products could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. economic downturns in cyclical segments of the economy may reduce the demand for some of our products and adversely affect our sales and earnings. portions of our business involve the sale of paint, coatings and related products to segments of the economy that are cyclical in nature, particularly segments relating to construction, housing and manufacturing. our sales to these segments are affected by the levels of discretionary consumer and business spending in these segments. during economic downturns in these segments, the levels of consumer and business discretionary spending may decrease. this decrease in spending will likely reduce the demand for some of our products and adversely affect our sales and earnings. increases in the cost of raw materials and energy may adversely affect our earnings. we purchase raw materials and energy for use in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products. factors such as adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes, and other disasters can disrupt raw material and fuel supplies and increase our costs. although raw materials and energy supplies are generally available from various sources in sufficient quantities, unexpected shortages and increases in the cost of raw materials and energy may have an adverse effect on our earnings in the event we are unable to offset these costs by sufficiently decreasing our operating costs or raising the prices of our products. many of our paint and coatings products utilize titanium dioxide, which is widely used as a white pigment for paint. during 2005, we experienced significant cost increases in energy and raw materials, particularly titanium dioxide and petroleum-based materials, which adversely impacted our earnings. 6 table of contents although we have an extensive customer base, the loss of any of our largest customers could adversely affect our sales and earnings. we have a large and varied customer base due to our extensive distribution network. during 2005, no individual customer accounted for sales totaling more than ten percent of our sales. however, we have some customers that, individually, purchase a large amount of products from us. although our broad distribution channels would help to minimize the impact of the loss of any one customer, the loss of any of these large customers could have an adverse effect on our sales and earnings. adverse weather conditions may reduce the demand for some of our products and could have a negative effect on our sales. from time to time, adverse weather conditions in certain parts of the united states have had an adverse effect on our sales of paint, coatings and related products. for example, unusually cold and rainy weather, especially during the exterior painting season, could have an adverse effect on sales of our exterior paint products. increased competition may reduce our sales and earnings performance. we face substantial competition from many international, national, regional and local competitors of various sizes in the manufacture, distribution and sale of our paint, coatings and related products. some of our competitors are larger than us and have greater financial resources to compete. other competitors are smaller and may be able to offer more specialized products. technology, product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, distribution, service and price are the key competitive factors for our business. competition in any of these areas may reduce our sales and adversely affect our earnings by resulting in decreased sales volumes, reduced prices and increased costs of manufacturing, distributing and selling our products. our operating results and financial condition may be negatively impacted if we do not successfully integrate past and future acquisitions into our existing operations and if the performance of the businesses we acquire do not meet our expectations. we have historically made strategic acquisitions of businesses in the paint and coatings industry and will likely acquire additional businesses in the future as part of our long term growth strategy. these acquisitions involve significant challenges and risks. in the event that we do not successfully integrate these acquisitions into our existing operations so as to realize the expected return on our investment, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. risks and uncertainties associated with our expansion into and our operations in china, south america and other foreign markets could adversely affect our sales and earnings. net external sales of our consolidated foreign subsidiaries totaled approximately $747 million in 2005, or 10.4% of our total consolidated net sales. sales outside of the united states make up an important part of our current business and future strategic plans. our sales and earnings could be adversely affected by a variety of international factors, including general economic conditions, inflation rates, recessions, foreign currency exchange rates, foreign investment and repatriation restrictions, legal and regulatory constraints, civil unrest, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and other external economic and political factors. our inability to successfully manage the risks and uncertainties relating to these factors could adversely affect our sales and earnings. in many foreign countries, it is acceptable to engage in certain business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in because of regulations that are applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act. although we have internal control policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these regulations, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will prevent a violation of these regulations. any violation could cause an adverse effect on our results of operations. 7 table of contents fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our sales and earnings. because of our international operations, we are exposed to market risk associated with interest rates and value changes in foreign currencies, which may adversely affect our business. historically, our reported net sales and net earnings have been subjected to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. our primary exchange rate exposure is with the british pound, the argentine peso, the brazilian real, the chilean peso, the canadian dollar and the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar. while we actively manage the exposure of our foreign currency market risk as part of our overall financial risk management policy, we believe we may experience continuing losses from foreign currency translation, and such losses could adversely affect our sales and earnings. we are required to comply with increasingly stringent federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, the cost of which is likely to increase and may adversely affect our earnings. our operations are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. these laws and regulations not only govern our current operations and products, but also impose potential liability on us for our past operations. we expect environmental laws and regulations to impose increasingly stringent requirements upon our industry and us in the future. our costs to comply with these laws and regulations may increase as these requirements become more stringent in the future, and these increased costs may adversely affect our earnings. we are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of our current and former sites, as well as a number of third-party sites, for which our ultimate liability may exceed the current amount we have accrued. we are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of our current and former sites and a number of third-party sites. we accrue for estimated costs of investigation and remediation activities at these sites for which commitments or clean-up plans have been developed and when such costs can be reasonably estimated based on industry standards and professional judgment. these estimated costs are based on currently available facts regarding each site. we continuously assess our potential liability for investigation and remediation activities and adjust our environmental-related accruals as information becomes available upon which more accurate costs can be reasonably estimated. due to the uncertainties surrounding environmental investigation and remediation activities, our liability may result in costs that are significantly higher than currently accrued and may have an adverse affect on our earnings. the nature, cost, quantity and outcome of pending and future litigation, such as litigation arising from the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paint, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. in the course of our business, we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits, including litigation relating to product liability and warranty, personal injury, environmental, intellectual property, commercial, contractual and antitrust claims. we accrue for these contingencies consistent with the policy stated on page 30 of our 2005 annual report under the caption entitled contingent liabilities of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. however, because litigation is inherently subject to many uncertainties and the ultimate result of any present or future litigation is unpredictable, our ultimate liability may result in costs that are significantly higher than currently accrued. in the event that our loss contingency is ultimately determined to be significantly higher than currently accrued, the recording of the liability may result in a material impact on net income for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued. additionally, due to the uncertainties involved, any potential liability determined to be attributable to us arising out of such litigation may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. our past operations included the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paints. along with other companies, we are a defendant in a number of legal proceedings, including purported class actions, separate actions brought by the state of rhode island, and actions brought by various counties, cities, school districts and other government-related entities, arising from the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paints. we are also a defendant in legal proceedings arising from the manufacture and sale of non-lead-based paints, 8 table of contents which seek recovery based upon various legal theories, including the failure to adequately warn of potential exposure to lead during surface preparation when using non-lead-based paint on surfaces previously painted with lead-based paint. we expect that additional lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation may be filed against us in the future asserting similar or different legal theories and seeking similar or different types of damages and relief. during september 2002, a jury trial commenced in the first phase of the action brought by the state of rhode island against us and the other defendants. the sole issue before the court in this first phase was whether lead pigment in paint constitutes a public nuisance under rhode island law. in october 2002, the court declared a mistrial as the jury, which was split four to two in favor of the defendants, was unable to reach a unanimous decision. the state of rhode island retried the case and on february 22, 2006, the jury returned a verdict, finding that (1) the cumulative presence of lead pigment in paints and coatings on buildings in the state of rhode island constitutes a public nuisance, (ii) we, along with two other defendants, caused or substantially contributed to the creation of the public nuisance, and (iii) we and two other defendants should be ordered to abate the public nuisance. the court will determine the scope of the abatement remedy. various other matters remain before the court. we intend to appeal the jury verdict. this was the first legal proceeding against us to go to trial relating to the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation. we believe it is possible that additional legal proceedings could be scheduled for trial in 2006 and in subsequent years in other jurisdictions. litigation is inherently subject to many uncertainties. adverse court rulings, such as the rhode island jury verdict and the wisconsin state supreme court determination in july 2005 that wisconsin risk contribution theory applies to the lead pigment litigation, or determinations of liability, among other factors, could affect the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation against us and encourage an increase in the number and nature of future claims and proceedings. in addition, from time to time, various legislation and administrative regulations have been enacted or proposed to impose obligations on present and former manufacturers of lead pigments and lead-based paints respecting asserted health concerns associated with such products and to overturn court decisions in which we and other manufacturers have been successful. we cannot reasonably determine the impact that the state of rhode island decision and determination of liability will have on the number or nature of present or future claims and proceedings against us. due to the uncertainties involved, management is unable to predict the outcome of the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, the number or nature of possible future claims and proceedings, or the effect that any legislation and/or administrative regulations may have on the litigation or against us. in addition, management cannot reasonably determine the scope or amount of the potential costs and liabilities related to such litigation, or any such legislation and regulations. we have not accrued any amounts for such litigation. any potential liability that may result from such litigation or such legislation and regulations cannot reasonably be estimated. in the event any significant liability is determined to be attributable to us relating to such litigation, the recording of the liability may result in a material impact on net income for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued. additionally, due to the uncertainties associated with the amount of any such liability and/or the nature of any other remedy which may be imposed in such litigation, any potential liability determined to be attributable to us arising out of such litigation may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. an estimate of the potential impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition cannot be made due to the aforementioned uncertainties. we discuss this litigation in more detail on pages 31 and 32 of our 2005 annual report under the caption entitled litigation of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in note 18 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on page 72 of our 2005 annual report. 9 table of contents the costs or potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us through our ownership of life shield could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we own a 25% interest in life shield engineered systems, llc and are obligated to acquire an additional 24% interest in life shield in october 2007. life shield is a start-up company that develops and manufactures blast and fragment mitigating systems and ballistic resistant systems. the blast and fragment mitigating systems and ballistic resistant systems create a potentially higher level of product liability for us than is normally associated with coatings and related products we manufacture, distribute and sell. depending upon the extent of any potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us relating to life shield, such liability could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. we discuss the risks and uncertainties relating to our ownership of life shield in more detail on page 30 of our 2005 annual report under the caption entitled contingent liabilities of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 15 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk associated with interest rates and foreign currency exposure. we occasionally utilize derivative instruments as part of our overall financial risk management policy, but do not use derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes. the company has partially hedged risks associated with fixed interest rate debt by entering into various interest rate swap agreements. these interest rate swap contracts are described in detail in note 7 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 60 and 61 of our 2005 annual report. we do not believe that any potential loss related to interest rate exposure will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we also entered into foreign currency option and forward contracts to hedge against value changes in foreign currency. foreign currency option and forward contracts are described in detail in note 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on page 66 of our 2005 annual report. we believe we may experience continuing losses from foreign currency translation. however, we do not expect currency translation, transaction or hedging contract losses to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.risk factors 6 risk factors described below and elsewhere in this report and other documents that we file from time to time with the securities and exchange commission are risks, uncertainties and other factors that can adversely affect our business, results of operation and financial condition. the following are some of the more important of these risks, uncertainties and other factors. additional risks, uncertainties and other factors that are currently not known to us or we believe are not currently material may also adversely affect our business, results of operation and financial condition. adverse changes in general business conditions in the united states and worldwide may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. adverse changes in general business conditions in the united states and worldwide may reduce the demand for some of our products and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. higher inflation rates, interest rates, tax rates and unemployment rates, higher labor and healthcare costs, recessions, changing governmental policies, laws and regulations, and other economic factors that adversely affect the demand for our paint, coatings and related products could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. economic downturns in cyclical segments of the economy may reduce the demand for some of our products and adversely affect our sales and earnings. portions of our business involve the sale of paint, coatings and related products to segments of the economy that are cyclical in nature, particularly segments relating to construction, housing and manufacturing. our sales to these segments are affected by the levels of discretionary consumer and business spending in these segments. during economic downturns in these segments, the levels of consumer and business discretionary spending may decrease. this decrease in spending will likely reduce the demand for some of our products and adversely affect our sales and earnings. increases in the cost of raw materials and energy may adversely affect our earnings. we purchase raw materials and energy for use in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products. factors such as adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes, and other disasters can disrupt raw material and fuel supplies and increase our costs. although raw materials and energy supplies are generally available from various sources in sufficient quantities, unexpected shortages and increases in the cost of raw materials and energy may have an adverse effect on our earnings in the event we are unable to offset these costs by sufficiently decreasing our operating costs or raising the prices of our products. many of our paint and coatings products utilize titanium dioxide, which is widely used as a white pigment for paint. during 2006, we experienced significant cost increases in energy and raw materials, particularly titanium dioxide and petroleum-based materials, which adversely impacted our earnings. although we have an extensive customer base, the loss of any of our largest customers could adversely affect our sales and earnings. we have a large and varied customer base due to our extensive distribution network. during 2006, no individual customer accounted for sales totaling more than ten percent of our sales. however, we have some customers that, individually, purchase a large amount of products from us. although our broad distribution channels would help to minimize the impact of the loss of any one customer, the loss of any of these large customers could have an adverse effect on our sales and earnings. 6 table of contents adverse weather conditions may reduce the demand for some of our products and could have a negative effect on our sales. from time to time, adverse weather conditions in certain parts of the united states have had an adverse effect on our sales of paint, coatings and related products. for example, unusually cold and rainy weather, especially during the exterior painting season, could have an adverse effect on sales of our exterior paint products. increased competition may reduce our sales and earnings performance. we face substantial competition from many international, national, regional and local competitors of various sizes in the manufacture, distribution and sale of our paint, coatings and related products. some of our competitors are larger than us and have greater financial resources to compete. other competitors are smaller and may be able to offer more specialized products. technology, product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, distribution, service and price are the key competitive factors for our business. competition in any of these areas may reduce our sales and adversely affect our earnings by resulting in decreased sales volumes, reduced prices and increased costs of manufacturing, distributing and selling our products. our operating results and financial condition may be negatively impacted if we do not successfully integrate past and future acquisitions into our existing operations and if the performance of the businesses we acquire do not meet our expectations. we have historically made strategic acquisitions of businesses in the paint and coatings industry and will likely acquire additional businesses in the future as part of our long term growth strategy. these acquisitions involve significant challenges and risks. in the event that we do not successfully integrate these acquisitions into our existing operations so as to realize the expected return on our investment, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. risks and uncertainties associated with our expansion into and our operations in china, south america and other foreign markets could adversely affect our sales and earnings. net external sales of our consolidated foreign subsidiaries totaled approximately $831 million in 2006, or 10.6% of our total consolidated net sales. sales outside of the united states make up an important part of our current business and future strategic plans. our sales and earnings could be adversely affected by a variety of international factors, including general economic conditions, inflation rates, recessions, foreign currency exchange rates, foreign investment and repatriation restrictions, legal and regulatory constraints, civil unrest, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and other external economic and political factors. our inability to successfully manage the risks and uncertainties relating to these factors could adversely affect our sales and earnings. in many foreign countries, it is acceptable to engage in certain business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in because of regulations that are applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act. although we have internal control policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these regulations, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will prevent a violation of these regulations. any violation could cause an adverse effect on our results of operations. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our sales and earnings. because of our international operations, we are exposed to market risk associated with interest rates and value changes in foreign currencies, which may adversely affect our business. historically, our reported net sales and net earnings have been subjected to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. our primary exchange rate exposure is with the british pound, the argentine peso, the brazilian real, the chilean peso, the canadian dollar and the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar. while we actively manage the exposure of our foreign currency market risk as part of our overall financial risk management policy, we believe we may experience continuing losses from foreign currency translation, and such losses could adversely affect our sales and earnings. 7 table of contents we are required to comply with increasingly stringent federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, the cost of which is likely to increase and may adversely affect our earnings. our operations are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. these laws and regulations not only govern our current operations and products, but also impose potential liability on us for our past operations. we expect environmental laws and regulations to impose increasingly stringent requirements upon our industry and us in the future. our costs to comply with these laws and regulations may increase as these requirements become more stringent in the future, and these increased costs may adversely affect our earnings. we are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of our current and former sites, as well as a number of third-party sites, for which our ultimate liability may exceed the current amount we have accrued. we are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of our current and former sites and a number of third-party sites. we accrue for estimated costs of investigation and remediation activities at these sites for which commitments or clean-up plans have been developed and when such costs can be reasonably estimated based on industry standards and professional judgment. these estimated costs are based on currently available facts regarding each site. we continuously assess our potential liability for investigation and remediation activities and adjust our environmental-related accruals as information becomes available upon which more accurate costs can be reasonably estimated. due to the uncertainties surrounding environmental investigation and remediation activities, our liability may result in costs that are significantly higher than currently accrued and may have an adverse affect on our earnings. the nature, cost, quantity and outcome of pending and future litigation, such as litigation arising from the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paint, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. in the course of our business, we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits, including litigation relating to product liability and warranty, personal injury, environmental, intellectual property, commercial, contractual and antitrust claims. we accrue for these contingencies when it is probable that one or more future events will occur confirming the fact of a loss and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. however, because litigation is inherently subject to many uncertainties and the ultimate result of any present or future litigation is unpredictable, our ultimate liability may result in costs that are significantly higher than currently accrued. in the event that our loss contingency is ultimately determined to be significantly higher than currently accrued, the recording of the liability may result in a material impact on net income for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued. additionally, due to the uncertainties involved, any potential liability determined to be attributable to us arising out of such litigation may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. our past operations included the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paints. along with other companies, we are a defendant in a number of legal proceedings, including purported class actions, separate actions brought by the state of rhode island, and actions brought by various counties, cities, school districts and other government-related entities, arising from the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paints. we are also a defendant in legal proceedings arising from the manufacture and sale of non-lead-based paints, which seek recovery based upon various legal theories, including the failure to adequately warn of potential exposure to lead during surface preparation when using non-lead-based paint on surfaces previously painted with lead-based paint. we expect that additional lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation may be filed against us in the future asserting similar or different legal theories and seeking similar or different types of damages and relief. during september 2002, a jury trial commenced in the first phase of the action brought by the state of rhode island against us and the other defendants. the sole issue in this first phase was whether lead pigment in paint constitutes a public nuisance under rhode island law. in october 2002, the court declared a mistrial as the jury, which was split four to two in favor of the defendants, was unable to reach a unanimous decision. the state of rhode island retried the case and on february 22, 2006, the jury returned a verdict, finding that (1) the cumulative presence of lead pigment in paints and coatings on buildings in the state of rhode island 8 table of contents constitutes a public nuisance, (ii) we, along with two other defendants, caused or substantially contributed to the creation of the public nuisance, and (iii) we and two other defendants should be ordered to abate the public nuisance. on february 26, 2007, the court issued a decision on the post-trial motions and other matters pending before the court. specifically, the court (i) denied the defendants post-trial motions for judgment as a matter of law and for a new trial, (ii) decided to enter a judgment of abatement in favor of the state against us and two other defendants, and (iii) decided to appoint a special master for the purpose of assisting the court in its consideration of a remedial order to implement the judgment of abatement, and if necessary, any monitoring of the implementation of that order. we intend to appeal the jury verdict and the court decision. litigation is inherently subject to many uncertainties. adverse court rulings, such as the rhode island jury verdict and the wisconsin state supreme court determination in july 2005 that wisconsin risk contribution theory may apply to the lead pigment litigation, or determinations of liability, among other factors, could affect the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation against us and encourage an increase in the number and nature of future claims and proceedings. in addition, from time to time, various legislation and administrative regulations have been enacted or proposed to impose obligations on present and former manufacturers of lead pigments and lead-based paints respecting asserted health concerns associated with such products and to overturn court decisions in which we and other manufacturers have been successful. we cannot reasonably determine the impact that the state of rhode island decision and determination of liability will have on the number or nature of present or future claims and proceedings against us. due to the uncertainties involved, management is unable to predict the outcome of the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, the number or nature of possible future claims and proceedings, or the effect that any legislation and/or administrative regulations may have on the litigation or against us. in addition, management cannot reasonably determine the scope or amount of the potential costs and liabilities related to such litigation, or any such legislation and regulations. we have not accrued any amounts for such litigation. any potential liability that may result from such litigation or such legislation and regulations cannot reasonably be estimated. in the event any significant liability is determined to be attributable to us relating to such litigation, the recording of the liability may result in a material impact on net income for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued. additionally, due to the uncertainties associated with the amount of any such liability and/or the nature of any other remedy which may be imposed in such litigation, any potential liability determined to be attributable to us arising out of such litigation may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. an estimate of the potential impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition cannot be made due to the aforementioned uncertainties. we discuss the risks and uncertainties related to litigation, including the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, in more detail on pages 21 and 22 of our 2006 annual report under the caption litigation and other contingent liabilities, and pages 29 through 33 of our 2006 annual report under the caption litigation, of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in note 9 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 65 through 68 of our 2006 annual report. the costs or potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us through our ownership of life shield could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. we own a 25% interest in life shield engineered systems, llc and are obligated to acquire an additional 24% interest in life shield in october 2007. life shield is a start-up company that develops and manufactures blast and fragment mitigating systems and ballistic resistant systems. the blast and fragment mitigating systems and ballistic resistant systems create a potentially higher level of product liability for us than is normally associated with coatings and related products we manufacture, distribute and sell. depending upon the extent of any potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us relating to life shield, such liability could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. we discuss these risks and uncertainties in more detail on page 29 of our 2006 annual report under the caption entitled contingent liabilities of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 9 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 14 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk associated with interest rates, foreign currency and commodity fluctuations. we occasionally utilize derivative instruments as part of our overall financial risk management policy, but do not 14 table of contents use derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes. the company had foreign currency option and forward contracts and commodity swaps outstanding at december 31, 2006 to hedge against value changes in foreign currency and commodities. foreign currency option and forward contracts are described in detail in note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on page 73 of our 2006 annual report. commodity swaps are described in detail in note 1 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on page 48 of our 2006 annual report. we believe we may experience continuing losses from foreign currency translation and commodity price fluctuations. however, we do not expect currency translation, transaction, commodity price fluctuations or hedging contract losses to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.risk factors 6 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 15risk factors 5 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 15risk factors 7 risk factors described below and elsewhere in this report and other documents that we file from time to time with the securities and exchange commission are risks, uncertainties and other factors that can adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. adverse changes in general business and economic conditions in the united states and worldwide may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. adverse changes in general business and economic conditions in the united states and worldwide may reduce the demand for some of our products and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. higher inflation rates, interest rates, tax rates and unemployment rates, higher labor and healthcare costs, recessions, changing governmental policies, laws and regulations, and other economic factors that adversely affect the demand for our paint, coatings and related products could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. the duration and severity of global economic and financial conditions may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. a worsening of global economic and financial conditions may adversely impact our net sales, the collection of accounts receivable, funding for working capital needs, expected cash flow generation from current and acquired businesses, and our investments, which may adversely impact our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we finance a portion of our sales through trade credit. the current global economic and financial conditions have caused some customers to be less profitable and have increased our exposure to credit risk. in addition, due to the tightening of credit markets, some customers who require financing for their businesses have not been able to obtain necessary financing. continuation of these conditions could limit our ability to collect our accounts receivable, which could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we generally fund a portion of our seasonal working capital needs and obtain funding for other general corporate purposes through short-term borrowings backed by our revolving credit facility and other financing facilities. if any of the banks in these credit and financing facilities are unable to perform on their commitments, which could adversely affect our ability to fund seasonal working capital needs and obtain funding for other general corporate purposes, our cash flow, liquidity or financial condition could be adversely impacted. 7 table of contents although we currently have available credit facilities to fund our current operating needs, we cannot be certain that we will be able to replace our existing credit facilities or refinance our existing debt when necessary. our cost of borrowing and ability to access the capital markets are affected not only by market conditions, but also by our debt and credit ratings assigned by the major credit rating agencies. downgrades in these ratings will increase our cost of borrowing and could have an adverse effect on our access to the capital markets, including our access to the commercial paper market. an inability to access the capital markets could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we have goodwill and intangible assets recorded on our balance sheet. we periodically evaluate the recoverability of the carrying value of our goodwill and intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that such value may not be recoverable. impairment assessment involves judgment as to assumptions regarding future sales and cash flows and the impact of market conditions on those assumptions. future events and changing market conditions may impact our assumptions and may result in changes in our estimates of future sales and cash flows that may result in us incurring substantial impairment charges, which would adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. we hold investments in equity and debt securities in some of our defined benefit pension plans. a decrease in the value of plan assets resulting from a general financial downturn may cause a negative pension plan investment performance, which may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. protracted duration of economic downturns in cyclical segments of the economy may continue to depress the demand for some of our products and adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition. portions of our business involve the sale of paint, coatings and related products to segments of the economy that are cyclical in nature, particularly segments relating to construction, housing and manufacturing. our sales to these segments are affected by the levels of discretionary consumer and business spending in these segments. during economic downturns in these segments, the levels of consumer and business discretionary spending may decrease, and the recovery of these segments may lag behind the recovery of the overall economy. this decrease in spending will likely reduce the demand for some of our products and may adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow or financial condition. during the recent recession, the u.s. homebuilding industry experienced a significant and sustained decrease in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale. during this same time period, the u.s. real estate industry also experienced a significant decrease in existing home turnover. the commercial and industrial building and maintenance sectors also began to experience a significant decline in 2008. the downturn in each of these segments contributed to an unprecedented decline in the demand for some of our products and has continued to adversely affect our sales and earnings. new home starts, existing home sales and new commercial construction are significantly below their pre-recession highs. although many of our end markets have started to show signs of stabilization and modest improvement, challenging market conditions are expected to continue for the foreseeable future and may worsen. a continued downturn or worsening in these segments will continue to reduce the demand for some of our products and may adversely impact sales, earnings and cash flow. increases in the cost of raw materials and energy may adversely affect our earnings or cash flow. we purchase raw materials and energy for use in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products. factors such as adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes, and other disasters can disrupt raw material and fuel supplies and increase our costs. in addition, many raw material suppliers decreased manufacturing capacity during the recent recession. continued economic recovery has caused and may continue to cause demand pressure on raw material supplies. the decrease in manufacturing capacity, along with strong global demand for certain raw materials, has caused and may continue to cause tight supplies and significant price increases, especially in titanium dioxide and petrochemicals, which are key ingredients used in the manufacture of paint and coatings. although raw materials and energy supplies (including oil and natural gas) are generally 8 table of contents available from various sources in sufficient quantities, unexpected shortages and increases in the cost of raw materials and energy, or any deterioration in our relationships with or the financial viability of our suppliers, may have an adverse effect on our earnings or cash flow in the event we are unable to offset higher costs in a timely manner by sufficiently decreasing our operating costs or raising the prices of our products. many of our paint and coatings products utilize oil based derivatives, minerals (including titanium dioxide) and metals. although we have an extensive customer base, the loss of any of our largest customers could adversely affect our sales, earnings or cash flow. we have a large and varied customer base due to our extensive distribution network. during 2011, no individual customer accounted for sales totaling more than ten percent of our sales. however, we have some customers that, individually, purchase a large amount of products from us. although our broad distribution channels would help to minimize the impact of the loss of any one customer, the loss of any of these large customers could have an adverse effect on our sales, earnings or cash flow. adverse weather conditions may temporarily reduce the demand for some of our products and could have a negative effect on our sales, earnings or cash flow. from time to time, adverse weather conditions in certain parts of the united states have had an adverse effect on our sales of paint, coatings and related products. for example, unusually cold and rainy weather, especially during the exterior painting season, could have an adverse effect on sales of our exterior paint products. an adverse effect on sales may cause a reduction in our earnings or cash flow. increased competition may reduce our sales, earnings or cash flow performance. we face substantial competition from many international, national, regional and local competitors of various sizes in the manufacture, distribution and sale of our paint, coatings and related products. some of our competitors are larger than us and have greater financial resources to compete. other competitors are smaller and may be able to offer more specialized products. technology, product quality, product innovation, breadth of product line, technical expertise, distribution, service and price are the key competitive factors for our business. competition in any of these areas may reduce our sales and adversely affect our earnings or cash flow by resulting in decreased sales volumes, reduced prices and increased costs of manufacturing, distributing and selling our products. our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition may be negatively impacted if we do not successfully integrate past and future acquisitions into our existing operations and if the performance of the businesses we acquire do not meet our expectations. we have historically made strategic acquisitions of businesses in the paint and coatings industry and will likely acquire additional businesses in the future as part of our long-term growth strategy. in 2010, we acquired two industrial wood coatings businesses, sayerlack and becker acroma, with significant operations in europe, and pinturas condor, the largest paint and coatings company in ecuador. in 2011, we acquired leighs paints, a leading industrial fire protection coatings manufacturer headquartered in the united kingdom. these acquisitions involve challenges and risks. in the event that we do not successfully integrate these acquisitions into our existing operations so as to realize the expected return on our investment, our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition could be adversely affected. risks and uncertainties associated with our expansion into and our operations in asia, europe, mexico, south america and other foreign markets could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. net external sales of our consolidated foreign subsidiaries totaled approximately $1.98 billion in 2011, or 22.6% of our total consolidated net sales. sales outside of the united states make up a growing and important part of our current business and future strategic plans. our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial 9 table of contents condition could be adversely affected by a variety of international factors, including general economic conditions, inflation rates, recessions, foreign currency exchange rates, foreign currency exchange controls, interest rates, foreign investment and repatriation restrictions, legal and regulatory constraints, civil unrest, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and other external economic and political factors. our inability to successfully manage the risks and uncertainties relating to these factors could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. in many foreign countries, it is acceptable to engage in certain business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in because of regulations that are applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and the uk bribery act. although we have internal control policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these regulations, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will prevent a violation of these regulations. any violation could cause an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. because of our international operations, we are exposed to risk associated with interest rates and value changes in foreign currencies, which may adversely affect our business. historically, our reported net sales, earnings, cash flow and financial condition have been subjected to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. our primary exchange rate exposure is with the euro, the british pound, the argentine peso, the brazilian real, the chilean peso, the canadian dollar and the mexican peso against the u.s. dollar. while we actively manage the exposure of our foreign currency risk as part of our overall financial risk management policy, we believe we may experience losses from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, and such losses could adversely affect our sales, earnings, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we are subject to a wide variety of complex domestic and foreign laws and regulations, for which compliance could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. we are subject to a wide variety of complex domestic and foreign laws and regulations, and legal compliance risks, including securities laws, tax laws, employment and pension-related laws, competition laws, u.s. and foreign export and trading laws, and laws governing improper business practices. we are affected by new laws and regulations, and changes to existing laws and regulations, including interpretations by courts and regulators. from time to time, our company, our operations and the industries in which we operate are being reviewed or investigated by regulators, which could lead to enforcement actions or the assertion of private litigation claims and damages. although we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs to mitigate these risks, the global and diverse nature of our operations means that compliance risks will continue to exist. investigations, examinations and other proceedings, the nature and outcome of which cannot be predicted, will likely arise from time to time. these investigations, examinations and other proceedings could subject us to significant liability and require us to take significant accruals or pay significant settlements, fines and penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. we are subject to tax laws and regulations in the united states and multiple foreign jurisdictions. we are affected by changes in tax laws and regulations, as well as changes in related interpretations and other tax guidance. in the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to examinations and investigations by various tax authorities. in addition to existing examinations and investigations, there could be additional examinations and investigations in the future, and existing examinations and investigations could be expanded. for non-income tax risks, we estimate material loss contingencies and accrue for such loss contingencies as required by u.s. generally accepted accounting principles based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. subsequent developments may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency. in the event the loss contingency is ultimately determined to be significantly higher than currently 10 table of contents accrued, the recording of the additional liability may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such additional liability is accrued. in those cases where no accrual is recorded because it is not probable that a liability has been incurred and cannot be reasonably estimated, any potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued or paid. for income tax risks, we recognize tax benefits based on our assessment that a tax benefit has a greater than 50% likelihood of being sustained upon ultimate settlement with the applicable taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant facts. for those income tax positions where we assess that there is not a greater than 50% likelihood that such tax benefits will be sustained, we do not recognize a tax benefit in our financial statements. subsequent events may cause us to change our assessment of the likelihood of sustaining a previously-recognized benefit which could result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow or financial position for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued or paid. we discuss risks and uncertainties with regard to taxes in more detail in note 15 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 73 and 74 of our 2011 annual report. we are required to comply with numerous complex and increasingly stringent domestic and foreign health, safety and environmental laws and regulations, the cost of which is likely to increase and may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. our operations are subject to various domestic and foreign health, safety and environmental laws and regulations. these laws and regulations not only govern our current operations and products, but also impose potential liability on us for our past operations. we expect health, safety and environmental laws and regulations to impose increasingly stringent requirements upon our industry and us in the future. our costs to comply with these laws and regulations may increase as these requirements become more stringent in the future, and these increased costs may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow or financial condition. we are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of our currently and formerly owned sites, as well as a number of third-party sites, for which our ultimate liability may exceed the current amount we have accrued. we are involved with environmental investigation and remediation activities at some of our currently and formerly owned sites and a number of third-party sites. we accrue for estimated costs of investigation and remediation activities at these sites for which commitments or clean-up plans have been developed and when such costs can be reasonably estimated based on industry standards and professional judgment. these estimated costs are based on currently available facts regarding each site. we continuously assess our potential liability for investigation and remediation activities and adjust our environmental-related accruals as information becomes available upon which more accurate costs can be reasonably estimated. due to the uncertainties surrounding environmental investigation and remediation activities, our liability may result in costs that are significantly higher than currently accrued and may have an adverse affect on our earnings. we discuss these risks and uncertainties in more detail on page 23 of our 2011 annual report under the caption environmental matters, pages 27 through 29 of our 2011 annual report under the caption environmental-related liabilities and in note 9 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 65 and 66 of our 2011 annual report. the nature, cost, quantity and outcome of pending and future litigation, such as litigation arising from the historical manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paint, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity and financial condition. in the course of our business, we are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits, including litigation relating to product liability and warranty, personal injury, environmental, intellectual property, commercial, contractual and antitrust claims that are inherently subject to many uncertainties regarding the possibility of a loss to us. these uncertainties will ultimately be resolved when one or more future events occur or fail to occur confirming the incurrence of a liability or the reduction of a liability. in accordance with the contingencies topic of the 11 table of contents asc, we accrue for these contingencies by a charge to income when it is both probable that one or more future events will occur confirming the fact of a loss and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. in the event that a loss contingency is ultimately determined to be significantly higher than currently accrued, the recording of the additional liability may result in a material impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such additional liability is accrued. in those cases where no accrual is recorded because it is not probable that a liability has been incurred and cannot be reasonably estimated, any potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us may result in a material impact on our results of operations, liquidity or financial condition for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued. in those cases where no accrual is recorded or exposure to loss exists in excess of the amount accrued, the contingencies topic of the asc requires disclosure of the contingency when there is a reasonable possibility that a loss or additional loss may have been incurred even if the possibility may be remote. our past operations included the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paints. along with other companies, we are a defendant in a number of legal proceedings, including individual personal injury actions, purported class actions and actions brought by various counties, cities, school districts and other government-related entities, arising from the manufacture and sale of lead pigments and lead-based paints. the plaintiffs are seeking recovery based upon various legal theories, including negligence, strict liability, breach of warranty, negligent misrepresentations and omissions, fraudulent misrepresentations and omissions, concert of action, civil conspiracy, violations of unfair trade practice and consumer protection laws, enterprise liability, market share liability, public nuisance, unjust enrichment and other theories. the plaintiffs seek various damages and relief, including personal injury and property damage, costs relating to the detection and abatement of lead-based paint from buildings, costs associated with a public education campaign, medical monitoring costs and others. we are also a defendant in legal proceedings arising from the manufacture and sale of non-lead-based paints which seek recovery based upon various legal theories, including the failure to adequately warn of potential exposure to lead during surface preparation when using non-lead-based paint on surfaces previously painted with lead-based paint. we believe that the litigation brought to date is without merit or subject to meritorious defenses and are vigorously defending such litigation. we expect that additional lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation may be filed against us in the future asserting similar or different legal theories and seeking similar or different types of damages and relief. notwithstanding our views on the merits, litigation is inherently subject to many uncertainties, and we ultimately may not prevail. adverse court rulings, such as the jury verdict against us and other defendants in the state of rhode island action and the wisconsin state supreme court determination that wisconsin risk contribution theory may apply in the lead pigment litigation, or determinations of liability, among other factors, could affect the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation against us and encourage an increase in the number and nature of future claims and proceedings. in addition, from time to time, various legislation and administrative regulations have been enacted, promulgated or proposed to impose obligations on present and former manufacturers of lead pigments and lead-based paints respecting asserted health concerns associated with such products or to overturn the effect of court decisions in which we and other manufacturers have been successful. due to the uncertainties involved, management is unable to predict the outcome of the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, the number or nature of possible future claims and proceedings, or the effect that any legislation and/or administrative regulations may have on the litigation or against us. in addition, management cannot reasonably determine the scope or amount of the potential costs and liabilities related to such litigation, or any such legislation and regulations. we have not accrued any amounts for such litigation. with respect to such litigation, including the public nuisance litigation, the company does not believe that it is probable that a loss has occurred, and it is not possible to estimate the range of potential losses as there is no prior history of a loss of this nature and there is no substantive information upon which an estimate could be based. in addition, any potential liability that may result from such legislation and regulations cannot reasonably be estimated. in the event any significant liability is determined to be attributable to us relating to such litigation, the recording of the liability may result in a material impact on net income for the annual or interim period during which such liability is accrued. additionally, due to the uncertainties associated with the amount of any such liability and/or the nature 12 table of contents of any other remedy which may be imposed in such litigation, any potential liability determined to be attributable to us arising out of such litigation may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. an estimate of the potential impact on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition cannot be made due to the aforementioned uncertainties. we discuss the risks and uncertainties related to litigation, including the lead pigment and lead-based paint litigation, in more detail on page 23 of our 2011 annual report under the caption litigation and other contingent liabilities, and pages 31 through 33 of our 2011 annual report under the caption litigation of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in note 10 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on pages 67 through 69 of our 2011 annual report. the costs or potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us through our ownership of life shield could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we own life shield engineered systems, llc. life shield develops and manufactures blast and fragment mitigating systems. the blast and fragment mitigating systems create a potentially higher level of product liability for us than is normally associated with coatings and related products we manufacture, distribute and sell. depending upon the extent of any potential liability ultimately determined to be attributable to us relating to life shield, such liability could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. we discuss these risks and uncertainties in more detail on page 31 of our 2011 annual report under the caption contingent liabilities of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 19 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to market risk associated with interest rates, foreign currency and commodity fluctuations. we occasionally utilize derivative instruments as part of our overall financial risk management policy, but do not use derivative instruments for speculative or trading purposes. the company entered into foreign currency option and forward currency exchange contracts during 2011 to hedge against value changes in foreign currency. there were no contracts outstanding at december 31, 2011. foreign currency option and forward contracts are described in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements on page 73 of our 2011 annual report. we believe we may experience continuing losses from foreign currency fluctuations. however, we do not expect currency translation, transaction or hedging contract losses to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.