risk factors. in evaluating the company, the risks described below and the matters described in forward-looking statements should be considered carefully. such risks and matters could significantly and adversely affect the company's business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the company faces significant competition in the retail industry. the company conducts its retail merchandising business under highly competitive conditions. although the company is one of the nation's largest retailers, it has numerous and varied competitors at the national and local levels, including conventional and specialty department stores, other specialty stores, category killers, mass merchants, value retailers, discounters, and internet and mail-order retailers. competition may intensify as the company's competitors enter into business combinations or alliances. competition is characterized by many factors, including assortment, advertising, price, quality, service, location, reputation and credit availability. if the company does not compete effectively with regard to these factors, its results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the company's sales and operating results depend on consumer preferences and consumer spending. the fashion and retail industries are subject to sudden shifts in consumer trends and consumer spending. the company's sales and operating results depend in part on its ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. the company develops new retail concepts and continuously adjusts its industry position in certain major and private-label brands and product categories in an effort to satisfy customers. any sustained failure to anticipate, identify and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and consumer preferences could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. the company's sales are impacted by discretionary spending by consumers. consumer spending may be affected by many factors outside of the company's control, including general economic conditions, consumer disposable income levels, consumer confidence levels, the availability, cost and level of consumer debt and customer behaviors 4 table of contents towards incurring and paying debt, the costs of basic necessities and other goods and the effects of the weather or natural disasters. the company's business is subject to unfavorable economic and political conditions and other developments and risks. unfavorable global, domestic or regional economic or political conditions and other developments and risks could negatively affect the company's business. for example, unfavorable changes related to interest rates, rates of economic growth, fiscal and monetary policies of governments, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, consumer debt payment behaviors, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, oil prices, and other matters that influence the availability and cost of merchandise, consumer confidence, spending and tourism could adversely impact the company's business and results of operations. in addition, unstable political conditions or civil unrest, including terrorist activities and worldwide military and domestic disturbances and conflicts, may disrupt commerce and could have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company's revenues and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of its business. the company's business is seasonal, with a high proportion of revenues and operating cash flows generated during the second half of the fiscal year, which includes the fall and holiday selling seasons. a disproportionate amount of revenues fall in the fourth fiscal quarter, which coincides with the holiday season. in addition, the company incurs significant additional expenses in the period leading up to the months of november and december in anticipation of higher sales volume in those periods, including for additional inventory, advertising and employees. the company's business could be affected by extreme weather conditions or natural disasters. extreme weather conditions in the areas in which the company's stores are located could adversely affect the company's business. for example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rainstorms or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for the company's customers to travel to its stores and thereby reduce the company's sales and profitability. the company's business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. for example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of the company's inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions. reduced sales from extreme or prolonged unseasonable weather conditions could adversely affect the company's business. in addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes and earthquakes, or a combination of these or other factors, could severely damage or destroy one or more of the company's stores or warehouses located in the affected areas, thereby disrupting the company's business operations. the company's pension costs could increase at a higher than anticipated rate. significant changes in interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and investment losses on plan assets could affect the funded status of the company's plans and could increase future funding requirements of the pension plans. a significant increase in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on the company's cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. increases in the cost of employee benefits could impact the company's financial results and cash flow. the company's expenses relating to employee health benefits are significant. unfavorable changes in the cost of such benefits could impact the company's financial results and cash flow. healthcare costs have risen significantly in recent years, and recent legislative and private sector initiatives regarding healthcare reform could result in significant changes to the u.s. healthcare system. the company is not able at this time to determine the impact that healthcare reform could have on the company-sponsored medical plans. inability to access capital markets could adversely affect the company's business or financial condition. changes in the credit and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate fluctuations, may increase the cost of financing or restrict the company's access to this potential source of future liquidity. a decrease in the ratings that rating agencies assign to the company's short and long-term debt may negatively impact the company's access to the debt capital markets and increase the company's cost of borrowing. in addition, the company's bank credit agreements require the company to maintain specified interest coverage and leverage ratios. the company's ability to comply with the ratios may be affected by events beyond its control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. if the company's results of operations or operating ratios deteriorate to a point where the company is not in compliance with its debt covenants, and the company is unable to obtain a waiver, much of the company's debt would be in default and could become 5 table of contents due and payable immediately. the company's assets may not be sufficient to repay in full this indebtedness, resulting in a need for an alternate source of funding. the company cannot make any assurances that it would be able to obtain such an alternate source of funding on satisfactory terms, if at all, and its inability to do so could cause the holders of its securities to experience a partial or total loss of their investments in the company. the company periodically reviews the carrying value of its goodwill for possible impairment; if future circumstances indicate that goodwill is impaired, the company could be required to write down amounts of goodwill and record impairment charges. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the company reduced the carrying value of its goodwill from $9,125 million to $3,743 million and recorded a related non-cash impairment charge of $5,382 million. the company continues to monitor relevant circumstances, including consumer spending levels, general economic conditions and the market prices for the company's common stock, and the potential impact that such circumstances might have on the valuation of the company's goodwill. it is possible that changes in such circumstances, or in the numerous variables associated with the judgments, assumptions and estimates made by the company in assessing the appropriate valuation of its goodwill, could in the future require the company to further reduce its goodwill and record related non-cash impairment charges. if the company were required to further reduce its goodwill and record related non-cash impairment charges, the company's financial position and results of operations would be adversely affected. the company depends on its ability to attract and retain quality employees. the company's business is dependent upon attracting and retaining quality employees. the company has a large number of employees, many of whom are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. the company's ability to meet its labor needs while controlling the costs associated with hiring and training new employees is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. in addition, as a large and complex enterprise operating in a highly competitive and challenging business environment, the company is highly dependent upon management personnel to develop and effectively execute successful business strategies and tactics. any circumstances that adversely impact the company's ability to attract, train, develop and retain quality employees throughout the organization could adversely affect the company's business and results of operations. the company depends upon designers, vendors and other sources of merchandise, goods and services. the company's relationships with established and emerging designers have been a significant contributor to the company's past success. the company's ability to find qualified vendors and access products in a timely and efficient manner is often challenging, particularly with respect to goods sourced outside the united states. the company's procurement of goods and services from outside the united states is subject to risks associated with political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs and other factors relating to foreign trade. in addition, the company's procurement of all its goods and services is subject to the effects of price increases which the company may or may not be able to pass through to its customers. all of these factors may affect the company's ability to access suitable merchandise on acceptable terms, are beyond the company's control and could adversely impact the company's performance. the company's sales and operating results could be adversely affected by product safety concerns. if the company's merchandise offerings do not meet applicable safety standards or our consumers' expectations regarding safety, the company could experience decreased sales, experience increased costs and/or be exposed to legal and reputational risk. events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns could expose the company to government enforcement action and/or private litigation. reputational damage caused by real or perceived product safety concerns could have a negative impact on the company's sales and operating results. the company depends upon the success of its advertising and marketing programs. the company's advertising and promotional costs, net of cooperative advertising allowances, amounted to $1,136 million for 2011. the company's business depends on high customer traffic in its stores and effective marketing. the company has many initiatives in this area, and often changes its advertising and marketing programs. there can be no assurance as to the company's continued ability to effectively execute its advertising and marketing programs, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. parties with whom the company does business may be subject to insolvency risks or may otherwise become unable or unwilling to perform their obligations to the company. the company is a party to contracts, transactions and business relationships with various third parties, including vendors, 6 table of contents suppliers, service providers, lenders and participants in joint ventures, strategic alliances and other joint commercial relationships, pursuant to which such third parties have performance, payment and other obligations to the company. in some cases, the company depends upon such third parties to provide essential leaseholds, products, services or other benefits, including with respect to store and distribution center locations, merchandise, advertising, software development and support, logistics, other agreements for goods and services in order to operate the company's business in the ordinary course, extensions of credit, credit card accounts and related receivables, and other vital matters. current economic, industry and market conditions could result in increased risks to the company associated with the potential financial distress or insolvency of such third parties. if any of these third parties were to become subject to bankruptcy, receivership or similar proceedings, the rights and benefits of the company in relation to its contracts, transactions and business relationships with such third parties could be terminated, modified in a manner adverse to the company, or otherwise impaired. the company cannot make any assurances that it would be able to arrange for alternate or replacement contracts, transactions or business relationships on terms as favorable as the company's existing contracts, transactions or business relationships, if at all. any inability on the part of the company to do so could negatively affect the company's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. a material disruption in the company's computer systems could adversely affect the company's business or results of operations. the company relies extensively on its computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage its business. the company's computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber-attack or other security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, acts of war or terrorism, and usage errors by the company's employees. if the company's computer systems are damaged or cease to function properly, the company may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and the company may suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in its operations in the interim. any material interruption in the company's computer systems could adversely affect its business or results of operations. a privacy breach could result in negative publicity and adversely affect the company's business or results of operations. the protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to the company. the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements across business units. in addition, customers have a high expectation that the company will adequately protect their personal information from cyber-attack or other security breaches. a significant breach of customer, employee, or company data could attract a substantial amount of media attention, damage the company's customer relationships and reputation and result in lost sales, fines, or lawsuits. a regional or global health pandemic could severely affect the company's business. a health pandemic is a disease that spreads rapidly and widely by infection and affects many individuals in an area or population at the same time. if a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its location, duration and severity, the company's business could be severely affected. customers might avoid public places in the event of a health pandemic, and local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or delay the spread of disease. a regional or global health pandemic might also adversely impact the company's business by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in its supply chain and by causing staffing shortages in its stores. the company is subject to numerous regulations that could adversely affect its business. the company is subject to customs, child labor, truth-in-advertising and other laws, including consumer protection regulations and zoning and occupancy ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities. although the company undertakes to monitor changes in these laws, if these laws change without the company's knowledge, or are violated by importers, designers, manufacturers or distributors, the company could experience delays in shipments and receipt of goods or be subject to fines or other penalties under the controlling regulations, any of which could adversely affect the company's business. litigation, legislation or regulatory developments could adversely affect the company's business, financial condition or results of operations. the company is subject to various federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations, inquiries and initiatives in connection with both its core business operations and its credit card and other ancillary operations (including the credit card act of 2009 and the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 (the dodd-frank act )). recent and future developments relating to such matters could increase the company's compliance costs and adversely affect the profitability of its credit card and other operations. in addition, the company is regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the 7 table of contents ordinary course of its business. adverse outcomes in current or future litigation could adversely affect the company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. factors beyond the company's control could affect the company's stock price. the company's stock price, like that of other retail companies, is subject to significant volatility because of many factors, including factors beyond the control of the company. these factors may include: general economic and stock and credit market conditions; risks relating to the company's business and its industry, including those discussed above; strategic actions by the company or its competitors; variations in the company's quarterly results of operations; future sales or purchases of the company's common stock; and investor perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with the company's common stock relative to other investment alternatives. in addition, the company may fail to meet the expectations of its stockholders or of analysts at some time in the future. if the analysts that regularly follow the company's stock lower their rating or lower their projections for future growth and financial performance, the company's stock price could decline. also, sales of a substantial number of shares of the company's common stock in the public market or the appearance that these shares are available for sale could adversely affect the market price of the company's common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that may adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in seeking to minimize the risks from interest rate fluctuations, the company manages exposures through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company does not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and is not a party to any leveraged financial instruments. the company is exposed to interest rate risk through its borrowing activities, which are described in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. the majority of the company's borrowings are under fixed rate instruments. however, the company, from time to time, may use interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to help manage its exposure to interest rate movements and reduce borrowing costs. at january 28, 2012 , the company was not a party to any derivative financial instruments and based on the company's lack of market risk sensitive instruments outstanding at january 28, 2012 , the company has determined that there was no material market risk exposure to the company's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of such date. 22 table of contentsrisk factors. in evaluating the company, the risks described below and the matters described in forward-looking statements should be considered carefully. such risks and matters are numerous and diverse, may be experienced continuously or intermittently, and may vary in intensity and effect. any of such risks and matters, individually or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as on the attractiveness and value of an investment in the company's securities. the company faces significant competition in the retail industry. the company conducts its retail merchandising business under highly competitive conditions. although the company is one of the nation's largest retailers, it has numerous and varied competitors at the national and local levels, including conventional and specialty department stores, other specialty stores, category killers, mass merchants, value retailers, discounters, and internet and mail-order retailers. competition may intensify as the company's competitors enter into business combinations or alliances. competition is characterized by many factors, including assortment, advertising, price, quality, service, location, reputation and credit availability. any failure by the company to compete effectively could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. the company's sales and operating results depend on consumer preferences and consumer spending. the fashion and retail industries are subject to sudden shifts in consumer trends and consumer spending. the company's sales and operating results depend in part on its ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. the company develops new retail concepts and continuously adjusts its industry position in certain major and private-label brands and product categories in an effort to satisfy customers. any sustained failure to anticipate, identify and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and consumer preferences could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. the company's sales are significantly affected by discretionary spending by consumers. consumer spending may be affected by many factors outside of the company's control, including general economic conditions, consumer disposable income levels, consumer confidence levels, the availability, cost and level of consumer debt and consumer behaviors towards incurring and paying debt, the costs of basic necessities and other goods and the effects of the weather or natural disasters. any decline in discretionary spending by consumers could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. the company's business is subject to unfavorable economic and political conditions and other developments and risks. unfavorable global, domestic or regional economic or political conditions and other developments and risks could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. for example, unfavorable changes related to interest rates, rates of economic growth, fiscal and monetary policies of governments, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, consumer debt payment behaviors, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, energy prices, and other matters that influence the availability and cost of merchandise, consumer confidence, spending and tourism could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. in addition, unstable political conditions, civil unrest, terrorist activities and armed conflicts may disrupt commerce and could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. the company's revenues and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of its business. the company's business is seasonal, with a high proportion of revenues and operating cash flows generated during the second half of the fiscal year, which includes the fall and holiday selling seasons. a disproportionate amount of the company's revenues fall in the fourth fiscal quarter, which coincides with the holiday season. in addition, the company incurs significant additional expenses in the period leading up to the months of november and december in anticipation of higher sales volume in those periods, including for additional inventory, advertising and employees. the company's business could be affected by extreme weather conditions, regional or global health pandemics or natural disasters. extreme weather conditions in the areas in which the company's stores are located could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. for example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rainstorms or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for the company's customers to travel to its stores and thereby reduce the company's sales and profitability. the company's business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. for example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could reduce demand for a portion of the company's inventory and thereby reduce the company's sales and profitability. 5 table of contents the company's business and results of operations could also be negatively affected if a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its location, duration and severity. to halt or delay the spread of disease, local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings or customers might avoid public places, such as the company's stores. a regional or global health pandemic might also result in disruption or delay of production and delivery of materials and products in the company's supply chain and cause staffing shortages in the company's stores. in addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes and earthquakes, or a combination of these or other factors, could damage or destroy the company's facilities or make it difficult for customers to travel to its stores, thereby negatively affecting the company's business and results of operations. the company's pension funding could increase at a higher than anticipated rate. significant changes in interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and investment losses on plan assets could affect the funded status of the company's plans and could increase future funding requirements of the pension plans. a significant increase in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on the company's cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. increases in the cost of employee benefits could impact the company's financial results and cash flow. the company's expenses relating to employee health benefits are significant. unfavorable changes in the cost of such benefits could negatively affect the company's financial results and cash flow. healthcare costs have risen significantly in recent years, and recent legislative and private sector initiatives regarding healthcare reform could result in significant changes to the u.s. healthcare system . due to the breadth and complexity of the healthcare reform legislation, the lack of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance and the phased-in nature of the implementation of the legislation, the company is not able at thi time to fully determine the impact that healthcare reform will have on the company-sponsored medical plans. inability to access capital markets could adversely affect the company's business or financial condition. changes in the credit and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate fluctuations, may increase the cost of financing or restrict the company's access to this potential source of future liquidity. a decrease in the ratings that rating agencies assign to the company's short and long-term debt may negatively impact the company's access to the debt capital markets and increase the company's cost of borrowing. in addition, the company's bank credit agreements require the company to maintain specified interest coverage and leverage ratios. the company's ability to comply with the ratios may be affected by events beyond its control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. if the company's results of operations or operating ratios deteriorate to a point where the company is not in compliance with its debt covenants, and the company is unable to obtain a waiver, much of the company's debt would be in default and could become due and payable immediately. the company's assets may not be sufficient to repay in full this indebtedness, resulting in a need for an alternate source of funding. the company cannot make any assurances that it would be able to obtain such an alternate source of funding on satisfactory terms, if at all, and its inability to do so could cause the holders of its securities to experience a partial or total loss of their investments in the company. the company periodically reviews the carrying value of its goodwill for possible impairment; if future circumstances indicate that goodwill is impaired, the company could be required to write down amounts of goodwill and record impairment charges. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the company reduced the carrying value of its goodwill from $9,125 million to $3,743 million and recorded a related non-cash impairment charge of $5,382 million. the company continues to monitor relevant circumstances, including consumer spending levels, general economic conditions and the market prices for the company's common stock, and the potential impact that such circumstances might have on the valuation of the company's goodwill. it is possible that changes in such circumstances, or in the numerous variables associated with the judgments, assumptions and estimates made by the company in assessing the appropriate valuation of its goodwill, could in the future require the company to further reduce its goodwill and record related non-cash impairment charges. if the company were required to further reduce its goodwill and record related non-cash impairment charges, the company's financial position and results of operations would be adversely affected. 6 table of contents the company depends on its ability to attract and retain quality employees. the company's business is dependent upon attracting and retaining quality employees. the company has a large number of employees, many of whom are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. the company's ability to meet its labor needs while controlling the costs associated with hiring and training new employees is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. in addition, as a large and complex enterprise operating in a highly competitive and challenging business environment, the company is highly dependent upon management personnel to develop and effectively execute successful business strategies and tactics. any circumstances that adversely impact the company's ability to attract, train, develop and retain quality employees throughout the organization could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. the company depends upon designers, vendors and other sources of merchandise, goods and services. the company's business could be affected by disruptions in, or other legal, regulatory, political or economic issues associated with, our supply network. the company's relationships with established and emerging designers have been a significant contributor to the company's past success. the company's ability to find qualified vendors and access products in a timely and efficient manner is often challenging, particularly with respect to goods sourced outside the united states. the company's procurement of goods and services from outside the united states is subject to risks associated with political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs and other factors relating to foreign trade, including costs and uncertainties associated with efforts to identify and disclose sources of "conflict minerals" used in products that the company causes to be manufactured and potential sell-through difficulties and reputational damage that may be associated with the inability of the company to determine that such products are "drc conflict-free." in addition, the company's procurement of all its goods and services is subject to the effects of price increases which the company may or may not be able to pass through to its customers. all of these factors may affect the company's ability to access suitable merchandise on acceptable terms, are beyond the company's control and could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. the company's sales and operating results could be adversely affected by product safety concerns. if the company's merchandise offerings do not meet applicable safety standards or our consumers' expectations regarding safety, the company could experience decreased sales, experience increased costs and/or be exposed to legal and reputational risk. events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns could expose the company to government enforcement action and/or private litigation. reputational damage caused by real or perceived product safety concerns could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. the company depends upon the success of its advertising and marketing programs. the company's advertising and promotional costs, net of cooperative advertising allowances, amounted to $1,181 million for 2012 . the company's business depends on effective marketing and high customer traffic. the company has many initiatives in this area, and often changes its advertising and marketing programs. there can be no assurance as to the company's continued ability to effectively execute its advertising and marketing programs, and any failure to do so could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. parties with whom the company does business may be subject to insolvency risks or may otherwise become unable or unwilling to perform their obligations to the company. the company is a party to contracts, transactions and business relationships with various third parties, including vendors, suppliers, service providers, lenders and participants in joint ventures, strategic alliances and other joint commercial relationships, pursuant to which such third parties have performance, payment and other obligations to the company. in some cases, the company depends upon such third parties to provide essential leaseholds, products, services or other benefits, including with respect to store and distribution center locations, merchandise, advertising, software development and support, logistics, other agreements for goods and services in order to operate the company's business in the ordinary course, extensions of credit, credit card accounts and related receivables, and other vital matters. current economic, industry and market conditions could result in increased risks to the company associated with the potential financial distress or insolvency of such third parties. if any of these third parties were to become subject to bankruptcy, receivership or similar proceedings, the rights and benefits of the company in relation to its contracts, transactions and business relationships with such third parties could be terminated, modified in a manner adverse to the company, or otherwise impaired. the company cannot make any assurances that it would be able to arrange for alternate or replacement contracts, transactions or business relationships on terms as favorable as the company's existing contracts, transactions or business relationships, if at all. any inability on the part of the company to do so could negatively affect the company's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. 7 table of contents a material disruption in the company's computer systems could adversely affect the company's business or results of operations. the company relies extensively on its computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage its business. the company's computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber-attack or other security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, acts of war or terrorism, and usage errors by the company's employees. if the company's computer systems are damaged or cease to function properly, the company may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and the company may suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in its operations. any material interruption in the company's computer systems could negatively affect its business and results of operations. a privacy breach could result in negative publicity and adversely affect the company's business or results of operations. the protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to the company. the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements across business units. in addition, customers have a high expectation that the company will adequately protect their personal information from cyber-attack or other security breaches. a significant breach of customer, employee, or company data could attract a substantial amount of media attention, damage the company's customer relationships and reputation and result in lost sales, fines, or lawsuits. litigation, legislation or regulatory developments could adversely affect the company's business and results of operations. the company is subject to various federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations, inquiries and initiatives in connection with both its core business operations and its credit card and other ancillary operations (including the credit card act of 2009 and the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 (the dodd-frank act )). recent and future developments relating to such matters could increase the company's compliance costs and adversely affect the profitability of its credit card and other operations. the company is also subject to customs, child labor, truth-in-advertising and other laws, including consumer protection regulations and zoning and occupancy ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities. although the company undertakes to monitor changes in these laws, if these laws change without the company's knowledge, or are violated by importers, designers, manufacturers or distributors, the company could experience delays in shipments and receipt of goods or be subject to fines or other penalties under the controlling regulations, any of which could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. in addition, the company is regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of its business. adverse outcomes in current or future litigation could negatively affect the company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. factors beyond the company's control could affect the company's stock price. the company's stock price, like that of other retail companies, is subject to significant volatility because of many factors, including factors beyond the control of the company. these factors may include: general economic and stock and credit market conditions; risks relating to the company's business and its industry, including those discussed above; strategic actions by the company or its competitors; variations in the company's quarterly results of operations; future sales or purchases of the company's common stock; and investor perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with the company's common stock relative to other investment alternatives. in addition, the company may fail to meet the expectations of its stockholders or of analysts at some time in the future. if the analysts that regularly follow the company's stock lower their rating or lower their projections for future growth and financial performance, the company's stock price could decline. also, sales of a substantial number of shares of the company's common stock in the public market or the appearance that these shares are available for sale could adversely affect the market price of the company's common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that may adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in seeking to minimize the risks from interest rate fluctuations, the company manages exposures through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company does not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and is not a party to any leveraged financial instruments. the company is exposed to interest rate risk through its borrowing activities, which are described in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. all of the company's borrowings are under fixed rate instruments. however, the company, from time to time, may use interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to help manage its exposure to interest rate movements and reduce borrowing costs. at february 2, 2013 , the company was not a party to any derivative financial instruments and based on the company's lack of market risk sensitive instruments outstanding at february 2, 2013 , the company has determined that there was no material market risk exposure to the company's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of such date.risk factors. in evaluating the company, the risks described below and the matters described in forward-looking statements should be considered carefully. such risks and matters are numerous and diverse, may be experienced continuously or intermittently, and may vary in intensity and effect. any of such risks and matters, individually or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as on the attractiveness and value of an investment in the company's securities. the company faces significant competition in the retail industry. the company conducts its retail merchandising business under highly competitive conditions. although the company is one of the nation's largest retailers, it has numerous and varied competitors at the national and local levels, including conventional and specialty department stores, other specialty stores, category killers, mass merchants, value retailers, discounters, and internet and mail-order retailers. competition may intensify as the company's competitors enter into business combinations or alliances. competition is characterized by many factors, including assortment, advertising, price, quality, service, location, reputation and credit availability. any failure by the company to compete effectively could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. the company's sales and operating results depend on consumer preferences and consumer spending. the fashion and retail industries are subject to sudden shifts in consumer trends and consumer spending. the company's sales and operating results depend in part on its ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. the company develops new retail concepts and continuously adjusts its industry position in certain major and private-label brands and product categories in an effort to satisfy customers. any sustained failure to anticipate, identify and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and consumer preferences could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. the company's sales are significantly affected by discretionary spending by consumers. consumer spending may be affected by many factors outside of the company's control, including general economic conditions, consumer disposable income levels, consumer confidence levels, the availability, cost and level of consumer debt and consumer behaviors towards incurring and paying debt, the costs of basic necessities and other goods and the effects of the weather or natural disasters. any decline in discretionary spending by consumers could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. the company's business is subject to unfavorable economic and political conditions and other developments and risks. unfavorable global, domestic or regional economic or political conditions and other developments and risks could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. for example, unfavorable changes related to interest rates, rates of economic growth, fiscal and monetary policies of governments, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, consumer debt payment behaviors, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, energy prices, and other matters that influence the availability and cost of merchandise, consumer confidence, spending and tourism could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. in addition, unstable political conditions, civil unrest, terrorist activities and armed conflicts may disrupt commerce and could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. the company's revenues and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of its business. the company's business is seasonal, with a high proportion of revenues and operating cash flows generated during the second half of the fiscal year, which includes the fall and holiday selling seasons. a disproportionate amount of the company's revenues fall in the fourth fiscal quarter, which coincides with the holiday season. in addition, the company incurs significant additional expenses in the period leading up to the months of november and december in anticipation of higher sales volume in those periods, including for additional inventory, advertising and employees. 5 table of contents the company's business could be affected by extreme weather conditions, regional or global health pandemics or natural disasters. extreme weather conditions in the areas in which the company's stores are located could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. for example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rainstorms or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for the company's customers to travel to its stores and thereby reduce the company's sales and profitability. the company's business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. for example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could reduce demand for a portion of the company's inventory and thereby reduce the company's sales and profitability. in addition, extreme weather conditions could result in disruption or delay of production and delivery of materials and products in the company's supply chain and cause staffing shortages in the company's stores. the company's business and results of operations could also be negatively affected if a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its location, duration and severity. to halt or delay the spread of disease, local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings or customers might avoid public places, such as the company's stores. a regional or global health pandemic might also result in disruption or delay of production and delivery of materials and products in the company's supply chain and cause staffing shortages in the company's stores. in addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes and earthquakes, or a combination of these or other factors, could damage or destroy the company's facilities or make it difficult for customers to travel to its stores, thereby negatively affecting the company's business and results of operations. the company's pension funding could increase at a higher than anticipated rate. significant changes in interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and investment losses on plan assets could affect the funded status of the company's plans and could increase future funding requirements of the pension plans. a significant increase in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on the company's cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. increases in the cost of employee benefits could impact the company's financial results and cash flow. the company's expenses relating to employee health benefits are significant. unfavorable changes in the cost of such benefits could negatively affect the company's financial results and cash flow. healthcare costs have risen significantly in recent years, and recent legislative and private sector initiatives regarding healthcare reform could result in significant changes to the u.s. healthcare system. due to the breadth and complexity of the healthcare reform legislation, the lack of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance and the phased-in nature of the implementation of the legislation, the company is not able at this time to fully determine the impact that healthcare reform will have on the company-sponsored medical plans. inability to access capital markets could adversely affect the company's business or financial condition. changes in the credit and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate fluctuations, may increase the cost of financing or restrict the company's access to this potential source of future liquidity. a decrease in the ratings that rating agencies assign to the company's short and long-term debt may negatively impact the company's access to the debt capital markets and increase the company's cost of borrowing. in addition, the company's bank credit agreements require the company to maintain specified interest coverage and leverage ratios. the company's ability to comply with the ratios may be affected by events beyond its control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. if the company's results of operations or operating ratios deteriorate to a point where the company is not in compliance with its debt covenants, and the company is unable to obtain a waiver, much of the company's debt would be in default and could become due and payable immediately. the company's assets may not be sufficient to repay in full this indebtedness, resulting in a need for an alternate source of funding. the company cannot make any assurances that it would be able to obtain such an alternate source of funding on satisfactory terms, if at all, and its inability to do so could cause the holders of its securities to experience a partial or total loss of their investments in the company. 6 table of contents the company periodically reviews the carrying value of its goodwill for possible impairment; if future circumstances indicate that goodwill is impaired, the company could be required to write down amounts of goodwill and record impairment charges. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the company reduced the carrying value of its goodwill from $9,125 million to $3,743 million and recorded a related non-cash impairment charge of $5,382 million. the company continues to monitor relevant circumstances, including consumer spending levels, general economic conditions and the market prices for the company's common stock, and the potential impact that such circumstances might have on the valuation of the company's goodwill. it is possible that changes in such circumstances, or in the numerous variables associated with the judgments, assumptions and estimates made by the company in assessing the appropriate valuation of its goodwill, could in the future require the company to further reduce its goodwill and record related non-cash impairment charges. if the company were required to further reduce its goodwill and record related non-cash impairment charges, the company's financial position and results of operations would be adversely affected. the company depends on its ability to attract and retain quality employees. the company's business is dependent upon attracting and retaining quality employees. the company has a large number of employees, many of whom are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. the company's ability to meet its labor needs while controlling the costs associated with hiring and training new employees is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. in addition, as a large and complex enterprise operating in a highly competitive and challenging business environment, the company is highly dependent upon management personnel to develop and effectively execute successful business strategies and tactics. any circumstances that adversely impact the company's ability to attract, train, develop and retain quality employees throughout the organization could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. the company depends upon designers, vendors and other sources of merchandise, goods and services. the company's business could be affected by disruptions in, or other legal, regulatory, political or economic issues associated with, our supply network. the company's relationships with established and emerging designers have been a significant contributor to the company's past success. the company's ability to find qualified vendors and access products in a timely and efficient manner is often challenging, particularly with respect to goods sourced outside the united states. the company's procurement of goods and services from outside the united states is subject to risks associated with political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs and other factors relating to foreign trade, including costs and uncertainties associated with efforts to identify and disclose sources of "conflict minerals" used in products that the company causes to be manufactured and potential sell-through difficulties and reputational damage that may be associated with the inability of the company to determine that such products are "drc conflict-free." in addition, the company's procurement of all its goods and services is subject to the effects of price increases which the company may or may not be able to pass through to its customers. all of these factors may affect the company's ability to access suitable merchandise on acceptable terms, are beyond the company's control and could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. the company's sales and operating results could be adversely affected by product safety concerns. if the company's merchandise offerings do not meet applicable safety standards or our consumers' expectations regarding safety, the company could experience decreased sales, experience increased costs and/or be exposed to legal and reputational risk. events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns could expose the company to government enforcement action and/or private litigation. reputational damage caused by real or perceived product safety concerns could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. the company depends upon the success of its advertising and marketing programs. the company's advertising and promotional costs, net of cooperative advertising allowances, amounted to $1,166 million for 2013 . the company's business depends on effective marketing and high customer traffic. the company has many initiatives in this area, and often changes its advertising and marketing programs. there can be no assurance as to the company's continued ability to effectively execute its advertising and marketing programs, and any failure to do so could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. 7 table of contents parties with whom the company does business may be subject to insolvency risks or may otherwise become unable or unwilling to perform their obligations to the company. the company is a party to contracts, transactions and business relationships with various third parties, including vendors, suppliers, service providers, lenders and participants in joint ventures, strategic alliances and other joint commercial relationships, pursuant to which such third parties have performance, payment and other obligations to the company. in some cases, the company depends upon such third parties to provide essential leaseholds, products, services or other benefits, including with respect to store and distribution center locations, merchandise, advertising, software development and support, logistics, other agreements for goods and services in order to operate the company's business in the ordinary course, extensions of credit, credit card accounts and related receivables, and other vital matters. current economic, industry and market conditions could result in increased risks to the company associated with the potential financial distress or insolvency of such third parties. if any of these third parties were to become subject to bankruptcy, receivership or similar proceedings, the rights and benefits of the company in relation to its contracts, transactions and business relationships with such third parties could be terminated, modified in a manner adverse to the company, or otherwise impaired. the company cannot make any assurances that it would be able to arrange for alternate or replacement contracts, transactions or business relationships on terms as favorable as the company's existing contracts, transactions or business relationships, if at all. any inability on the part of the company to do so could negatively affect the company's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. a material disruption in the company's computer systems could adversely affect the company's business or results of operations. the company relies extensively on its computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage its business. the company's computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber-attack or other security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, acts of war or terrorism, and usage errors by the company's employees. if the company's computer systems are damaged or cease to function properly, the company may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and the company may suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in its operations. any material interruption in the company's computer systems could negatively affect its business and results of operations. a privacy breach could result in negative publicity and adversely affect the company's business or results of operations. the protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to the company. the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements across business units. in addition, customers have a high expectation that the company will adequately protect their personal information from cyber-attack or other security breaches. a significant breach of customer, employee, or company data could attract a substantial amount of media attention, damage the company's customer relationships and reputation and result in lost sales, fines, or lawsuits. litigation, legislation or regulatory developments could adversely affect the company's business and results of operations. the company is subject to various federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations, inquiries and initiatives in connection with both its core business operations and its credit card and other ancillary operations (including the credit card act of 2009 and the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 (the dodd-frank act )). recent and future developments relating to such matters could increase the company's compliance costs and adversely affect the profitability of its credit card and other operations. the company is also subject to anti-bribery, customs, child labor, truth-in-advertising and other laws, including consumer protection regulations and zoning and occupancy ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities. although the company undertakes to monitor changes in these laws, if these laws change without the company's knowledge, or are violated by importers, designers, manufacturers, distributors or agents, the company could experience delays in shipments and receipt of goods or be subject to fines or other penalties under the controlling regulations, any of which could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. in addition, the company is regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of its business. adverse outcomes in current or future litigation could negatively affect the company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 8 table of contents factors beyond the company's control could affect the company's stock price. the company's stock price, like that of other retail companies, is subject to significant volatility because of many factors, including factors beyond the control of the company. these factors may include: general economic and stock and credit market conditions; risks relating to the company's business and its industry, including those discussed above; strategic actions by the company or its competitors; variations in the company's quarterly results of operations; future sales or purchases of the company's common stock; and investor perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with the company's common stock relative to other investment alternatives. in addition, the company may fail to meet the expectations of its stockholders or of analysts at some time in the future. if the analysts that regularly follow the company's stock lower their rating or lower their projections for future growth and financial performance, the company's stock price could decline. also, sales of a substantial number of shares of the company's common stock in the public market or the appearance that these shares are available for sale could adversely affect the market price of the company's common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that may adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in seeking to minimize the risks from interest rate fluctuations, the company manages exposures through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company does not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and is not a party to any leveraged financial instruments. the company is exposed to interest rate risk through its borrowing activities, which are described in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. all of the company's borrowings are under fixed rate instruments. however, the company, from time to time, may use interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to help manage its exposure to interest rate movements and reduce borrowing costs. at february 1, 2014 , the company was not a party to any derivative financial instruments and based on the company's lack of market risk sensitive instruments outstanding at february 1, 2014 , the company has determined that there was no material market risk exposure to the company's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of such date.risk factors. in evaluating the company, the risks described below and the matters described in forward-looking statements should be considered carefully. such risks and matters are numerous and diverse, may be experienced continuously or intermittently, and may vary in intensity and effect. any of such risks and matters, individually or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as on the attractiveness and value of an investment in the company's securities. the company faces significant competition in the retail industry. the company conducts its retail merchandising business under highly competitive conditions. although the company is one of the nation's largest retailers, it has numerous and varied competitors at the national and local levels, including department stores, specialty stores, general merchandise stores, off-price and discount stores, manufacturers' outlets, online retailers, mail order catalogs and television shopping, among others. competition may intensify as the company's competitors enter into business combinations or alliances. competition is characterized by many factors, including assortment, advertising, price, quality, service, location, reputation and credit availability. any failure by the company to compete effectively could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. the company's sales and operating results depend on consumer preferences and consumer spending. the fashion and retail industries are subject to sudden shifts in consumer trends and consumer spending. the company's sales and operating results depend in part on its ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. the company develops new retail concepts and continuously adjusts its industry position in certain major and private-label brands and product categories in an effort to satisfy customers. any sustained failure to anticipate, identify and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and consumer preferences could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. the company's sales are significantly affected by discretionary spending by consumers. consumer spending may be affected by many factors outside of the company's control, including general economic conditions, consumer disposable income levels, consumer confidence levels, the availability, cost and level of consumer debt and consumer behaviors towards incurring and paying debt, the costs of basic necessities and other goods and the effects of the weather or natural disasters. any decline in discretionary spending by consumers could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. the company's business is subject to unfavorable economic and political conditions and other developments and risks. unfavorable global, domestic or regional economic or political conditions and other developments and risks could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. for example, unfavorable changes related to interest rates, rates of economic growth, fiscal and monetary policies of governments, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, consumer debt payment behaviors, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, energy prices, and other matters that influence the availability and cost of merchandise, consumer confidence, spending and tourism could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. in addition, unstable political conditions, civil unrest, terrorist activities and armed conflicts may disrupt commerce and could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. 5 the company's revenues and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of its business. the company's business is seasonal, with a high proportion of revenues and operating cash flows generated during the second half of the fiscal year, which includes the fall and holiday selling seasons. a disproportionate amount of the company's revenues fall in the fourth fiscal quarter, which coincides with the holiday season. in addition, the company incurs significant additional expenses in the period leading up to the months of november and december in anticipation of higher sales volume in those periods, including for additional inventory, advertising and employees. the company's business could be affected by extreme weather conditions, regional or global health pandemics or natural disasters. extreme weather conditions in the areas in which the company's stores are located could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. for example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rainstorms or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for the company's customers to travel to its stores and thereby reduce the company's sales and profitability. the company's business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. for example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could reduce demand for a portion of the company's inventory and thereby reduce the company's sales and profitability. in addition, extreme weather conditions could result in disruption or delay of production and delivery of materials and products in the company's supply chain and cause staffing shortages in the company's stores. the company's business and results of operations could also be negatively affected if a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its location, duration and severity. to halt or delay the spread of disease, local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings or customers might avoid public places, such as the company's stores. a regional or global health pandemic might also result in disruption or delay of production and delivery of materials and products in the company's supply chain and cause staffing shortages in the company's stores. in addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes and earthquakes, or a combination of these or other factors, could damage or destroy the company's facilities or make it difficult for customers to travel to its stores, thereby negatively affecting the company's business and results of operations. the company's pension funding could increase at a higher than anticipated rate. significant changes in interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and investment losses on plan assets could affect the funded status of the company's plans and could increase future funding requirements of the pension plans. a significant increase in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on the company's cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. increases in the cost of employee benefits could impact the company's financial results and cash flow. the company's expenses relating to employee health benefits are significant. unfavorable changes in the cost of such benefits could negatively affect the company's financial results and cash flow. healthcare costs have risen significantly in recent years, and recent legislative and private sector initiatives regarding healthcare reform have resulted and could continue to result in significant changes to the u.s. healthcare system. due to the breadth and complexity of the healthcare reform legislation, the lack of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance and the phased-in nature of the implementation of the legislation, the company is not able at this time to fully determine the impact that healthcare reform will have on the company-sponsored medical plans. 6 inability to access capital markets could adversely affect the company's business or financial condition. changes in the credit and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate fluctuations, may increase the cost of financing or restrict the company's access to this potential source of future liquidity. a decrease in the ratings that rating agencies assign to the company's short and long-term debt may negatively impact the company's access to the debt capital markets and increase the company's cost of borrowing. in addition, the company's bank credit agreements require the company to maintain specified interest coverage and leverage ratios. the company's ability to comply with the ratios may be affected by events beyond its control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. if the company's results of operations or operating ratios deteriorate to a point where the company is not in compliance with its debt covenants, and the company is unable to obtain a waiver, much of the company's debt would be in default and could become due and payable immediately. the company's assets may not be sufficient to repay in full this indebtedness, resulting in a need for an alternate source of funding. the company cannot make any assurances that it would be able to obtain such an alternate source of funding on satisfactory terms, if at all, and its inability to do so could cause the holders of its securities to experience a partial or total loss of their investments in the company. the company depends on its ability to attract and retain quality employees. the company's business is dependent upon attracting and retaining quality employees. the company has a large number of employees, many of whom are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. the company's ability to meet its labor needs while controlling the costs associated with hiring and training new employees is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. in addition, as a large and complex enterprise operating in a highly competitive and challenging business environment, the company is highly dependent upon management personnel to develop and effectively execute successful business strategies and tactics. any circumstances that adversely impact the company's ability to attract, train, develop and retain quality employees throughout the organization could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. the company depends upon designers, vendors and other sources of merchandise, goods and services. the company's business could be affected by disruptions in, or other legal, regulatory, political or economic issues associated with, our supply network. the company's relationships with established and emerging designers have been a significant contributor to the company's past success. the company's ability to find qualified vendors and access products in a timely and efficient manner is often challenging, particularly with respect to goods sourced outside the united states. the company's procurement of goods and services from outside the united states is subject to risks associated with political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs and other factors relating to foreign trade, including costs and uncertainties associated with efforts to identify and disclose sources of "conflict minerals" used in products that the company causes to be manufactured and potential sell-through difficulties and reputational damage that may be associated with the inability of the company to determine that such products are "drc conflict-free." in addition, the company's procurement of all its goods and services is subject to the effects of price increases which the company may or may not be able to pass through to its customers. all of these factors may affect the company's ability to access suitable merchandise on acceptable terms, are beyond the company's control and could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. the company's sales and operating results could be adversely affected by product safety concerns. if the company's merchandise offerings do not meet applicable safety standards or our consumers' expectations regarding safety, the company could experience decreased sales, experience increased costs and/or be exposed to legal and reputational risk. events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns could expose the company to government enforcement action and/or private litigation. reputational damage caused by real or perceived product safety concerns could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. the company depends upon the success of its advertising and marketing programs. the company's business depends on effective marketing and high customer traffic. the company has many initiatives in this area, and often changes its advertising and marketing programs. there can be no assurance as to the company's continued ability to effectively execute its advertising and marketing programs, and any failure to do so could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. 7 parties with whom the company does business may be subject to insolvency risks or may otherwise become unable or unwilling to perform their obligations to the company. the company is a party to contracts, transactions and business relationships with various third parties, including, without limitation, vendors, suppliers, service providers, lenders and participants in joint ventures, strategic alliances and other joint commercial relationships, pursuant to which such third parties have performance, payment and other obligations to the company. in some cases, the company depends upon such third parties to provide essential leaseholds, products, services or other benefits, including with respect to store and distribution center locations, merchandise, advertising, software development and support, logistics, other agreements for goods and services in order to operate the company's business in the ordinary course, extensions of credit, credit card accounts and related receivables, and other vital matters. current economic, industry and market conditions could result in increased risks to the company associated with the potential financial distress or insolvency of such third parties. if any of these third parties were to become subject to bankruptcy, receivership or similar proceedings, the rights and benefits of the company in relation to its contracts, transactions and business relationships with such third parties could be terminated, modified in a manner adverse to the company, or otherwise impaired. the company cannot make any assurances that it would be able to arrange for alternate or replacement contracts, transactions or business relationships on terms as favorable as the company's existing contracts, transactions or business relationships, if at all. any inability on the part of the company to do so could negatively affect the company's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. a material disruption in the company's computer systems could adversely affect the company's business or results of operations. the company relies extensively on its computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage its business. the company's computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber-attack or other security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, acts of war or terrorism, and usage errors by the company's employees. if the company's computer systems are damaged or cease to function properly, the company may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and the company may suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in its operations. any material interruption in the company's computer systems could negatively affect its business and results of operations. a privacy breach could result in negative publicity and adversely affect the company's business or results of operations. the protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to the company. the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements across business units. in addition, customers have a high expectation that the company will adequately protect their personal information from cyber-attack or other security breaches. a significant breach of customer, employee, or company data could attract a substantial amount of media attention, damage the company's customer relationships and reputation and result in lost sales, fines or lawsuits. litigation, legislation or regulatory developments could adversely affect the company's business and results of operations. the company is subject to various federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations, inquiries and initiatives in connection with both its core business operations and its credit card and other ancillary operations (including the credit card act of 2009 and the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 (the dodd-frank act )). recent and future developments relating to such matters could increase the company's compliance costs and adversely affect the profitability of its credit card and other operations. the company is also subject to anti-bribery, customs, child labor, truth-in-advertising and other laws, including consumer protection regulations and zoning and occupancy ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities. although the company undertakes to monitor changes in these laws, if these laws change without the company's knowledge, or are violated by importers, designers, manufacturers, distributors or agents, the company could experience delays in shipments and receipt of goods or be subject to fines or other penalties under the controlling regulations, any of which could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. in addition, the company is regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of its business. adverse outcomes in current or future litigation could negatively affect the company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 8 factors beyond the company's control could affect the company's stock price. the company's stock price, like that of other retail companies, is subject to significant volatility because of many factors, including factors beyond the control of the company. these factors may include: general economic and stock and credit market conditions; risks relating to the company's business and its industry, including those discussed above; strategic actions by the company or its competitors; variations in the company's quarterly results of operations; future sales or purchases of the company's common stock; and investor perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with the company's common stock relative to other investment alternatives. in addition, the company may fail to meet the expectations of its stockholders or of analysts at some time in the future. if the analysts that regularly follow the company's stock lower their rating or lower their projections for future growth and financial performance, the company's stock price could decline. also, sales of a substantial number of shares of the company's common stock in the public market or the appearance that these shares are available for sale could adversely affect the market price of the company's common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that may adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in seeking to minimize the risks from interest rate fluctuations, the company manages exposures through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company does not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and is not a party to any leveraged financial instruments. the company is exposed to interest rate risk through its borrowing activities, which are described in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. all of the company's borrowings are under fixed rate instruments. however, the company, from time to time, may use interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to help manage its exposure to interest rate movements and reduce borrowing costs. at january 31, 2015 , the company was not a party to any derivative financial instruments and based on the company's lack of market risk sensitive instruments outstanding at january 31, 2015 , the company has determined that there was no material market risk exposure to the company's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of such date.risk factors. in evaluating the company, the risks described below and the matters described in forward-looking statements should be considered carefully. such risks and matters are numerous and diverse, may be experienced continuously or intermittently, and may vary in intensity and effect. any of such risks and matters, individually or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as on the attractiveness and value of an investment in the company's securities. the company faces significant competition in the retail industry. the company conducts its retail merchandising business under highly competitive conditions. although the company is one of the nation's largest retailers, it has numerous and varied competitors at the national and local levels, including department stores, specialty stores, general merchandise stores, off-price and discount stores, manufacturers' outlets, online retailers, catalogs and television shopping, among others. competition may intensify as the company's competitors enter into business combinations or alliances. competition is characterized by many factors, including assortment, advertising, price, quality, service, location, reputation and credit availability. any failure by the company to compete effectively could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. the company's sales and operating results depend on consumer preferences and consumer spending. the fashion and retail industries are subject to sudden shifts in consumer trends and consumer spending. the company's sales and operating results depend in part on its ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. the company develops new retail concepts and continuously adjusts its industry position in certain major and private-label brands and product categories in an effort to satisfy customers. any sustained failure to anticipate, identify and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and consumer preferences could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. the company's sales are significantly affected by discretionary spending by consumers. consumer spending may be affected by many factors outside of the company's control, including general economic conditions, consumer disposable income levels, consumer confidence levels, the availability, cost and level of consumer debt and consumer behaviors towards incurring and paying debt, the costs of basic necessities and other goods, the strength of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies and the effects of the weather or natural disasters. any decline in discretionary spending by consumers could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. 5 the company's business is subject to unfavorable economic and political conditions and other developments and risks. unfavorable global, domestic or regional economic or political conditions and other developments and risks could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. for example, unfavorable changes related to interest rates, rates of economic growth, fiscal and monetary policies of governments, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, consumer debt payment behaviors, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, energy prices, and other matters that influence the availability and cost of merchandise, consumer confidence, spending and tourism could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. in addition, unstable political conditions, civil unrest, terrorist activities and armed conflicts may disrupt commerce and could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. the company's revenues and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of its business. the company's business is seasonal, with a high proportion of revenues and operating cash flows generated during the second half of the year, which includes the fall and holiday selling seasons. a disproportionate amount of the company's revenues fall in the fourth quarter, which coincides with the holiday season. in addition, the company incurs significant additional expenses in the period leading up to the months of november and december in anticipation of higher sales volume in those periods, including for additional inventory, advertising and employees. the company's business could be affected by extreme weather conditions, regional or global health pandemics or natural disasters. extreme weather conditions in the areas in which the company's stores are located could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. for example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rainstorms or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for the company's customers to travel to its stores and thereby reduce the company's sales and profitability. the company's business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. for example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could reduce demand for a portion of the company's inventory and thereby reduce the company's sales and profitability. in addition, extreme weather conditions could result in disruption or delay of production and delivery of materials and products in the company's supply chain and cause staffing shortages in the company's stores. the company's business and results of operations could also be negatively affected if a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its location, duration and severity. to halt or delay the spread of disease, local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings or customers might avoid public places, such as the company's stores. a regional or global health pandemic might also result in disruption or delay of production and delivery of materials and products in the company's supply chain and cause staffing shortages in the company's stores. in addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes and earthquakes, or a combination of these or other factors, could damage or destroy the company's facilities or make it difficult for customers to travel to its stores, thereby negatively affecting the company's business and results of operations. the company's defined benefit plan funding requirements or plan settlement expense could impact the company's financial results and cash flow. significant changes in interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and benefit payments could affect the funded status of the company's plans and could increase future funding requirements of the plans. a significant increase in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on the company's cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. at january 30, 2016 , the company had unrecognized actuarial losses of $1,451 million for the funded defined benefit pension plan (the pension plan ) and $261 million for the unfunded defined benefit supplementary retirement plan (the serp ). these plans allow eligible retiring employees to receive lump sum distributions of benefits earned. under applicable accounting rules, if annual lump sum distributions exceed an actuarially determined threshold of the total of the annual service and interest costs, the company would be required to recognize in the current period of operations a settlement expense of a portion of the unrecognized actuarial loss and could have a negative impact on the company's results of operations. 6 increases in the cost of employee benefits could impact the company's financial results and cash flow. the company's expenses relating to employee health benefits are significant. unfavorable changes in the cost of such benefits could negatively affect the company's financial results and cash flow. healthcare costs have risen significantly in recent years, and recent legislative and private sector initiatives regarding healthcare reform have resulted and could continue to result in significant changes to the u.s. healthcare system. due to the breadth and complexity of the healthcare reform legislation, the lack of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance and the phased-in nature of the implementation of the legislation, the company is not able at this time to fully determine the impact that healthcare reform will have on the company-sponsored medical plans. inability to access capital markets could adversely affect the company's business or financial condition. changes in the credit and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate fluctuations, may increase the cost of financing or restrict the company's access to this potential source of future liquidity. a decrease in the ratings that rating agencies assign to the company's short and long-term debt may negatively impact the company's access to the debt capital markets and increase the company's cost of borrowing. in addition, the company's bank credit agreements require the company to maintain specified interest coverage and leverage ratios. the company's ability to comply with the ratios may be affected by events beyond its control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. if the company's results of operations or operating ratios deteriorate to a point where the company is not in compliance with its debt covenants, and the company is unable to obtain a waiver, much of the company's debt would be in default and could become due and payable immediately. the company's assets may not be sufficient to repay in full this indebtedness, resulting in a need for an alternate source of funding. the company cannot make any assurances that it would be able to obtain such an alternate source of funding on satisfactory terms, if at all, and its inability to do so could cause the holders of its securities to experience a partial or total loss of their investments in the company. the company depends on its ability to attract and retain quality employees. the company's business is dependent upon attracting and retaining quality employees. the company has a large number of employees, many of whom are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. the company's ability to meet its labor needs while controlling the costs associated with hiring and training new employees is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. in addition, as a large and complex enterprise operating in a highly competitive and challenging business environment, the company is highly dependent upon management personnel to develop and effectively execute successful business strategies and tactics. any circumstances that adversely impact the company's ability to attract, train, develop and retain quality employees throughout the organization could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. the company depends upon designers, vendors and other sources of merchandise, goods and services. the company's business could be affected by disruptions in, or other legal, regulatory, political or economic issues associated with, our supply network. the company's relationships with established and emerging designers have been a significant contributor to the company's past success. the company's ability to find qualified vendors and access products in a timely and efficient manner is often challenging, particularly with respect to goods sourced outside the united states. the company's procurement of goods and services from outside the united states is subject to risks associated with political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs and other factors relating to foreign trade, including costs and uncertainties associated with efforts to identify and disclose sources of "conflict minerals" used in products that the company causes to be manufactured and potential sell-through difficulties and reputational damage that may be associated with the inability of the company to determine that such products are "drc conflict-free." in addition, the company's procurement of all its goods and services is subject to the effects of price increases which the company may or may not be able to pass through to its customers. all of these factors may affect the company's ability to access suitable merchandise on acceptable terms, are beyond the company's control and could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. 7 the company's sales and operating results could be adversely affected by product safety concerns. if the company's merchandise offerings do not meet applicable safety standards or our consumers' expectations regarding safety, the company could experience decreased sales, experience increased costs and/or be exposed to legal and reputational risk. events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns could expose the company to government enforcement action and/or private litigation. reputational damage caused by real or perceived product safety concerns could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. the company depends upon the success of its advertising and marketing programs. the company's business depends on effective marketing and high customer traffic. the company has many initiatives in this area, and often changes its advertising and marketing programs. there can be no assurance as to the company's continued ability to effectively execute its advertising and marketing programs, and any failure to do so could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. parties with whom the company does business may be subject to insolvency risks or may otherwise become unable or unwilling to perform their obligations to the company. the company is a party to contracts, transactions and business relationships with various third parties, including, without limitation, vendors, suppliers, service providers, lenders and participants in joint ventures, strategic alliances and other joint commercial relationships, pursuant to which such third parties have performance, payment and other obligations to the company. in some cases, the company depends upon such third parties to provide essential leaseholds, products, services or other benefits, including with respect to store and distribution center locations, merchandise, advertising, software development and support, logistics, other agreements for goods and services in order to operate the company's business in the ordinary course, extensions of credit, credit card accounts and related receivables, and other vital matters. current economic, industry and market conditions could result in increased risks to the company associated with the potential financial distress or insolvency of such third parties. if any of these third parties were to become subject to bankruptcy, receivership or similar proceedings, the rights and benefits of the company in relation to its contracts, transactions and business relationships with such third parties could be terminated, modified in a manner adverse to the company, or otherwise impaired. the company cannot make any assurances that it would be able to arrange for alternate or replacement contracts, transactions or business relationships on terms as favorable as the company's existing contracts, transactions or business relationships, if at all. any inability on the part of the company to do so could negatively affect the company's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. a material disruption in the company's computer systems could adversely affect the company's business or results of operations. the company relies extensively on its computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage its business. the company's computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber-attack or other security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, acts of war or terrorism, and usage errors by the company's employees. if the company's computer systems are damaged or cease to function properly, the company may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and the company may suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in its operations. any material interruption in the company's computer systems could negatively affect its business and results of operations. a data breach could result in negative publicity and adversely affect the company's business or results of operations. the protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to the company. the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements across business units. in addition, customers have a high expectation that the company will adequately protect their personal information from cyber-attack or other security breaches. a significant breach of customer, employee, or company data could attract a substantial amount of media attention, damage the company's customer relationships and reputation and result in lost sales, fines or lawsuits. 8 litigation, legislation or regulatory developments could adversely affect the company's business and results of operations. the company is subject to various federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations, inquiries and initiatives in connection with both its core business operations and its credit card and other ancillary operations (including the credit card act of 2009 and the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 (the dodd-frank act )). recent and future developments relating to such matters could increase the company's compliance costs and adversely affect the profitability of its credit card and other operations. the company is also subject to anti-bribery, customs, child labor, truth-in-advertising and other laws, including consumer protection regulations and zoning and occupancy ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities. although the company undertakes to monitor changes in these laws, if these laws change without the company's knowledge, or are violated by importers, designers, manufacturers, distributors or agents, the company could experience delays in shipments and receipt of goods or be subject to fines or other penalties under the controlling regulations, any of which could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. in addition, the company is regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of its business. adverse outcomes in current or future litigation could negatively affect the company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. factors beyond the company's control could affect the company's stock price. the company's stock price, like that of other retail companies, is subject to significant volatility because of many factors, including factors beyond the control of the company. these factors may include: general economic, stock, credit and real estate market conditions; risks relating to the company's business and its industry, including those discussed above; strategic actions by the company or its competitors; variations in the company's quarterly results of operations; future sales or purchases of the company's common stock; and investor perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with the company's common stock relative to other investment alternatives. in addition, the company may fail to meet the expectations of its stockholders or of analysts at some time in the future. if the analysts that regularly follow the company's stock lower their rating or lower their projections for future growth and financial performance, the company's stock price could decline. also, sales of a substantial number of shares of the company's common stock in the public market or the appearance that these shares are available for sale could adversely affect the market price of the company's common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that may adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in seeking to minimize the risks from interest rate fluctuations, the company manages exposures through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company does not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and is not a party to any leveraged financial instruments. the company is exposed to interest rate risk through its borrowing activities, which are described in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. all of the company's borrowings are under fixed rate instruments. however, the company, from time to time, may use interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to help manage its exposure to interest rate movements and reduce borrowing costs. at january 30, 2016 , the company was not a party to any derivative financial instruments and based on the company's lack of market risk sensitive instruments outstanding at january 30, 2016 , the company has determined that there was no material market risk exposure to the company's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of such date.risk factors. in evaluating the company, the risks described below and the matters described in forward-looking statements should be considered carefully. such risks and matters are numerous and diverse, may be experienced continuously or intermittently, and may vary in intensity and effect. any of such risks and matters, individually or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as on the attractiveness and value of an investment in the company's securities. the company faces significant competition in the retail industry and depends on its ability to differentiate itself in retail's ever-changing environment. the company conducts its retail merchandising business under highly competitive conditions. although the company is one of the nation's largest retailers, it has numerous and varied competitors at the national and local levels, including department stores, specialty stores, general merchandise stores, off-price and discount stores, manufacturers' outlets, online retailers, catalogs and television shopping, among others. competition may intensify as the company's competitors enter into business combinations or alliances. competition is characterized by many factors, including assortment, advertising, price, quality, service, location, reputation and credit availability. any failure by the company to compete effectively could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. as consumers continue to migrate online, the company faces pressures to not only compete from a price perspective with its competitors, some of whom sell the same products, but also must differentiate itself to stay relevant in retail's ever-changing industry. the company continues to significantly invest in its omnichannel capabilities in order to provide a seamless shopping experience to its customers between the company's brick and mortar locations and its online and mobile environments. insufficient, untimely or misguided investments in this area could significantly impact the company's profitability and growth and affect the company's ability to attract new customers as well as maintain its existing ones. the company's sales and operating results depend on consumer preferences and consumer spending. the fashion and retail industries are subject to sudden shifts in consumer trends and consumer spending. the company's sales and operating results depend in part on its ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. the company develops new retail concepts and continuously adjusts its industry position in certain major and private-label brands and product categories in an effort to satisfy customers. any sustained failure to anticipate, identify and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and consumer preferences could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. the company's sales are significantly affected by discretionary spending by consumers. consumer spending may be affected by many factors outside of the company's control, including general economic conditions, consumer disposable income levels, consumer confidence levels, the availability, cost and level of consumer debt and consumer behaviors towards incurring and paying debt, the costs of basic necessities and other goods, the strength of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies and the effects of the weather or natural disasters. any decline in discretionary spending by consumers could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. 6 as the company relies on the ability of its physical retail locations to remain relevant, providing desirable and sought-out shopping experiences is paramount to the company's financial success. changes in consumer shopping habits, financial difficulties at other anchor tenants, significant mall vacancy issues, mall violence and new mall developments could each adversely impact the traffic at current retail locations and lead to a decline in the company's financial condition or performance. the company's business is subject to unfavorable economic and political conditions and other related risks. unfavorable global, domestic or regional economic or political conditions and other developments and risks could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. for example, unfavorable changes related to interest rates, rates of economic growth, fiscal and monetary policies of governments, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, consumer debt payment behaviors, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, energy prices, and other matters that influence the availability and cost of merchandise, consumer confidence, spending and tourism could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. these same conditions and related risks could affect the success of the company's credit card program. following the sale of most of the company's credit accounts and related receivables to citibank, the company shares in the economic performance of the credit card program with citibank. deterioration in economic or political conditions could adversely affect the volume of new credit accounts, the amount of credit card program balances and the ability of credit card holders to pay their balances. these conditions could result in the company receiving lower payments under the credit card program. in addition, unstable political conditions, civil unrest, terrorist activities and armed conflicts may disrupt commerce and could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. the company's effective tax rate is impacted by a number of factors, including changes in federal or state tax law, interpretation of existing laws and the ability to defend and support the tax positions taken on historical tax returns. certain changes in any of these factors could materially impact the effective tax rate and the company's net income. the company's revenues and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of its business. the company's business is seasonal, with a high proportion of revenues and operating cash flows generated during the second half of the year, which includes the fall and holiday selling seasons. a disproportionate amount of the company's revenues fall in the fourth quarter, which coincides with the holiday season. in addition, the company incurs significant additional expenses in the period leading up to the months of november and december in anticipation of higher sales volume in those periods, including for additional inventory, advertising and employees. the company's business could be affected by extreme weather conditions, regional or global health pandemics or natural disasters. extreme weather conditions in the areas in which the company's stores are located could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. for example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rainstorms or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for the company's customers to travel to its stores and thereby reduce the company's sales and profitability. the company's business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. for example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could reduce demand for a portion of the company's inventory and thereby reduce the company's sales and profitability. in addition, extreme weather conditions could result in disruption or delay of production and delivery of materials and products in the company's supply chain and cause staffing shortages in the company's stores. the company's business and results of operations could also be negatively affected if a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its location, duration and severity. to halt or delay the spread of disease, local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings or customers might avoid public places, such as the company's stores. a regional or global health pandemic might also result in disruption or delay of production and delivery of materials and products in the company's supply chain and cause staffing shortages in the company's stores. in addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes and earthquakes, or a combination of these or other factors, could damage or destroy the company's facilities or make it difficult for customers to travel to its stores, thereby negatively affecting the company's business and results of operations. 7 the company's defined benefit plan funding requirements or plan settlement expense could impact the company's financial results and cash flow. significant changes in interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and benefit payments could affect the funded status of the company's plans and could increase future funding requirements of the plans. a significant increase in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on the company's cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. as of january 28, 2017 , the company had unrecognized actuarial losses of $1,232 million for the funded defined benefit pension plan (the pension plan ) and $248 million for the unfunded defined benefit supplementary retirement plan (the serp ). these plans allow eligible retiring employees to receive lump sum distributions of benefits earned. under applicable accounting rules, if annual lump sum distributions exceed an actuarially determined threshold of the total of the annual service and interest costs, the company would be required to recognize in the current period of operations a settlement expense of a portion of the unrecognized actuarial loss and could have a negative impact on the company's results of operations. increases in the cost of employee benefits could impact the company's financial results and cash flow. the company's expenses relating to employee health benefits are significant. unfavorable changes in the cost of such benefits could negatively affect the company's financial results and cash flow. healthcare costs have risen significantly in recent years, and recent legislative and private sector initiatives regarding healthcare reform have resulted and could continue to result in significant changes to the u.s. healthcare system. due to uncertainty regarding legislative or regulatory changes to the affordable care act and related legislation, the company is not able at this time to fully determine the impact that future healthcare reform will have on company-sponsored medical plans. inability to access capital markets could adversely affect the company's business or financial condition. changes in the credit and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate fluctuations, may increase the cost of financing or restrict the company's access to this potential source of future liquidity. a decrease in the ratings that rating agencies assign to the company's short and long-term debt may negatively impact the company's access to the debt capital markets and increase the company's cost of borrowing. in addition, the company's bank credit agreements require the company to maintain specified interest coverage and leverage ratios. the company's ability to comply with the ratios may be affected by events beyond its control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. if the company's results of operations or operating ratios deteriorate to a point where the company is not in compliance with its debt covenants, and the company is unable to obtain a waiver, much of the company's debt would be in default and could become due and payable immediately. the company's assets may not be sufficient to repay in full this indebtedness, resulting in a need for an alternate source of funding. the company cannot make any assurances that it would be able to obtain such an alternate source of funding on satisfactory terms, if at all, and its inability to do so could cause the holders of its securities to experience a partial or total loss of their investments in the company. the company depends on its ability to attract and retain quality employees. the company's business is dependent upon attracting and retaining quality employees. the company has a large number of employees, many of whom are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. the company's ability to meet its labor needs while controlling the costs associated with hiring and training new employees is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. in addition, as a large and complex enterprise operating in a highly competitive and challenging business environment, the company is highly dependent upon management personnel to develop and effectively execute successful business strategies and tactics. any circumstances that adversely impact the company's ability to attract, train, develop and retain quality employees throughout the organization could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. the company depends upon designers, vendors and other sources of merchandise, goods and services. the company's business could be affected by disruptions in, or other legal, regulatory, political or economic issues associated with, the company's supply network. the company's relationships with established and emerging designers have been a significant contributor to the company's past success. the company's ability to find qualified vendors and access products in a timely and efficient manner is often challenging, particularly with respect to goods sourced outside the united states. the company's procurement of goods and services from outside the united states is subject to risks associated with political or financial 8 instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs and other factors relating to foreign trade. the company sources the majority of its merchandise from manufacturers located outside of the u.s., primarily asia, and any major changes in tax policy or trade relations, such as the disallowance of tax deductions for imported merchandise or the imposition of unilateral tariffs on imported goods, could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and liquidity. the company is also subject to costs and uncertainties associated with efforts to identify and disclose sources of "conflict minerals" used in products that the company causes to be manufactured and potential sell-through difficulties and reputational damage that may be associated with the inability of the company to determine that such products are "drc conflict-free." in addition, the company's procurement of all its goods and services is subject to the effects of price increases which the company may or may not be able to pass through to its customers. all of these factors may affect the company's ability to access suitable merchandise on acceptable terms, are beyond the company's control and could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations the company's sales and operating results could be adversely affected by product safety concerns. if the company's merchandise offerings do not meet applicable safety standards or consumers' expectations regarding safety, the company could experience decreased sales, increased costs and/or be exposed to legal and reputational risk. events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns could expose the company to government enforcement action and/or private litigation. reputational damage caused by real or perceived product safety concerns could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. the company depends on the success of its advertising and marketing programs. the company's business depends on effective marketing and high customer traffic. the company has many initiatives in this area, and often changes its advertising and marketing programs. there can be no assurance as to the company's continued ability to effectively execute its advertising and marketing programs, and any failure to do so could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. parties with whom the company does business may be subject to insolvency risks or may otherwise become unable or unwilling to perform their obligations to the company. the company is a party to contracts, transactions and business relationships with various third parties, including, without limitation, vendors, suppliers, service providers, lenders and participants in joint ventures, strategic alliances and other joint commercial relationships, pursuant to which such third parties have performance, payment and other obligations to the company. in some cases, the company depends upon such third parties to provide essential leaseholds, products, services or other benefits, including with respect to store and distribution center locations, merchandise, advertising, software development and support, logistics, other agreements for goods and services in order to operate the company's business in the ordinary course, extensions of credit, credit card accounts and related receivables, and other vital matters. current economic, industry and market conditions could result in increased risks to the company associated with the potential financial distress or insolvency of such third parties. if any of these third parties were to become subject to bankruptcy, receivership or similar proceedings, the rights and benefits of the company in relation to its contracts, transactions and business relationships with such third parties could be terminated, modified in a manner adverse to the company, or otherwise impaired. the company cannot make any assurances that it would be able to arrange for alternate or replacement contracts, transactions or business relationships on terms as favorable as the company's existing contracts, transactions or business relationships, if at all. any inability on the part of the company to do so could negatively affect the company's cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. a material disruption in the company's computer systems could adversely affect the company's business or results of operations. the company relies extensively on its computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage its business. the company's computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber-attack or other security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, acts of war or terrorism, and usage errors by the company's employees. if the company's computer systems are damaged or cease to function properly, the company may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and the company may suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in its operations. any material interruption in the company's computer systems could negatively affect its business and results of operations. 9 a breach of information technology systems could adversely affect the company's reputation, business partner and customer relationships, operations and result in high costs. through the company's sales, marketing activities, and use of third-party information, the company collects and stores certain non-public personal information that customers provide to purchase products or services, enroll in promotional programs, register on websites, or otherwise communicate to the company. this may include, but is not limited to, phone numbers, driver license numbers, contact preferences, personal information stored on electronic devices, and payment information, including credit and debit card data. the company also gathers and retains information about employees in the normal course of business. the company may share information about such persons with vendors that assist with certain aspects of the company's business. in addition, the company's online operations depend upon the transmission of confidential information over the internet, such as information permitting cashless payments. the company employs safeguards for the protection of such information. these protections may be compromised as a result of third-party security breaches, burglaries, cyberattack, errors by employees or employees of third-party vendors, or contractors, misappropriation of data by employees, vendors or unaffiliated third-parties, or other irregularities that may result in persons obtaining unauthorized access to company data. despite instituting controls for the protection of such information, no commercial or government entity can be entirely free of vulnerability to attack or compromise given that the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service change frequently. during the normal course of business, the company has experienced and expects to continue to experience attempts to compromise information systems security. unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to the company's systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom the company does business, through fraud, trickery, or other forms of deception to employees, contractors, vendors and temporary staff. the company may be unable to protect the integrity of systems or company data. moreover, an alleged or actual unauthorized access or unauthorized disclosure of non-public personal information could: materially damage the company's reputation and brand, negatively affect customer satisfaction and loyalty, expose the company to individual claims or consumer class actions, administrative, civil or criminal investigations or actions, and infringe on proprietary information; and cause the company to incur substantial costs, including but not limited to, costs associated with remediation of information technology systems, customer protection costs and incentive payments for the maintenance of business relationships, litigation costs, lost revenues resulting from negative changes in consumer shopping patterns, unauthorized use of proprietary information or the failure to retain or attract customers following an attack. while the company maintains insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be unavailable or insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise in the continually evolving area of cyber risk. disruption of global sourcing activities and the company's own brands' quality concerns could negatively impact brand reputation and earnings economic and civil unrest in areas of the world where the company source products, as well as shipping and dockage issues, could adversely impact the availability or cost of the company's products, or both. most of the company's goods imported to the u.s. arrive from asia through ports located on the u.s. west coast and are, therefore, subject to potential disruption due to labor unrest, security issues or natural disasters affecting any or all of these ports. in addition, in recent years, the company has substantially increased the number and types of merchandise that are sold under the company's proprietary brands. while the company has focused on the quality of its proprietary branded products, the company relies on third-parties to manufacture these products. such third-party manufacturers may prove to be unreliable, the quality of the company's globally sourced products may vary from the company's expectations and standards, such products may not meet applicable regulatory requirements which may require the company to recall these products, or such products may infringe upon the intellectual propriety rights of other third-parties. moreover, as the company seeks indemnities from manufactures of these products, the uncertainty of realization of any such indemnity and the lack of understanding of u.s. product liability laws in certain foreign jurisdictions make it more likely that the company may have to respond to claims or complaints from customers. litigation, legislation or regulatory developments could adversely affect the company's business and results of operations. the company is subject to various federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations, inquiries and initiatives in connection with both its core business operations and its credit card and other ancillary operations (including the credit card act of 2009 and the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 (the dodd-frank act )). 10 recent and future developments relating to such matters could increase the company's compliance costs and adversely affect the profitability of its credit card and other operations. the company is also subject to anti-bribery, customs, child labor, truth-in-advertising and other laws, including consumer protection regulations and zoning and occupancy ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities. although the company undertakes to monitor changes in these laws, if these laws change without the company's knowledge, or are violated by importers, designers, manufacturers, distributors or agents, the company could experience delays in shipments and receipt of goods or be subject to fines or other penalties under the controlling regulations, any of which could negatively affect the company's business and results of operations. in addition, the company is regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of its business. adverse outcomes in current or future litigation could negatively affect the company's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the company may not be able to successfully execute its real estate strategy. the company continues to explore opportunities to monetize its real estate portfolio and is focused on opportunities for sale transactions and, in some cases, redevelopment of assets. this strategy is multi-pronged and may include transactions, strategic alliances or other arrangements with mall developers or unrelated third-parties. due to the cyclical nature of real estate markets, the performance of the company's real estate strategy is inherently volatile and could have a significant impact on the company's results of operations or financial condition. factors beyond the company's control could affect the company's stock price. the company's stock price, like that of other retail companies, is subject to significant volatility because of many factors, including factors beyond the control of the company. these factors may include: general economic, stock, credit and real estate market conditions; risks relating to the company's business and its industry, including those discussed above; strategic actions by the company or its competitors; variations in the company's quarterly results of operations; future sales or purchases of the company's common stock; and investor perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with the company's common stock relative to other investment alternatives. in addition, the company may fail to meet the expectations of its stockholders or of analysts at some time in the future. if the analysts that regularly follow the company's stock lower their rating or lower their projections for future growth and financial performance, the company's stock price could decline. also, sales of a substantial number of shares of the company's common stock in the public market or the appearance that these shares are available for sale could adversely affect the market price of the company's common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that may adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in seeking to minimize the risks from interest rate fluctuations, the company manages exposures through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company does not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and is not a party to any leveraged financial instruments. the company is exposed to interest rate risk through its borrowing activities, which are described in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. all of the company's borrowings are under fixed rate instruments. however, the company, from time to time, may use interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to help manage its exposure to interest rate movements and reduce borrowing costs. at january 28, 2017 , the company was not a party to any derivative financial instruments and based on the company's lack of market risk sensitive instruments outstanding at january 28, 2017 , the company has determined that there was no material market risk exposure to the company's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of such date.risk factors. 5 in evaluating macy's, the risks described below and the matters described in forward-looking statements should be considered carefully. such risks and matters are numerous and diverse, may be experienced continuously or intermittently, and may vary in intensity and effect. any of such risks and matters, individually or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as on the attractiveness and value of an investment in macy's securities. strategic, operational and competitive risks macy's strategic initiatives may not be successful, which could negatively affect our profitability and growth. we are pursuing strategic initiatives to achieve our objective of accelerating profitable growth in our stores and our digital operations. this includes the adoption of new technologies, merchandising strategies and customer service initiatives all designed to improve the shopping experience. our ability to achieve profitable growth is subject to the successful implementation of our strategic plans. if these investments or initiatives do not perform as expected or create implementation or operational difficulties, we may incur impairment charges and our profitability and growth could suffer. our sales and operating results depend on consumer preferences and consumer spending. the fashion and retail industries are subject to sudden shifts in consumer trends and consumer spending. our sales and operating results depend in part on our ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. we develop new retail concepts and continuously adjust our industry position in certain major and private-label brands and product categories in an effort to satisfy customers. any sustained failure to anticipate, identify and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and consumer preferences could negatively affect our business and results of operations. our sales are significantly affected by discretionary spending by consumers. consumer spending may be affected by many factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions, consumer disposable income levels, consumer confidence levels, the availability, cost and level of consumer debt and consumer behaviors towards incurring and paying debt, the costs of basic necessities and other goods, the strength of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies and the effects of the weather or natural disasters. any decline in discretionary spending by consumers could negatively affect our business and results of operations. as we rely on the ability of our physical retail locations to remain relevant, providing desirable and sought-out shopping experiences is paramount to our financial success. changes in consumer shopping habits, financial difficulties at other anchor tenants, significant mall vacancy issues, mall violence and new mall developments could each adversely impact the traffic at current retail locations and lead to a decline in our financial condition or performance. we may not be able to successfully execute our real estate strategy. we continue to explore opportunities to monetize our real estate portfolio, including sales of stores as well as non-store real estate such as warehouses, outparcels and parking garages. we also continue to evaluate our real estate portfolio to identify opportunities where the redevelopment value of our real estate exceeds the value of non-strategic operating locations. this strategy is multi-pronged and may include transactions, strategic alliances or other arrangements with mall developers or unrelated third-parties. due to the cyclical nature of real estate markets, the performance of our real estate strategy is inherently volatile and could have a significant impact on our results of operations or financial condition. macy's revenues and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of our business. our business is seasonal, with a high proportion of revenues and operating cash flows generated during the second half of the year, which includes the fall and holiday selling seasons. a disproportionate amount of our revenues fall in the fourth quarter, which coincides with the holiday season. we incur significant additional expenses in the period leading up to the months of november and december in anticipation of higher sales volume in those periods, including for additional inventory, advertising and employees. we depend on our ability to attract and retain quality employees. our business is dependent upon attracting and retaining quality employees. macy's has a large number of employees, many of whom are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. macy's ability to meet our labor needs while controlling the costs associated with hiring and training new employees is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. in addition, as a large and complex enterprise operating in a highly competitive and challenging business environment, macy's is highly dependent upon management personnel to develop and effectively execute successful business strategies and tactics. any 6 circumstances that adversely impact our ability to attract, train, develop and retain quality employees throughout the organization could negatively affect our business and results of operations. macy's depends on the success of advertising and marketing programs. our business depends on effective marketing and high customer traffic. macy's has many initiatives in this area, and we often change advertising and marketing programs. there can be no assurance as to our continued ability to effectively execute our advertising and marketing programs, and any failure to do so could negatively affect our business and results of operations. if cash flows from our private label credit card decrease, our financial and operational results may be negatively impacted. we sold most of our credit accounts and related receivables to citibank. following the sale, we share in the economic performance of the credit card program with citibank. deterioration in economic or political conditions could adversely affect the volume of new credit accounts, the amount of credit card program balances and the ability of credit card holders to pay their balances. these conditions could result in macy's receiving lower payments under the credit card program. credit card operations are subject to many federal and state laws that may impose certain requirements and limitations on credit card providers. citibank and our subsidiary bank, fds bank, may be required to comply with regulations that may negatively impact the operation of our private label credit card. in turn, this negative impact may affect our revenue streams derived from the sale of such credit card accounts and negatively impact our financial results. gross margins could suffer if we are unable to effectively manage our inventory. our profitability depends on our ability to manage inventory levels and respond to shifts in consumer demand patterns. overestimating customer demand for merchandise will likely result in the need to record inventory markdowns and sell excess inventory at clearance prices which would negatively impact our gross margins and operating results. underestimating customer demand for merchandise can lead to inventory shortages, missed sales opportunities and negative customer experiences. our defined benefit plan funding requirements or plan settlement expense could impact our financial results and cash flow. significant changes in interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and benefit payments could affect the funded status of our plans and could increase future funding requirements of the plans. a significant increase in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. as of february 3, 2018 , we had unrecognized actuarial losses of $992 million for the funded defined benefit pension plan (the pension plan ) and $244 million for the unfunded defined benefit supplementary retirement plan (the serp ). these plans allow eligible retiring employees to receive lump sum distributions of benefits earned. under applicable accounting rules, if annual lump sum distributions exceed an actuarially determined threshold of the total of the annual service and interest costs, we would be required to recognize in the current period of operations a settlement expense of a portion of the unrecognized actuarial loss and could have a negative impact on our results of operations. increases in the cost of employee benefits could impact our financial results and cash flow. our expenses relating to employee health benefits are significant. unfavorable changes in the cost of such benefits could negatively affect our financial results and cash flow. healthcare costs have risen significantly in recent years, and recent legislative and private sector initiatives regarding healthcare reform have resulted and could continue to result in significant changes to the u.s. healthcare system. due to uncertainty regarding legislative or regulatory changes, we are not able to fully determine the impact that future healthcare reform will have on our company-sponsored medical plans. if our company's reputation and brand are not maintained at a high level, our operations and financial results may suffer. we believe our reputation and brand are partially based on the perception that we act equitably and honestly in dealing with our customers, employees, business partners and shareholders. our reputation and brand may be deteriorated by any incident that erodes the trust or confidence of our customers or the general public, particularly if the incident results in significant adverse publicity or governmental inquiry. in addition, information concerning us, whether or not true, may be instantly and easily posted on social media platforms at any time, which information may be adverse to our reputation or brand. the harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. if our reputation or 7 brand is damaged, our customers may refuse to continue shopping with us, potential employees may be unwilling to work for us, business partners may be discouraged from seeking future business dealings with us and, as a result, our operations and financial results may suffer. macy's faces significant competition in the retail industry and we depend on our ability to differentiate macy's in retail's ever-changing environment. we conduct our retail merchandising business under highly competitive conditions. although macy's is one of the nation's largest retailers, we have numerous and varied competitors at the national and local levels, including department stores, specialty stores, general merchandise stores, off-price and discount stores, manufacturers' outlets, online retailers, catalogs and television shopping, among others. competition may intensify as our competitors enter into business combinations or alliances. competition is characterized by many factors, including assortment, advertising, price, quality, service, location, reputation and credit availability. any failure by us to compete effectively could negatively affect our business and results of operations. as consumers continue to migrate online, we face pressures to not only compete from a price perspective with our competitors, some of whom sell the same products, but also to differentiate macy's to stay relevant in retail's ever-changing industry. we continue to significantly invest in our omnichannel capabilities in order to provide a seamless shopping experience to our customers between our brick and mortar locations and our online and mobile environments. insufficient, untimely or misguided investments in this area could significantly impact our profitability and growth and affect our ability to attract new customers, as well as maintain our existing ones. in addition, declining customer store traffic and migration of sales from brick and mortar stores to digital platforms could lead to store closures, restructuring and other costs that could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. our sales and operating results could be adversely affected by product safety concerns. if macy's merchandise offerings do not meet applicable safety standards or consumers' expectations regarding safety, we could experience decreased sales, increased costs and/or be exposed to legal and reputational risk. events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns could expose macy's to government enforcement action and/or private litigation. reputational damage caused by real or perceived product safety concerns could negatively affect our business and results of operations. technology and data security risks a material disruption in our computer systems could adversely affect our business or results of operations. we rely extensively on our computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. our computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber-attack or other security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, acts of war or terrorism, and usage errors by our employees. if our computer systems are damaged or cease to function properly, including a material disruption in our ability to authorize and process transactions at our stores or on our online systems, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and we may suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our operations. any material interruption in our computer systems could negatively affect our business and results of operations. if our technology-based e-commerce systems do not function properly, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. customers are increasingly using computers, tablets and smart phones to shop online and to do price and comparison shopping. we strive to anticipate and meet our customers' changing expectations and are focused on building a seamless shopping experience across our omnichannel business. any failure to provide user-friendly, secure e-commerce platforms that offer a variety of merchandise at competitive prices with low cost and quick delivery options that meet customers' expectations could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of e-commerce and other sales, harm our reputation with customers and have a material adverse impact on the growth of our business and our operating results. a breach of information technology systems could adversely affect our reputation, business partner and customer relationships, operations and result in high costs. through our sales, marketing activities, and use of third-party information, we collect and store certain non-public personal information that customers provide to purchase products or services, enroll in promotional programs, register on websites, or otherwise communicate to us. this may include phone numbers, driver license numbers, contact preferences, personal information stored on electronic devices, and payment information, including credit and debit card data. we 8 gather and retain information about employees in the normal course of business. we may share information about such persons with vendors that assist with certain aspects of our business. in addition, our online operations depend upon the transmission of confidential information over the internet, such as information permitting cashless payments. we employ safeguards for the protection of this information and have made significant investments to secure access to our information technology network. for instance, we have implemented authentication protocols, installed firewalls and anti-virus/anti-malware software, conducted continuous risk assessments, and established data security breach preparedness and response plans. we also employ encryption and other methods to protect our data, promote security awareness with our associates and work with business partners in an effort to create secure and compliant systems. however, these protections may be compromised as a result of third-party security breaches, burglaries, cyberattack, errors by employees or employees of third-party vendors, or contractors, misappropriation of data by employees, vendors or unaffiliated third-parties, or other irregularities that may result in persons obtaining unauthorized access to company data. retail data frequently targeted by cybercriminals is consumer credit card data, personally identifiable information, including social security numbers, and health care information. for retailers, point of sale and e-commerce websites are often attacked through compromised credentials, including those obtained through phishing, vishing and credential stuffing. other methods of attack include advanced malware, the exploitation of software and operating vulnerabilities, and physical device tampering/skimming at card reader units and we believe these attack methods will continue to evolve. despite instituting controls for the protection of such information, no commercial or government entity can be entirely free of vulnerability to attack or compromise given that the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service change frequently. during the normal course of business, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience attempts to compromise our information systems. unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through fraud, trickery, or other forms of deception to employees, contractors, vendors and temporary staff. we may be unable to protect the integrity of our systems or company data. an alleged or actual unauthorized access or unauthorized disclosure of non-public personal information could: materially damage our reputation and brand, negatively affect customer satisfaction and loyalty, expose us to individual claims or consumer class actions, administrative, civil or criminal investigations or actions, and infringe on proprietary information; and cause us to incur substantial costs, including costs associated with remediation of information technology systems, customer protection costs and incentive payments for the maintenance of business relationships, litigation costs, lost revenues resulting from negative changes in consumer shopping patterns, unauthorized use of proprietary information or the failure to retain or attract customers following an attack. while we maintain insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be unavailable or insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise in the continually evolving area of cyber risk. supply chain and third party risks macy's depends upon designers, vendors and other sources of merchandise, goods and services. our business could be affected by disruptions in, or other legal, regulatory, political or economic issues associated with, our supply network. our relationships with established and emerging designers have been a significant contributor to macy's past success. our ability to find qualified vendors and access products in a timely and efficient manner is often challenging, particularly with respect to goods sourced outside the united states. our procurement of goods and services from outside the united states is subject to risks associated with political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs and other factors relating to foreign trade. we source the majority of our merchandise from manufacturers located outside of the u.s., primarily asia, and any major changes in tax policy or trade relations, such as the disallowance of tax deductions for imported merchandise or the imposition of unilateral tariffs on imported goods, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity. in addition, the procurement of all our goods and services are subject to the effects of price increases which we may or may not be able to pass through to our customers. all of these factors may affect our ability to access suitable merchandise on acceptable terms, are beyond our control and could negatively affect our business and results of operations disruption of global sourcing activities and macy's own brands' quality concerns could negatively impact brand reputation and earnings. 9 economic and civil unrest in areas of the world where we source products, as well as shipping and dockage issues, could adversely impact the availability or cost of our products, or both. most of macy's goods imported to the u.s. arrive from asia through ports located on the u.s. west coast and are subject to potential disruption due to labor unrest, security issues or natural disasters affecting any or all of these ports. in addition, in recent years, we have substantially increased the number and types of merchandise that are sold under macy's proprietary brands. while we have focused on the quality of our proprietary branded products, we rely on third-parties to manufacture these products. such third-party manufacturers may prove to be unreliable, the quality of our globally sourced products may vary from expectations and standards, the products may not meet applicable regulatory requirements which may require us to recall these products, or the products may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of other third-parties. as we seek indemnities from manufacturers of these products, the uncertainty of recovering on such indemnity and the lack of understanding of u.s. product liability laws in certain foreign jurisdictions make it more likely that we may have to respond to claims or complaints from customers. parties with whom macy's does business may be subject to insolvency risks or may otherwise become unable or unwilling to perform on their obligations to us. macy's is a party to contracts, transactions and business relationships with various third parties, including, without limitation, vendors, suppliers, service providers, lenders and participants in joint ventures, strategic alliances and other joint commercial relationships, pursuant to which such third parties have performance, payment and other obligations to macy's. in some cases, we depend upon such third parties to provide essential leaseholds, products, services or other benefits, including with respect to store and distribution center locations, merchandise, advertising, software development and support, logistics, other agreements for goods and services in order to operate our business in the ordinary course, extensions of credit, credit card accounts and related receivables, and other vital matters. current economic, industry and market conditions could result in increased risks to macy's associated with the potential financial distress or insolvency of such third parties. if any of these third parties were to become subject to bankruptcy, receivership or similar proceedings, the rights and benefits with respect to our contracts, transactions and business relationships with such third parties could be terminated, modified in a manner adverse to us, or otherwise impaired. we may be unable to arrange for alternate or replacement contracts, transactions or business relationships on terms as favorable as existing contracts, transactions or business relationships. our inability to do so could negatively affect our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. global, legal and external risks macy's business is subject to unfavorable economic and political conditions and other related risks. unfavorable global, domestic or regional economic or political conditions and other developments and risks could negatively affect our business and results of operations. for example, unfavorable changes related to interest rates, rates of economic growth, fiscal and monetary policies of governments, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, consumer debt payment behaviors, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, energy prices, and other matters that influence the availability and cost of merchandise, consumer confidence, spending and tourism could negatively affect our business and results of operations. in addition, unstable political conditions, civil unrest, terrorist activities and armed conflicts may disrupt commerce and could negatively affect our business and results of operations. our effective tax rate is impacted by a number of factors, including changes in federal or state tax law, interpretation of existing laws and the ability to defend and support the tax positions taken on historical tax returns. certain changes in any of these factors could materially impact the effective tax rate and net income. our business could be affected by extreme weather conditions, regional or global health pandemics or natural disasters. extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our stores are located could negatively affect our business and results of operations. for example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rainstorms or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores and thereby reduce our sales and profitability. our business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. for example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could reduce demand for a portion of our inventory and thereby reduce our sales and profitability. in addition, extreme weather conditions could result in disruption or delay of production and delivery of materials and products in our supply chain and cause staffing shortages in our stores. our business and results of operations could also be negatively affected if a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its location, duration and severity. to halt or delay the spread of disease, local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings or customers might avoid public places, such as our stores. a 10 regional or global health pandemic might also result in disruption or delay of production and delivery of materials and products in our supply chain and cause staffing shortages in our stores. natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes and earthquakes, or a combination of these or other factors, could damage or destroy our facilities or make it difficult for customers to travel to our stores, thereby negatively affecting our business and results of operations. litigation, legislation or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business and results of operations. we are subject to various federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations, inquiries and initiatives in connection with both our core business operations and our credit card and other ancillary operations (including the credit card act of 2009 and the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010). recent and future developments relating to such matters could increase our compliance costs and adversely affect the profitability of our credit card and other operations. we are also subject to anti-bribery, customs, child labor, truth-in-advertising and other laws, including consumer protection regulations and zoning and occupancy ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities. although we undertake to monitor changes in these laws, if these laws change without our knowledge, or are violated by importers, designers, manufacturers, distributors or agents, we could experience delays in shipments and receipt of goods or be subject to fines or other penalties under the controlling regulations, any of which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. in addition, we are regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of our business. adverse outcomes in current or future litigation could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. financial risks inability to access capital markets could adversely affect our business or financial condition. changes in the credit and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate fluctuations, may increase the cost of financing or restrict our access to this potential source of future liquidity. a decrease in the ratings that rating agencies assign to macy's short and long-term debt may negatively impact our access to the debt capital markets and increase our cost of borrowing. in addition, our bank credit agreements require us to maintain specified interest coverage and leverage ratios. our ability to comply with the ratios may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. if our results of operations or operating ratios deteriorate to a point where we are not in compliance with our debt covenants, and we are unable to obtain a waiver, much of our debt would be in default and could become due and payable immediately. our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full this indebtedness, resulting in a need for an alternate source of funding. we cannot make any assurances that we would be able to obtain such an alternate source of funding on satisfactory terms, if at all, and our inability to do so could cause the holders of our securities to experience a partial or total loss of their investments in macy's. factors beyond our control could affect macy's stock price. macy's stock price, like that of other retail companies, is subject to significant volatility because of many factors, including factors beyond our control. these factors may include: general economic, stock, credit and real estate market conditions; risks relating to macy's business and industry, including those discussed above; strategic actions by us or our competitors; variations in our quarterly results of operations; future sales or purchases of macy's common stock; and investor perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with macy's common stock relative to other investment alternatives. we may fail to meet the expectations of our stockholders or of analysts at some time in the future. if the analysts that regularly follow macy's stock lower their rating or lower their projections for future growth and financial performance, macy's stock price could decline. also, sales of a substantial number of shares of macy's common stock in the public market or the appearance that these shares are available for sale could adversely affect the market price of macy's common stock. 11 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that may adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in seeking to minimize the risks from interest rate fluctuations, the company manages exposures through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company does not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and is not a party to any leveraged financial instruments. the company is exposed to interest rate risk through its borrowing activities, which are described in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. all of the company's borrowings are under fixed rate instruments. however, the company, from time to time, may use interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to help manage its exposure to interest rate movements and reduce borrowing costs. at february 3, 2018 , the company was not a party to any derivative financial instruments and based on the company's lack of market risk sensitive instruments outstanding at february 3, 2018 , the company has determined that there was no material market risk exposure to the company's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of such date.risk factors. in evaluating macy's, the risks described below and the matters described in forward-looking statements should be considered carefully. such risks and matters are numerous and diverse, may be experienced continuously or intermittently, and may vary in intensity and effect. any of such risks and matters, individually or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as on the attractiveness and value of an investment in macy's securities. strategic, operational and competitive risks our strategic initiatives may not be successful, which could negatively affect our profitability and growth. we are pursuing strategic initiatives to achieve our objective of accelerating profitable growth in our stores and our digital operations. this includes the adoption of new technologies, merchandising strategies and customer service initiatives all designed to improve the shopping experience. our ability to achieve profitable growth is subject to the successful implementation of our strategic plans. if these investments or initiatives do not perform as expected or create implementation or operational difficulties, we may incur impairment charges and our profitability and growth could suffer. our sales and operating results depend on consumer preferences and consumer spending. the fashion and retail industries are subject to sudden shifts in consumer trends and consumer spending. our sales and operating results depend in part on our ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. we develop new retail concepts and continuously adjust our industry position in certain major and private-label brands and product categories in an effort to attract and retain customers. any sustained failure to anticipate, identify and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and consumer preferences could negatively affect our business and results of operations. our sales are significantly affected by discretionary spending by consumers. consumer spending may be affected by many factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions, consumer disposable income levels, consumer confidence levels, the availability, cost and level of consumer debt, consumer behaviors towards incurring and paying debt, the cost of basic necessities and other goods, the strength of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies and the effects of the weather or natural disasters. these factors can have psychological or economic impacts on consumers that affect their discretionary spending habits. any decline in discretionary spending by consumers could negatively affect our business and results of operations. we face significant competition in the retail industry. we conduct our retail merchandising business under highly competitive conditions. although macy's is one of the nation's largest retailers, we have numerous and varied competitors at the national and local levels, including department stores, specialty stores, general merchandise stores, manufacturers' outlets, off-price and discount stores, online retailers, catalogs and television shopping, among others. competition is characterized by many factors, including assortment, advertising, price, quality, service, location, reputation and credit availability. any failure by us to compete effectively could negatively affect our business and results of operations. we face challenges as consumers migrate to online shopping and we depend on our ability to differentiate macy's in retail's ever-changing environment. as consumers continue to migrate online, we face pressures to not only compete from a price perspective with our competitors, some of whom sell the same products, but also to differentiate macy's to stay relevant in retail's ever-changing environment. we continue to significantly invest in our omnichannel capabilities to provide a seamless shopping experience to our customers between our brick and mortar locations and our online and mobile environments. insufficient, untimely or misguided investments in this area could significantly impact our profitability and growth and affect our ability to attract new customers, as well as maintain our existing ones. in addition, declining customer store traffic and migration of sales from brick and mortar stores to digital platforms could lead to store closures, restructuring and other costs that could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. our ability to grow depends in part on our brick and mortar stores remaining relevant to customers. we are investing in facilities and fixtures upgrades, merchandise assortment and customer service in selected stores to improve customer retention rates and overall customer satisfaction. some stores are receiving targeted local marketing plans to drive customer traffic. while these growth stores have outperformed the remainder of our store fleet, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve continued improvement in our brick and mortar business. 6 because we rely on the ability of our physical retail locations to remain relevant to customers, providing desirable and sought-out shopping experiences is critical to our financial success. changes in consumer shopping habits, financial difficulties at other anchor tenants, significant mall vacancy issues, mall violence and new mall developments could each adversely impact the traffic at current retail locations and lead to a decline in our financial condition or performance. we may not be able to successfully execute our real estate strategy. we continue to explore opportunities to monetize our real estate portfolio, including sales of stores as well as non-store real estate such as warehouses, outparcels and parking garages. we also continue to evaluate our real estate portfolio to identify opportunities where the redevelopment value of our real estate exceeds the value of non-strategic operating locations. this strategy is multi-pronged and may include transactions, strategic alliances or other arrangements with mall developers or other unrelated third-parties. due to the cyclical nature of real estate markets, the performance of our real estate strategy is inherently volatile and could have a significant impact on our results of operations or financial condition. our revenues and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of our business. our business is seasonal, with a high proportion of revenues and operating cash flows generated during the second half of the year, which includes the fall and holiday selling seasons. a disproportionate amount of our revenues is in the fourth quarter, which coincides with the holiday season. should holiday sales fall below our expectations, a disproportionately negative impact on our results of operations could occur. we incur significant additional expenses in the period leading up to the months of november and december in anticipation of higher sales volume in those periods, including costs for additional inventory, advertising and employees. if we are not successful in selling inventory, we may have to sell the inventory at significantly reduced prices or may not be able to sell the inventory at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. we depend on our ability to attract, train, develop and retain quality employees. our business is dependent upon attracting, training, developing and retaining quality employees. macy's has a large number of employees, many of whom are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. the ability to meet our labor needs while controlling costs associated with hiring and training new employees is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. in addition, as a large and complex enterprise operating in a highly competitive and challenging business environment, macy's is highly dependent upon management personnel to develop and effectively execute successful business strategies and tactics. any circumstances that adversely impact our ability to attract, train, develop and retain quality employees throughout the organization could negatively affect our business and results of operations. we depend on the success of advertising and marketing programs. our business depends on effective marketing to create high customer traffic at stores and online. macy's has many initiatives in this area, and we often change advertising and marketing programs to attract customers and increase sales. there can be no assurance as to our continued ability to effectively execute our advertising and marketing programs, and any failure to do so could negatively affect our business and results of operations. if cash flows from our private label credit card decrease, our financial and operational results may be negatively impacted. we previously sold most of our credit accounts and related receivables to citibank. following the sale, we share in the economic performance of the credit card program with citibank. deterioration in economic or political conditions could adversely affect the volume of new credit accounts, the amount of credit card program balances and the ability of credit card holders to pay their balances. these conditions could result in macy's receiving lower payments under the credit card program. credit card operations are subject to many federal and state laws that may impose certain requirements and limitations on credit card providers. citibank and our subsidiary bank, fds bank, may be required to comply with regulations that may negatively impact the operation of our private label credit card. this negative impact may affect our revenue streams derived from the sale of such credit card accounts and our financial results. gross margins could suffer if we are unable to effectively manage our inventory. our profitability depends on our ability to manage inventory levels and respond to shifts in consumer demand patterns. overestimating customer demand for merchandise will likely result in the need to record inventory markdowns and sell excess inventory at clearance prices which would negatively impact our gross margins and operating results. underestimating customer demand for merchandise can lead to inventory shortages, missed sales opportunities and negative customer experiences. 7 our defined benefit plan funding requirements or plan settlement expense could impact our financial results and cash flow. significant changes in interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and timing and amount of benefit payments could affect the funded status of our plans and could increase future funding requirements of the plans. a significant increase in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. these plans allow eligible retiring employees to receive lump sum distributions of benefits earned. under applicable accounting rules, if annual lump sum distributions exceed an actuarially determined threshold of the total of the annual service and interest costs, we would be required to recognize in the current period of operations a settlement expense of a portion of the unrecognized actuarial loss and could have a negative impact on our results of operations. increases in the cost of employee benefits could impact our financial results and cash flow. our expenses relating to employee health benefits are significant. unfavorable changes in the cost of such benefits could negatively affect our financial results and cash flow. healthcare costs have risen significantly in recent years, and recent legislative and private sector initiatives regarding healthcare reform have resulted and could continue to result in significant changes to the u.s. healthcare system. due to uncertainty regarding legislative or regulatory changes, we are not able to fully determine the impact that future healthcare reform will have on our company-sponsored medical plans. if our company's reputation and brand are not maintained at a high level, our operations and financial results may suffer. we believe our reputation and brand are partially based on the perception that we act equitably and honestly in dealing with our customers, employees, business partners and shareholders. our reputation and brand may be deteriorated by any incident that erodes the trust or confidence of our customers or the general public, particularly if the incident results in significant adverse publicity or governmental inquiry. in addition, information concerning us, whether or not true, may be instantly and easily posted on social media platforms at any time, which information may be adverse to our reputation or brand. the harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. if our reputation or brand is damaged, our customers may refuse to continue shopping with us, potential employees may be unwilling to work for us, business partners may be discouraged from seeking future business dealings with us and, as a result, our operations and financial results may suffer. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our brands and business could be damaged. we believe that our copyrights, trademarks, trade dress, trade secrets and similar intellectual property are important assets and key elements of our strategy, including those related to our private brand merchandise. we rely on copyright and trademark law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and others to protect our proprietary rights. if the steps we take to protect our proprietary rights are inadequate, or if we are unable to protect or preserve the value of our copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other proprietary rights for any reason, our merchandise brands and business could be negatively affected. our sales and operating results could be adversely affected by product safety concerns. if macy's merchandise offerings do not meet applicable safety standards or consumers' expectations regarding safety, we could experience decreased sales, increased costs and/or be exposed to legal and reputational risk. events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns could expose macy's to government enforcement action and/or private litigation. reputational damage caused by real or perceived product safety concerns could negatively affect our business and results of operations. a shutdown or disruption in our distribution and fulfillment centers could have an adverse impact on our business and operations. our business depends on the orderly receipt and distribution of merchandise and effective management of our distribution and fulfillment centers. unforeseen disruptions in operations due to fire, severe weather conditions, natural disasters or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements, or other shipping problems may result in the loss or unavailability of inventory and/or delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores and customers. 8 technology and data security risks a material disruption in our computer systems could adversely affect our business or results of operations. we rely extensively on our computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. our computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber-attack or other security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, acts of war or terrorism, and usage errors by our employees. if our computer systems are damaged or cease to function properly, including a material disruption in our ability to authorize and process transactions at our stores or on our online systems, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and we may suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our operations. any material interruption in our computer systems could negatively affect our business and results of operations. if our technology-based e-commerce systems do not function properly, our operating results could be negatively affected. customers are increasingly using computers, tablets and smart phones to shop online and to do price and comparison shopping. we strive to anticipate and meet our customers' changing expectations and are focused on building a seamless shopping experience across our omnichannel business. any failure to provide user-friendly, secure e-commerce platforms that offer a variety of merchandise at competitive prices with low cost and quick delivery options that meet customers' expectations could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of e-commerce and other sales, harm our reputation with customers and have a material adverse impact on the growth of our business and our operating results. a breach of information technology systems could adversely affect our reputation, business partner and customer relationships and operations, and result in high costs. through our sales, marketing activities, and use of third-party information, we collect and store certain non-public personal information that customers provide to purchase products or services, enroll in promotional programs, register on websites, or otherwise communicate to us. this may include phone numbers, driver license numbers, contact preferences, personal information stored on electronic devices, and payment information, including credit and debit card data. we gather and retain information about employees in the normal course of business. we may share information about such persons with vendors that assist with certain aspects of our business. in addition, our online operations depend upon the transmission of confidential information over the internet, such as information permitting cashless payments. we employ safeguards for the protection of this information and have made significant investments to secure access to our information technology network. for instance, we have implemented authentication protocols, installed firewalls and anti-virus/anti-malware software, conducted continuous risk assessments, and established data security breach preparedness and response plans. we also employ encryption and other methods to protect our data, promote security awareness with our associates and work with business partners in an effort to create secure and compliant systems. however, these protections may be compromised as a result of third-party security breaches, burglaries, cyberattacks, errors by employees or employees of third-party vendors, or contractors, misappropriation of data by employees, vendors or unaffiliated third-parties, or other irregularities that may result in persons obtaining unauthorized access to company data. retail data frequently targeted by cybercriminals includes consumer credit card data, personally identifiable information, including social security numbers, and health care information. for retailers, point of sale and e-commerce websites are often attacked through compromised credentials, including those obtained through phishing, vishing and credential stuffing. other methods of attack include advanced malware, the exploitation of software and operating vulnerabilities, and physical device tampering/skimming at card reader units. we believe these attack methods will continue to evolve. despite instituting controls for the protection of such information, no commercial or government entity can be entirely free of vulnerability to attack or compromise given that the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service change frequently. during the normal course of business, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience attempts to compromise our information systems. unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through fraud, trickery, or other forms of deception to employees, contractors, vendors and temporary staff. we may be unable to protect the integrity of our systems or company data. an alleged or actual unauthorized access or unauthorized disclosure of non-public personal information could: 9 materially damage our reputation and brand, negatively affect customer satisfaction and loyalty, expose us to individual claims or consumer class actions, administrative, civil or criminal investigations or actions, and infringe on proprietary information; and cause us to incur substantial costs, including costs associated with remediation of information technology systems, customer protection costs and incentive payments for the maintenance of business relationships, litigation costs, lost revenues resulting from negative changes in consumer shopping patterns, unauthorized use of proprietary information or the failure to retain or attract customers following an attack. while we maintain insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be unavailable or insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise in the continually evolving area of cyber risk. supply chain and third party risks we depend upon designers, vendors and other sources of merchandise, goods and services. our business could be affected by disruptions in, or other legal, regulatory, political or economic issues associated with, our supply network. our relationships with established and emerging designers have been significant contributors to macy's past success. our ability to find qualified vendors and access products in a timely and efficient manner is often challenging, particularly with respect to goods sourced outside the united states. we source the majority of our merchandise from manufacturers located outside the u.s., primarily asia. any major changes in tax policy, such as the disallowance of tax deductions for imported merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity. the procurement of all our goods and services are subject to the effects of price increases which we may or may not be able to pass through to our customers. in addition, our procurement of goods and services from outside the u.s. is subject to risks associated with political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs and other factors relating to foreign trade. all of these factors may affect our ability to access suitable merchandise on acceptable terms, are beyond our control and could negatively affect our business and results of operations. on september 18, 2018, the office of the u.s. trade representative announced that the current u.s. administration would impose a 10% tariff on approximately $200 billion worth of imports from china into the u.s. effective september 24, 2018, which was expected to increase to 25% starting january 1, 2019. on december 19, 2018, the u.s. trade representative announced a modification to the effective date of the 25% tariffs on china goods from january 1, 2019 to march 2, 2019. we are evaluating the potential impact of the effective and proposed tariffs as well as other recent changes in foreign trade policy on our supply chain, costs, sales and profitability and are considering strategies to mitigate such impact, including reviewing sourcing options and working with our vendors and merchants. while it is too early to predict how these changes in foreign trade policy and any recently enacted, proposed and future tariffs on products imported by us from china will affect our business, these changes could negatively impact our business and results of operations if they seriously disrupt the movement of products through our supply chain or increase their cost. in addition, while we may be able to shift our sourcing options, executing such a shift would be time consuming and would be difficult or impracticable for many products and may result in an increase in our manufacturing costs. the adoption and expansion of trade restrictions, retaliatory tariffs, or other governmental action related to tariffs or international trade agreements or policies has the potential to adversely impact demand for our products, our costs, our customers, our suppliers, and/or the u.s. economy, which in turn could adversely impact our results of operations and business. disruption of global sourcing activities and quality concerns over our own brands could negatively impact brand reputation and earnings. economic and civil unrest in areas of the world where we source products, as well as shipping and dockage issues, could adversely impact the availability or cost of our products, or both. most of macy's goods imported to the u.s. arrive from asia through ports located on the u.s. west coast and are subject to potential disruption due to labor unrest, security issues or natural disasters affecting any or all of these ports. in addition, in recent years, we have substantially increased the number and types of merchandise that are sold under macy's proprietary brands. while we have focused on the quality of our proprietary branded products, we rely on third-parties to manufacture these products. such third-party manufacturers may prove to be unreliable, the quality of our globally sourced products may vary from expectations and standards, the products may not meet applicable regulatory requirements which may require us to recall these products, or the products may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third-parties. we face challenges in seeking indemnities from manufacturers of these products, including the uncertainty of recovering on such indemnity and the lack of understanding by manufacturers of u.s. product liability laws in certain foreign jurisdictions. 10 parties with whom macy's does business may be subject to insolvency risks or may otherwise become unable or unwilling to perform on their obligations to us. macy's is a party to contracts, transactions and business relationships with various third parties, including, without limitation, vendors, suppliers, service providers, lenders and participants in joint ventures, strategic alliances and other joint commercial relationships, pursuant to which such third parties have performance, payment and other obligations to macy's. in some cases, we depend upon such third parties to provide essential leaseholds, products, services or other benefits, including with respect to store and distribution center locations, merchandise, advertising, software development and support, logistics, other agreements for goods and services to operate our business in the ordinary course, extensions of credit, credit card accounts and related receivables, and other vital matters. current economic, industry and market conditions could result in increased risks to macy's associated with the potential financial distress or insolvency of such third parties. if any of these third parties were to become subject to bankruptcy, receivership or similar proceedings, the rights and benefits with respect to our contracts, transactions and business relationships with such third parties could be terminated, modified in a manner adverse to us, or otherwise impaired. we may be unable to arrange for alternate or replacement contracts, transactions or business relationships on terms as favorable as existing contracts, transactions or business relationships. our inability to do so could negatively affect our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. global, legal and external risks macy's business is subject to unfavorable economic and political conditions and other related risks. unfavorable global, domestic or regional economic or political conditions and other developments and risks could negatively affect our business and results of operations. for example, unfavorable changes related to interest rates, rates of economic growth, fiscal and monetary policies of governments, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, consumer debt payment behaviors, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, energy prices, and other matters that influence the availability and cost of merchandise, consumer confidence, spending and tourism could negatively affect our business and results of operations. in addition, unstable political conditions, civil unrest, terrorist activities and armed conflicts may disrupt commerce and could negatively affect our business and results of operations. our effective tax rate is impacted by a number of factors, including changes in federal or state tax law, interpretation of existing laws and the ability to defend and support the tax positions taken on historical tax returns. certain changes in any of these factors could materially impact the effective tax rate and net income. our business could be affected by extreme weather conditions, regional or global health pandemics or natural disasters. extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our stores are located could negatively affect our business and results of operations. for example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rainstorms or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores and thereby reduce our sales and profitability. our business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. for example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could reduce demand for a portion of our inventory and thereby reduce our sales and profitability. in addition, extreme weather conditions could result in disruption or delay of production and delivery of materials and products in our supply chain and cause staffing shortages in our stores. our business and results of operations could also be negatively affected if a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its location, duration and severity. customers might avoid public places, such as our stores, or in extreme cases governments might limit or ban public gatherings or travel. a regional or global health pandemic might also result in disruption or delay of production and delivery of materials and products in our supply chain and cause staffing shortages in our stores. natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes and earthquakes, or a combination of these or other factors, could damage or destroy our facilities or make it difficult for customers to travel to our stores, thereby negatively affecting our business and results of operations. litigation, legislation or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business and results of operations. we are subject to various federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations, inquiries and initiatives in connection with both our core business operations and our credit card and other ancillary operations (including the credit card act of 2009 and the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010). recent and future developments relating to such matters could increase our compliance costs and adversely affect the profitability of our credit card and other 11 operations. we are also subject to anti-bribery, customs, child labor, truth-in-advertising and other laws, including consumer protection regulations and zoning and occupancy ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities. although we undertake to monitor changes in these laws, if these laws change without our knowledge, or are violated by importers, designers, manufacturers, distributors or agents, we could experience delays in shipments and receipt of goods or be subject to fines or other penalties under the controlling regulations, any of which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. in addition, we are regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of our business. adverse outcomes in current or future litigation could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. financial risks inability to access capital markets could adversely affect our business or financial condition. changes in the credit and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate fluctuations, may increase the cost of financing or restrict our access to this potential source of future liquidity. a decrease in the ratings that rating agencies assign to macy's short and long-term debt may negatively impact our access to the debt capital markets and increase our cost of borrowing. in addition, our bank credit agreements require us to maintain specified interest coverage and leverage ratios. our ability to comply with the ratios may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. if our results of operations or operating ratios deteriorate to a point where we are not in compliance with our debt covenants, and we are unable to obtain a waiver, much of our debt would be in default and could become due and payable immediately. our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full this indebtedness, resulting in a need for an alternate source of funding. we cannot make any assurances that we would be able to obtain such an alternate source of funding on satisfactory terms, if at all, and our inability to do so could cause the holders of our securities to experience a partial or total loss of their investments in macy's. factors beyond our control could affect macy's stock price. macy's stock price, like that of other retail companies, is subject to significant volatility because of many factors, including factors beyond our control. these factors may include: general economic, stock, credit and real estate market conditions; risks relating to macy's business and industry, including those discussed above; strategic actions by us or our competitors; adverse business announcements by our competitors; variations in our quarterly results of operations; future sales or purchases of macy's common stock; and investor perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with macy's common stock relative to other investment alternatives. we may fail to meet the expectations of our stockholders or of analysts at some time in the future. if the analysts who regularly follow macy's stock lower their rating or lower their projections for future growth and financial performance, macy's stock price could decline. also, sales of a substantial number of shares of macy's common stock in the public market or the appearance that these shares are available for sale could adversely affect the market price of macy's common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that may adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in seeking to minimize the risks from interest rate fluctuations, the company manages exposures through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company does not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and is not a party to any leveraged financial instruments. the company is exposed to interest rate risk through its borrowing activities, which are described in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. all of the company's borrowings are under fixed rate instruments. however, the company, from time to time, may use interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to help manage its exposure to interest rate movements and reduce borrowing costs. at february 2, 2019 , the company was not a party to any derivative financial instruments and based on the company's lack of market risk sensitive instruments outstanding at february 2, 2019 , the company has determined that there was no material market risk exposure to the company's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of such date.risk factors. in evaluating macy's, the risks described below and the matters described in forward-looking statements should be considered carefully. such risks and matters are numerous and diverse, may be experienced continuously or intermittently, and may vary in intensity and effect. any of such risks and matters, individually or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as on the attractiveness and value of an investment in macy's securities. the recent outbreak of covid-19 may have a significant negative impact on the company's business and financial results in december 2019, there was an outbreak of covid-19 in china that has since spread to many other regions of the world. the outbreak was subsequently labeled as a global pandemic by the world health organization in march 2020. as the pandemic continues to spread throughout the united states, businesses as well as federal, state and local governments have implemented significant actions to attempt to mitigate this public health crisis. although the ultimate severity of the covid-19 outbreak is uncertain at this time, the pandemic may have adverse impacts on the company's financial condition and results of operations, including, but not limited to: the company may experience significant reductions or volatility in demand for its retail products as customers may not be able to purchase merchandise due to illness, quarantine or government or self-imposed restrictions placed on our stores' operations. currently all of our stores are closed and will remain closed until it is safe to reopen. additionally, social distancing measures or changes in consumer spending behaviors due to covid-19 may continue to impact traffic in our stores after they resume normal operations and such actions could result in a loss of sales and profit. the company may experience temporary or long-term disruptions in its supply chain, as the outbreak has resulted in travel disruptions and has impacted manufacturing and distribution throughout the world. we anticipate that the receipt of products or raw material sourced from impacted areas will be slowed or disrupted in the coming months and our brand partners are expected to face similar challenges in fulfilling our orders for their merchandise. furthermore, transportation delays and cost increases, more extensive travel restrictions, closures or disruptions of businesses and facilities or social, economic, political or labor instability in the affected areas, may impact our or our suppliers' operations or our customers. the company may be required to change its plan for inventory receipts which would place financial pressure on our brand partners. such actions may negatively impact our relationships with our brand partners or adversely impact their financial performance and position. if this occurs, our current brand partners' ability to meet their obligations to the company may be impacted or we may also be required to identify new brand partner relationships. the company's liquidity may be negatively impacted if its stores do not resume normal operations and the company may be required to pursue additional sources of financing to meet its financial obligations. obtaining such financing is not guaranteed and is largely dependent upon market conditions and other factors. further actions may be required to improve the company's cash position, including but not limited to, monetizing company assets, implementing employee furloughs, and foregoing capital expenditures and other discretionary expenses. the extent of the impact of covid-19 on the company's operations and financial results depends on future developments and is highly uncertain due to the unknown duration and severity of the outbreak. the situation is changing rapidly and future impacts may materialize that are not yet known. 6 strategic, operational and competitive risks our strategic initiatives may not be successful, which could negatively affect our profitability and growth. in february 2020, we announced the polaris strategy, a three-year plan designed to stabilize profitability and position the company for sustainable, profitable growth. our ability to achieve sustainable, profitable growth is subject to the successful implementation of our strategic plans, including the polaris strategy, and realization of anticipated benefits and savings. if these investments or initiatives do not perform as expected or create implementation or operational challenges, we may incur impairment charges and our profitability and growth could suffer. our sales and operating results depend on consumer preferences and consumer spending. the fashion and retail industries are subject to sudden shifts in consumer trends and consumer spending. our sales and operating results depend in part on our ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. we develop new retail concepts and continuously adjust our industry position in certain major and private-label brands and product categories in an effort to attract and retain customers. any sustained failure to anticipate, identify and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and consumer preferences could negatively affect our business and results of operations. our sales are significantly affected by discretionary spending by consumers. consumer spending may be affected by many factors outside of our control, including general economic conditions, consumer disposable income levels, consumer confidence levels, the availability, cost and level of consumer debt, consumer behaviors towards incurring and paying debt, the cost of basic necessities and other goods, the strength of the u.s. dollar relative to foreign currencies and the effects of the weather, natural disasters or health pandemics. these factors can have psychological or economic impacts on consumers that affect their discretionary spending habits. any decline in discretionary spending by consumers could negatively affect our business and results of operations. we face significant competition in the retail industry. we conduct our retail merchandising business under highly competitive conditions. although macy's is one of the nation's largest retailers, we have numerous and varied competitors at the national and local levels, including department stores, specialty stores, general merchandise stores, manufacturers' outlets, off-price and discount stores, online retailers, catalogs and television shopping, among others. competition is characterized by many factors, including assortment, advertising, price, quality, service, location, reputation and credit availability. any failure by us to compete effectively could negatively affect our business and results of operations. we face challenges as consumers migrate to online shopping and we depend on our ability to differentiate macy's in retail's ever-changing environment. as consumers continue to migrate online, we face pressures to not only compete from a price perspective with our competitors, some of whom sell the same products, but also to differentiate macy's to stay relevant in retail's ever-changing environment. we continue to significantly invest in our omnichannel capabilities to provide a seamless shopping experience to our customers between our store locations and our online and mobile environments. insufficient, untimely or misguided investments in this area could significantly impact our profitability and growth and affect our ability to attract new customers, as well as maintain our existing ones. in addition, declining customer store traffic and migration of sales from brick and mortar stores to digital platforms could lead to additional store closures, restructuring and other costs that could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. our ability to grow depends in part on our stores remaining relevant to customers. we are investing in facilities and fixtures upgrades, merchandise assortment and customer service in selected stores to improve customer retention rates and overall customer satisfaction. some stores are receiving targeted local marketing plans to drive customer traffic. while these stores with the "growth treatment" have outperformed the remainder of our store fleet, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve continued improvement in our store business. because we rely on the ability of our physical retail locations to remain relevant to customers, providing desirable and sought-out shopping experiences is critical to our financial success. changes in consumer shopping habits, financial difficulties at other anchor tenants, significant mall vacancy issues, mall violence and new on- and off-mall developments could each adversely impact the traffic at current retail locations and lead to a decline in our financial condition or performance. 7 we may not be able to successfully execute our real estate strategy. we continue to explore opportunities to monetize our real estate portfolio, including sales of stores as well as non-store real estate such as warehouses, outparcels and parking garages. we also continue to evaluate our real estate portfolio to identify opportunities where the redevelopment value of our real estate exceeds the value of non-strategic operating locations. this strategy is multi-pronged and may include transactions, strategic alliances or other arrangements with mall developers or other unrelated third-parties. due to the cyclical nature of real estate markets, the performance of our real estate strategy is inherently volatile and could have a significant impact on our results of operations or financial condition. our revenues and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of our business. our business is seasonal, with a high proportion of revenues and operating cash flows generated during the second half of the year, which includes the fall and holiday selling seasons. a disproportionate amount of our revenues is in the fourth quarter, which coincides with the holiday season. should holiday sales fall below our expectations, a disproportionately negative impact on our results of operations could occur. we incur significant additional expenses in the period leading up to the months of november and december in anticipation of higher sales volume in those periods, including costs for additional inventory, advertising and employees. if we are not successful in selling inventory, we may have to sell the inventory at significantly reduced prices or may not be able to sell the inventory at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. we depend on our ability to attract, train, develop and retain quality employees. our business is dependent upon attracting, training, developing and retaining quality employees. macy's has a large number of employees, many of whom are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. the ability to meet our labor needs while controlling costs associated with hiring and training new employees is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. in addition, as a large and complex enterprise operating in a highly competitive and challenging business environment, macy's is highly dependent upon management personnel to develop and effectively execute successful business strategies and tactics. any circumstances that adversely impact our ability to attract, train, develop and retain quality employees throughout the organization could negatively affect our business and results of operations. we depend on the success of advertising and marketing programs. our business depends on effective marketing to create high customer traffic at stores and online. macy's has many initiatives in this area, and we often change advertising and marketing programs to attract customers and increase sales. there can be no assurance as to our continued ability to effectively execute our advertising and marketing programs, and any failure to do so could negatively affect our business and results of operations. if cash flows from our private label credit card decrease, our financial and operational results may be negatively impacted. we previously sold most of our credit accounts and related receivables to citibank. following the sale, we share in the economic performance of the credit card program with citibank. deterioration in economic or political conditions could adversely affect the volume of new credit accounts, the amount of credit card program balances and the ability of credit card holders to pay their balances. these conditions could result in macy's receiving lower payments under the credit card program. credit card operations are subject to many federal and state laws that may impose certain requirements and limitations on credit card providers. citibank and our subsidiary bank, fds bank, may be required to comply with regulations that may negatively impact the operation of our private label credit card. this negative impact may affect our revenue streams derived from the sale of such credit card accounts and our financial results. gross margins could suffer if we are unable to effectively manage our inventory. our profitability depends on our ability to manage inventory levels and respond to shifts in consumer demand patterns. overestimating customer demand for merchandise will likely result in the need to record inventory markdowns and sell excess inventory at clearance prices which would negatively impact our gross margins and operating results. underestimating customer demand for merchandise can lead to inventory shortages, missed sales opportunities and negative customer experiences. our defined benefit plan funding requirements or plan settlement expense could impact our financial results and cash flow. significant changes in interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and timing and amount of benefit payments could affect the funded status of our plans and could increase future funding requirements of the plans. a 8 significant increase in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. these plans allow eligible retiring employees to receive lump sum distributions of benefits earned. under applicable accounting rules, if annual lump sum distributions exceed an actuarially determined threshold of the total of the annual service and interest costs, we would be required to recognize in the current period of operations a settlement expense of a portion of the unrecognized actuarial loss and could have a negative impact on our results of operations. increases in labor costs and the cost of employee benefits could impact our financial results and cash flow. minimum wage increases by states and wage and benefit increases to attract and retain workers in a tight labor market have driven-up labor costs in the retail sector. these increased costs pressure our margins and could have a negative impact on our financial results. our expenses relating to employee health benefits are significant. unfavorable changes in the cost of such benefits could negatively affect our financial results and cash flow. healthcare costs have risen significantly in recent years, and recent legislative and private sector initiatives regarding healthcare reform have resulted and could continue to result in significant changes to the u.s. healthcare system. due to uncertainty regarding legislative or regulatory changes, we are not able to fully determine the impact that future healthcare reform will have on our company-sponsored medical plans. if our company's reputation and brand are not maintained at a high level, our operations and financial results may suffer. we believe our reputation and brand are partially based on the perception that we act equitably and honestly in dealing with our customers, employees, business partners and shareholders. our reputation and brand may be deteriorated by any incident that erodes the trust or confidence of our customers or the general public, particularly if the incident results in significant adverse publicity or governmental inquiry. in addition, information concerning us, whether or not true, may be instantly and easily posted on social media platforms at any time, which information may be adverse to our reputation or brand. the harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction. if our reputation or brand is damaged, our customers may refuse to continue shopping with us, potential employees may be unwilling to work for us, business partners may be discouraged from seeking future business dealings with us and, as a result, our operations and financial results may suffer. if we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our brands and business could be damaged. we believe that our copyrights, trademarks, trade dress, trade secrets and similar intellectual property are important assets and key elements of our strategy, including those related to our private brand merchandise. we rely on copyright and trademark law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and others to protect our proprietary rights. if the steps we take to protect our proprietary rights are inadequate, or if we are unable to protect or preserve the value of our copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other proprietary rights for any reason, our merchandise brands and business could be negatively affected. our sales and operating results could be adversely affected by product safety concerns. if macy's merchandise offerings do not meet applicable safety standards or consumers' expectations regarding safety, we could experience decreased sales, increased costs and/or be exposed to legal and reputational risk. events that give rise to actual, potential or perceived product safety concerns could expose macy's to government enforcement action and/or private litigation. reputational damage caused by real or perceived product safety concerns could negatively affect our business and results of operations. a shutdown or disruption in our distribution and fulfillment centers could have an adverse impact on our business and operations. our business depends on the orderly receipt and distribution of merchandise and effective management of our distribution and fulfillment centers. unforeseen disruptions in operations due to fire, severe weather conditions, natural disasters, health pandemics or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements, or other shipping problems may result in the loss or unavailability of inventory and/or delays in the delivery of merchandise to our stores and customers. technology and data security risks a material disruption in our information technology systems could adversely affect our business or results of operations. we rely extensively on our information technology systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. our information technology systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and 9 telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber-attack or other security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, acts of war or terrorism, and usage errors by our employees. if our information technology systems are damaged or cease to function properly, including a material disruption in our ability to authorize and process transactions at our stores or on our online systems, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and we may suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in our operations. any material interruption in our information technology systems could negatively affect our business and results of operations. in addition, covid-19 may have an adverse impact on our information technology systems, including telecommuting issues associated with our employee population working remotely or an increase in online orders due to disruptions or closures of our retail store operations. if our technology-based e-commerce systems do not function properly, our operating results could be negatively affected. customers are increasingly using computers, tablets and smart phones to shop online and to do price and comparison shopping. we strive to anticipate and meet our customers' changing expectations and are focused on building a seamless shopping experience across our omnichannel business. any failure to provide user-friendly, secure e-commerce platforms that offer a variety of merchandise at competitive prices with low cost and quick delivery options that meet customers' expectations could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of e-commerce and other sales, harm our reputation with customers and have a material adverse impact on the growth of our business and our operating results. a breach of information technology systems could adversely affect our reputation, business partner and customer relationships and operations, and result in high costs. through our sales, marketing activities, and use of third-party information, we collect and store certain non-public personal information that customers provide to purchase products or services, enroll in promotional programs, register on websites, or otherwise communicate to us. this may include phone numbers, driver license numbers, contact preferences, personal information stored on electronic devices, and payment information, including credit and debit card data. we gather and retain information about employees in the normal course of business. we may share information about such persons with vendors that assist with certain aspects of our business. in addition, our online operations depend upon the transmission of confidential information over the internet, such as information permitting cashless payments. we employ safeguards for the protection of this information and have made significant investments to secure access to our information technology network. for instance, we have implemented authentication protocols, installed firewalls and anti-virus/anti-malware software, conducted continuous risk assessments, and established data security breach preparedness and response plans. we also employ encryption and other methods to protect our data, promote security awareness with our associates and work with business partners in an effort to create secure and compliant systems. however, these protections may be compromised as a result of third-party security breaches, burglaries, cyberattacks, errors by employees or employees of third-party vendors, or contractors, misappropriation of data by employees, vendors or unaffiliated third-parties, or other irregularities that may result in persons obtaining unauthorized access to company data. retail data frequently targeted by cybercriminals includes consumer credit card data, personally identifiable information, including social security numbers, and health care information. for retailers, point of sale and e-commerce websites are often attacked through compromised credentials, including those obtained through phishing, vishing and credential stuffing. other methods of attack include advanced malware, the exploitation of software and operating vulnerabilities, and physical device tampering/skimming at card reader units. we believe these attack methods will continue to evolve. despite instituting controls for the protection of such information, no commercial or government entity can be entirely free of vulnerability to attack or compromise given that the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service change frequently. during the normal course of business, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience attempts to compromise our information systems. unauthorized parties may attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through fraud, trickery, or other forms of deception to employees, contractors, vendors and temporary staff. we may be unable to protect the integrity of our systems or company data. an alleged or actual unauthorized access or unauthorized disclosure of non-public personal information could: materially damage our reputation and brand, negatively affect customer satisfaction and loyalty, expose us to individual claims or consumer class actions, administrative, civil or criminal investigations or actions, and infringe on proprietary information; and 10 cause us to incur substantial costs, including costs associated with remediation of information technology systems, customer protection costs and incentive payments for the maintenance of business relationships, litigation costs, lost revenues resulting from negative changes in consumer shopping patterns, unauthorized use of proprietary information or the failure to retain or attract customers following an attack. while we maintain insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be unavailable or insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise in the continually evolving area of cyber risk. supply chain and third party risks we depend upon vendors and other sources of merchandise, goods and services outside the u.s.. our business could be affected by disruptions in, or other legal, regulatory, political, economic or public health issues associated with, our supply network. we depend on vendors for timely and efficient access to products we sell. we source the majority of our merchandise from manufacturers located outside the u.s., primarily asia. any major changes in tax policy, such as the disallowance of tax deductions for imported merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and liquidity. the procurement of all our goods and services is subject to the effects of price increases, which we may or may not be able to pass through to our customers. in addition, our procurement of goods and services from outside the u.s. is subject to risks associated with political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs, health pandemics and other factors relating to foreign trade. all of these factors may affect our ability to access suitable merchandise on acceptable terms, are beyond our control and could negatively affect our business, results of operations and liquidity. the u.s. has been engaged in extended trade negotiations with china, which has resulted in the implementation of tariffs on a significant number of products manufactured in china and imported into the u.s. on may 10, 2019, the current u.s. administration imposed a 25% tariff on approximately $200 billion worth of imports from china into the u.s. (the stage 3 tariffs ), which imports include merchandise for both private-label and national brands sold in our stores. on august 1, 2019, the current u.s. administration announced its intent to impose a 10% tariff on all remaining imports from china, valued at approximately $300 billion (the stage 4 tariffs ), which imports also include merchandise sold in our stores. the proposed stage 4 tariffs were increased to 15% in august 2019 following retaliatory tariffs from china, and a portion of such 15% tariffs went into effect on september 1, 2019 (the stage 4a tariffs ). subsequently, in october 2019, the current u.s. administration announced the suspension of the remaining new 15% tariffs (the stage 4b tariffs ) following positive negotiations with china. on january 15, 2020, the u.s. and china signed an agreement known as the phase one trade deal, pursuant to which, among other things, the stage 3 tariffs remained unchanged, the stage 4a tariffs were reduced from 15% to 7.5%, and the stage 4b tariffs were indefinitely suspended. we continue to evaluate the impact of the effective tariffs, including potential future retaliatory tariffs, as well as other recent changes in foreign trade policy on our supply chain, costs, sales and profitability, and are actively working through strategies to mitigate such impact, including reviewing sourcing options and working with our vendors and merchants. at this time, it is unknown how long u.s. tariffs on chinese goods will remain in effect or whether additional tariffs will be imposed. depending upon their duration and implementation, as well as our ability to mitigate their impact, these changes in foreign trade policy and any recently enacted, proposed and future tariffs on products imported by us from china could negatively impact our business, results of operations and liquidity if they seriously disrupt the movement of products through our supply chain or increase their cost. in addition, while we may be able to shift our sourcing options, executing such a shift would be time consuming and would be difficult or impracticable for many products and may result in an increase in our manufacturing costs. the adoption and expansion of trade restrictions, retaliatory tariffs, or other governmental action related to tariffs or international trade agreements or policies has the potential to adversely impact demand for our products, our costs, our customers, our suppliers, and/or the u.s. economy, which in turn could adversely impact our results of operations and business. if our vendors, or any raw material vendors on which our vendors or our private label business relies, suffer prolonged manufacturing or transportation disruptions due to public health conditions or other unforeseen events, such as the covid-19 pandemic, our ability to source product could be adversely impacted which would adversely affect our results of operations. 11 disruption of global sourcing activities and quality and other concerns over our own brands could negatively impact brand reputation and earnings. economic and civil unrest in areas of the world where we source products, as well as shipping and dockage issues, could adversely impact the availability or cost of our products, or both. most of macy's goods imported to the u.s. arrive from asia through ports located on the u.s. west coast and are subject to potential disruption due to labor unrest, security issues or natural disasters affecting any or all of these ports. in addition, in recent years, we have substantially increased the number and types of merchandise that are sold under macy's proprietary brands. while we have focused on the quality of our proprietary branded products, we rely on third-parties to manufacture these products. such third-party manufacturers may prove to be unreliable, the quality of our globally sourced products may vary from expectations and standards, the products may not meet applicable regulatory requirements which may require us to recall these products, or the products may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third-parties. we face challenges in seeking indemnities from manufacturers of these products, including the uncertainty of recovering on such indemnity and the lack of understanding by manufacturers of u.s. product liability laws in certain foreign jurisdictions. we also face concerns relating to human rights, working conditions and other labor rights and conditions and environmental impact in factories or countries where merchandise that we sell is produced and concerns about transparent sourcing and supply chains. we require all vendors for both private and national brands to comply with our vendor and supplier code of conduct which outlines minimum standards to help ensure our merchandise is produced in workplaces free of abusive, exploitative or unsafe working conditions, and to comply with applicable laws and regulations of the united states and the country of manufacture or exportation. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with laws and regulations relating to production of merchandise, doing business in foreign countries and importing merchandise, and to screen, train and monitor our private label vendors to ensure safe and ethical treatment of workers in our supply chain, there can be no assurance that our vendors and other third parties with whom we do business will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies, which could subject us to liability and could adversely impact our reputation, results of operations and business. parties with whom macy's does business may be subject to insolvency risks or may otherwise become unable or unwilling to perform on their obligations to us. macy's is a party to contracts, transactions and business relationships with various third parties, including, without limitation, vendors, suppliers, service providers, lenders and participants in joint ventures, strategic alliances and other joint commercial relationships, pursuant to which such third parties have performance, payment and other obligations to macy's. in some cases, we depend upon such third parties to provide essential leaseholds, products, services or other benefits, including with respect to store and distribution center locations, merchandise, advertising, software development and support, logistics, other agreements for goods and services to operate our business in the ordinary course, extensions of credit, credit card accounts and related receivables, and other vital matters. current economic, industry and market conditions could result in increased risks to macy's associated with the potential financial distress or insolvency of such third parties. if any of these third parties were to become subject to bankruptcy, receivership or similar proceedings, the rights and benefits with respect to our contracts, transactions and business relationships with such third parties could be terminated, modified in a manner adverse to us, or otherwise impaired. we may be unable to arrange for alternate or replacement contracts, transactions or business relationships on terms as favorable as existing contracts, transactions or business relationships. our inability to do so could negatively affect our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. global, legal and external risks macy's business is subject to unfavorable economic and political conditions, extreme violence and other related risks. unfavorable global, domestic or regional economic or political conditions and other developments and risks could negatively affect our business and results of operations. for example, unfavorable changes related to interest rates, rates of economic growth, fiscal and monetary policies of governments, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, consumer debt payment behaviors, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, energy prices, and other matters that influence the availability and cost of merchandise, consumer confidence, spending and tourism could negatively affect our business and results of operations. in addition, unstable political conditions, civil unrest, terrorist activities, armed conflicts or events of extreme violence may disrupt commerce and could negatively affect our business and results of operations. 12 our business could be affected by extreme weather conditions, natural disasters or regional or global health pandemics. extreme weather conditions in the areas in which our stores are located could negatively affect our business and results of operations. for example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rainstorms or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores and thereby reduce our sales and profitability. our business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. for example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could reduce demand for a portion of our inventory and thereby reduce our sales and profitability. in addition, extreme weather conditions could result in disruption or delay of production and delivery of materials and products in our supply chain and cause staffing shortages in our stores. natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes and earthquakes, or a combination of these or other factors, could damage or destroy our facilities or make it difficult for customers to travel to our stores, thereby negatively affecting our business and results of operations. our business and results of operations could also be negatively affected if a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its location, duration and severity. customers might avoid public places, such as our stores, or in extreme cases governments might limit or ban public gatherings or travel, resulting in temporary store closures or changes in consumer spending behavior. a regional or global health pandemic might also result in disruption or delay of production and delivery of materials and products in our supply chain and cause staffing shortages in our stores. litigation, legislation or regulatory developments could adversely affect our business and results of operations. we are subject to various federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations, inquiries and initiatives in connection with both our core business operations and our credit card and other ancillary operations (including the credit card act of 2009 and the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010). recent and future developments relating to such matters could increase our compliance costs and adversely affect the profitability of our credit card and other operations. our effective tax rate is impacted by a number of factors, including changes in federal or state tax law, interpretation of existing laws and the ability to defend and support the tax positions taken on historical tax returns. certain changes in any of these factors could materially impact the effective tax rate and net income. we are also subject to anti-bribery, customs, child labor, truth-in-advertising and other laws, including consumer protection regulations and zoning and occupancy ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities. although we undertake to monitor changes in these laws, if these laws change without our knowledge, or are violated by importers, designers, manufacturers, distributors or agents, we could experience delays in shipments and receipt of goods or be subject to fines or other penalties under the controlling regulations, any of which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. in addition, we are regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of our business. adverse outcomes in current or future litigation could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. financial risks inability to access capital markets could adversely affect our business or financial condition. changes in the credit and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate fluctuations, may increase the cost of financing or restrict our access to this potential source of future liquidity. a decrease in the ratings that rating agencies assign to macy's short and long-term debt may negatively impact our access to the debt capital markets and increase our cost of borrowing. in addition, our bank credit agreements require us to maintain specified interest coverage and leverage ratios. our ability to comply with the ratios may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. if our results of operations or operating ratios deteriorate to a point where we are not in compliance with our debt covenants, and we are unable to obtain a waiver, much of our debt would be in default and could become due and payable immediately. our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full this indebtedness, resulting in a need for an alternate source of funding. we cannot make any assurances that we would be able to obtain such an alternate source of funding on satisfactory terms, if at all, and our inability to do so could cause the holders of our securities to experience a partial or total loss of their investments in macy's. factors beyond our control could affect macy's stock price. macy's stock price, like that of other retail companies, is subject to significant volatility because of many factors, including factors beyond our control. these factors may include: 13 general economic, stock, credit and real estate market conditions; risks relating to macy's business and industry, including those discussed above; strategic actions by us or our competitors; adverse business announcements by our competitors; variations in our quarterly results of operations; future sales or purchases of macy's common stock; and investor perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with macy's common stock relative to other investment alternatives. we may fail to meet the expectations of our stockholders or of analysts at some time in the future. if the analysts who regularly follow macy's stock lower their rating or lower their projections for future growth and financial performance, macy's stock price could decline. also, sales of a substantial number of shares of macy's common stock in the public market or the appearance that these shares are available for sale could adversely affect the market price of macy's common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that may adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in seeking to minimize the risks from interest rate fluctuations, the company manages exposures through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company does not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and is not a party to any leveraged financial instruments. the company is exposed to interest rate risk through its borrowing activities, which are described in note 6, financing, to the consolidated financial statements. all of the company's borrowings are under fixed rate instruments. however, the company, from time to time, may use interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to help manage its exposure to interest rate movements and reduce borrowing costs. at february 1, 2020 , the company was not a party to any derivative financial instruments and based on the company's lack of market risk sensitive instruments outstanding at february 1, 2020 , the company has determined that there was no material market risk exposure to the company's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of such date.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates which may adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in seeking to minimize the risks from interest rate fluctuations, the company manages exposures through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company does not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and is not a party to any leveraged financial instruments. the company is exposed to interest rate risk primarily through its customer lending and borrowing activities, which are described in notes 6 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements. the majority of the company borrowings are under fixed rate instruments. however, the company, from time to time, may use interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to help manage its exposure to interest rate movements and reduce borrowing costs. see notes 10 and 17 to the consolidated financial statements, which are incorporated herein by reference. based on the company market risk sensitive instruments (including variable rate debt and derivative financial instruments) outstanding at february 1, 2003, the company has determined that there was no material market risk exposure to the company consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of such date.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates which may adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in seeking to minimize the risks from interest rate fluctuations, the company manages exposures through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company does not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and is not a party to any leveraged financial instruments. the company is exposed to interest rate risk primarily through its customer lending and borrowing activities, which are described in notes 5 and 9 to the consolidated financial statements. the majority of the company borrowings are under fixed rate instruments. however, the company, from time to time, may use interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to help manage its exposure to interest rate movements and reduce borrowing costs. at january 31, 2004, the company was not a party to any derivative financial instruments. see notes 9 and 16 to the consolidated financial statements, which are incorporated herein by reference. based on the company market risk sensitive instruments (primarily variable rate debt) outstanding at january 31, 2004, the company has determined that there was no material market risk exposure to the company consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of such date. 19 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates which may adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in seeking to minimize the risks from interest rate fluctuations, the company manages exposures through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company does not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and is not a party to any leveraged financial instruments. the company is exposed to interest rate risk primarily through its customer lending and borrowing activities, which are described in notes 3 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements. the majority of the company borrowings are under fixed rate instruments. however, the company, from time to time, may use interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to help manage its exposure to interest rate movements and reduce borrowing costs. at january 29, 2005, the company was not a party to any derivative financial instruments. see notes 7 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements, which are incorporated herein by reference. based on the company market risk sensitive instruments (primarily variable rate debt) outstanding at january 29, 2005, the company has determined that there was no material market risk exposure to the company consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of such date.risk factors. in evaluating the company, the risks described below and the matters described in forward-looking statements should be considered carefully. such risks and matters could significantly and adversely affect the company business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the company faces significant competition in the retail industry. the company conducts its retail merchandising business under highly competitive conditions. although the company is one of the nation largest retailers, it has numerous and varied competitors at the national and local levels, including conventional and specialty department stores, other specialty stores, mass merchants, value retailers, discounters, and internet and mail-order retailers. competition is characterized by many factors, including assortment, advertising, price, quality, service, location, reputation and credit availability. if the company does not compete effectively with regard to these factors, its results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 6 the company sales and operating results depend on consumer preferences and consumer spending. the fashion and retail industries are subject to sudden shifts in consumer trends and consumer spending. the company sales and operating results depend in part on its ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. the company develops new retail concepts and continuously adjusts its industry position in certain major and private-label brands and product categories in an effort to satisfy customers. any sustained failure to identify and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and consumer preferences could have a material adverse affect on the company business. consumer spending may be affected by many factors outside of the company control, including competition from store-based retailers, mail-order and internet companies, consumer confidence and preferences, consumers disposable income, weather that affects consumer traffic and general economic conditions. the company business could be affected by extreme weather conditions or natural disasters. extreme weather conditions in the areas in which the company stores are located could adversely affect the company business. for example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rain storms or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for the company customers to travel to its stores and thereby reduce the company sales and profitability. in addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes and earthquakes could severely damage or destroy one or more of the company stores or warehouses located in the affected areas, thereby disrupting the company business operations. the company business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. for example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of the company inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions. reduced sales from extreme or prolonged unseasonable weather conditions could adversely affect the company business. the company revenues and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of its business. the company business is seasonal, with a high proportion of revenues and operating cash flows generated during the second half of the fiscal year, which includes the fall and holiday selling seasons. the company has in the past experienced significant fluctuations in its revenues from quarter to quarter with a disproportionate amount of revenues falling in the fourth fiscal quarter, which coincides with the holiday season. in addition, the company incurs significant additional expenses in the period leading up to the months of november and december in anticipation of higher sales volume in those periods, including for additional inventory, advertising and employees. the company business is subject to unfavorable economic and political conditions and other developments and risks. unfavorable global, domestic or regional economic or political conditions and other developments and risks could negatively affect the company business. for example, unfavorable changes related to interest rates, rates of economic growth, fiscal and monetary policies of governments, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, oil prices and other matters that influence the availability and cost of merchandise, consumer confidence, spending and tourism could adversely impact the company growth. in addition, unstable political conditions or civil unrest, including terrorist activities and worldwide military and domestic disturbances and conflicts, could have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. 7 the benefits expected to be realized from the may acquisition are subject to various risks, and the company failure to integrate may successfully or on a timely basis into the company operations could reduce the company profitability. the company acquisition of may during the third quarter of 2005 was a significant acquisition for the company. the company success in fully realizing the anticipated benefits from the acquisition will depend in large part on achieving anticipated synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects. there can be no assurance that these synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects will materialize, and the company ability to benefit from the may acquisition is subject to both the risks affecting the company business generally and the difficulties associated with integrating large business organizations. in addition, there can be no assurance that the company execution of its post-merger strategy to rebrand may stores will improve its operating performance. the failure of the company to realize the benefits expected to result from the may acquisition could have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company growth may strain operations, which could adversely affect the company business and financial performance. with the acquisition of may, the company business has grown dramatically. accordingly, sales, number of stores and number of associates have grown and likely will continue to grow. this growth places significant demands on management and operational systems. if the company is unable to effectively manage its growth, operational inefficiencies could occur and, as a result, the company business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the company depends upon the success of its advertising and marketing programs. the company advertising and promotional costs, net of cooperative advertising allowances, amounted to $1,076 million for 2005. the company business depends on high customer traffic in its stores and effective marketing. the company has many initiatives in this area, and often changes its advertising and marketing programs. there can be no assurance as to the company continued ability to effectively execute its advertising and marketing programs, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. a material disruption in the company computer systems could adversely affect the company business or results of operations. the company relies extensively on its computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage its business. the company computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by the company employees. if the company computer systems are damaged or cease to function properly, the company may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and the company may suffer interruptions in its operations in the interim. any material interruption in the company computer systems could adversely affect its business or results of operations. 8 if the company is unable to attract and retain quality associates, its business could be adversely affected. the company business is dependent upon attracting and retaining a large and growing number of quality associates. many of these associates are in entry level or part time positions with historically high rates of turnover. the company ability to meet its labor needs while controlling its costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. changes that adversely impact the company ability to attract and retain quality associates could adversely affect the company business. the company is subject to numerous regulations that could adversely affect its business. the company is subject to customs, truth-in -advertising and other laws, including consumer protection regulations and zoning and occupancy ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities. although the company undertakes to monitor changes in these laws, if these laws change without the company knowledge, or are violated by importers, designers, manufacturers or distributors, the company could experience delays in shipments and receipt of goods or be subject to fines or other penalties under the controlling regulations, any of which could adversely affect the company business. litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect the company business or financial condition. the company is subject to various federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations, which may change from time to time. in addition, the company is regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of its business. litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect the company business and financial condition. factors beyond the company control could affect the company stock price. the company stock price, like that of other retail companies, is subject to significant volatility because of many factors, including factors beyond the control of the company. these factors include: general economic and stock market conditions; risks relating to the company business and its industry, including those discussed above; strategic actions by the company or its competitors; variations in the company quarterly results of operations; future sales of the company common stock; and investor perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with the company common stock relative to other investment alternatives. in addition, the company may fail to meet the expectations of its stockholders or of analysts at some time in the future. if the analysts that regularly follow the company stock lower their rating or lower their projections for future growth and financial performance, the company stock price could decline. also, sales of a substantial number of shares of the company common stock in the public market or the appearance that these shares are available for sale could adversely affect the market price for company common stock. 9 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates which may adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in seeking to minimize the risks from interest rate fluctuations, the company manages exposures through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company does not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and is not a party to any leveraged financial instruments. the company is exposed to interest rate risk primarily through its customer lending and borrowing activities, which are described in notes 6 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements. the majority of the company borrowings are under fixed rate instruments. however, the company, from time to time, may use interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to help manage its exposure to interest rate movements and reduce borrowing costs. at january 28, 2006, the company was not a party to any derivative financial instruments. see notes 10 and 17 to the consolidated financial statements, which are incorporated herein by reference. based on the company market risk sensitive instruments (primarily variable rate debt) outstanding at january 28, 2006, the company has determined that there was no material market risk exposure to the company consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of such date. 24risk factors. in evaluating the company, the risks described below and the matters described in forward-looking statements should be considered carefully. such risks and matters could significantly and adversely affect the company business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the company faces significant competition in the retail industry. the company conducts its retail merchandising business under highly competitive conditions. although the company is one of the nation largest retailers, it has numerous and varied competitors at the national and local levels, including conventional and specialty department stores, other specialty stores, category killers, mass merchants, value retailers, discounters, and internet and mail-order retailers. competition may intensify as the company competitors enter into business combinations or alliances. competition is characterized by many factors, including assortment, advertising, price, quality, service, location, reputation and credit availability. if the company does not compete effectively with regard to these factors, its results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the company sales and operating results depend on consumer preferences and consumer spending. the fashion and retail industries are subject to sudden shifts in consumer trends and consumer spending. the company sales and operating results depend in part on its ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. the company develops new retail concepts and continuously adjusts its industry position in certain major and private-label brands and product categories in an effort to satisfy customers. any sustained failure to anticipate, identify and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and consumer preferences could have a material adverse affect on the company business. consumer spending may be affected by many factors outside of the company control, including competition from 6 table of contents store-based retailers, mail-order and internet companies, consumer confidence and preferences, consumers disposable income, weather that affects consumer traffic and general economic conditions. a privacy breach could adversely affect the company business. the protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to the company. the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements across business units. in addition, customers have a high expectation that the company will adequately protect their personal information. a significant breach of customer, employee, or company data could damage the company reputation and result in lost sales, fines, or lawsuits. the company depends upon its relationships with designers, vendors and other sources of merchandise. the company relationships with established and emerging designers have been a significant contributor to the company past success. the company ability to find qualified vendors and access products in a timely and efficient manner is often challenging, particularly with respect to goods sourced outside the united states. political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs and other factors relating to foreign trade, each of which affects the company ability to access suitable merchandise on acceptable terms, are beyond the company control and could adversely impact the company performance. the company business could be affected by extreme weather conditions or natural disasters. extreme weather conditions in the areas in which the company stores are located could adversely affect the company business. for example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rain storms or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for the company customers to travel to its stores and thereby reduce the company sales and profitability. the company business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. for example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of the company inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions. reduced sales from extreme or prolonged unseasonable weather conditions could adversely affect the company business. in addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes and earthquakes, or a combination of these or other factors, could severely damage or destroy one or more of the company stores or warehouses located in the affected areas, thereby disrupting the company business operations. a regional or global health pandemic could severely affect the company business. a health pandemic is a disease that spreads rapidly and widely by infection and affects many individuals in an area or population at the same time. if a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its location, duration and severity, the company business could be severely affected. customers might avoid public places in the event of a health pandemic, and local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or delay the spread of disease. a regional or global health pandemic might also adversely impact the company business by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in its supply chain and by causing staffing shortages in its stores. 7 table of contents the company revenues and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of its business. the company business is seasonal, with a high proportion of revenues and operating cash flows generated during the second half of the fiscal year, which includes the fall and holiday selling seasons. the company has in the past experienced significant fluctuations in its revenues from quarter to quarter with a disproportionate amount of revenues falling in the fourth fiscal quarter, which coincides with the holiday season. in addition, the company incurs significant additional expenses in the period leading up to the months of november and december in anticipation of higher sales volume in those periods, including for additional inventory, advertising and employees. the company business is subject to unfavorable economic and political conditions and other developments and risks. unfavorable global, domestic or regional economic or political conditions and other developments and risks could negatively affect the company business. for example, unfavorable changes related to interest rates, rates of economic growth, fiscal and monetary policies of governments, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, oil prices, and other matters that influence the availability and cost of merchandise, consumer confidence, spending and tourism could adversely impact the company business and results of operations. in addition, unstable political conditions or civil unrest, including terrorist activities and worldwide military and domestic disturbances and conflicts, may disrupt commerce and could have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company growth may strain operations, which could adversely affect the company business and financial performance. with the acquisition of may, the company business has grown dramatically. accordingly, sales, number of stores and number of associates have grown and likely will continue to grow. this growth places significant demands on management and operational systems. if the company is unable to effectively manage its growth, operational inefficiencies could occur and, as a result, the company business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the company depends upon the success of its advertising and marketing programs. the company advertising and promotional costs, net of cooperative advertising allowances, amounted to $1,171 million for 2006. the company business depends on high customer traffic in its stores and effective marketing. the company has many initiatives in this area, and often changes its advertising and marketing programs. there can be no assurance as to the company continued ability to effectively execute its advertising and marketing programs, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. a material disruption in the company computer systems could adversely affect the company business or results of operations. the company relies extensively on its computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage its business. the company computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, acts of war or terrorism, and usage errors by the 8 table of contents company employees. if the company computer systems are damaged or cease to function properly, the company may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and the company may suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in its operations in the interim. any material interruption in the company computer systems could adversely affect its business or results of operations. if the company is unable to attract and retain quality employees, its business could be adversely affected. the company business is dependent upon attracting and retaining a large and growing number of quality employees. many of these employees are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. the company ability to meet its labor needs while controlling the costs associated with hiring and training new employees is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. changes that adversely impact the company ability to attract and retain quality employees could adversely affect the company business. the company is subject to numerous regulations that could adversely affect its business. the company is subject to customs, truth-in-advertising and other laws, including consumer protection regulations and zoning and occupancy ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities. although the company undertakes to monitor changes in these laws, if these laws change without the company knowledge, or are violated by importers, designers, manufacturers or distributors, the company could experience delays in shipments and receipt of goods or be subject to fines or other penalties under the controlling regulations, any of which could adversely affect the company business. litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect the company business or financial condition. the company is subject to various federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations, which may change from time to time. in addition, the company is regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of its business. litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect the company business and financial condition. factors beyond the company control could affect the company stock price. the company stock price, like that of other retail companies, is subject to significant volatility because of many factors, including factors beyond the control of the company. these factors may include: general economic and stock market conditions; risks relating to the company business and its industry, including those discussed above; strategic actions by the company or its competitors; variations in the company quarterly results of operations; future sales or purchases of the company common stock; and investor perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with the company common stock relative to other investment alternatives. in addition, the company may fail to meet the expectations of its stockholders or of analysts at some time in the future. if the analysts that regularly follow the company stock lower their rating or lower their 9 table of contents projections for future growth and financial performance, the company stock price could decline. also, sales of a substantial number of shares of the company common stock in the public market or the appearance that these shares are available for sale could adversely affect the market price of the company common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that may adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in seeking to minimize the risks from interest rate fluctuations, the company manages exposures through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company does not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and is not a party to any leveraged financial instruments. the company is exposed to interest rate risk primarily through its customer lending and borrowing activities, which are described in notes 6 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements. the majority of the company borrowings are under fixed rate instruments. however, the company, from time to time, may use interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to help manage its exposure to interest rate movements and reduce borrowing costs. at february 3, 2007, the company was not a party to any derivative financial instruments. in connection with the repurchase of senior unsecured notes, on november 21, 2006, the company entered into reverse treasury lock agreements, which are derivative financial instruments, with an aggregate notional amount of $900 million. these agreements were settled on december 4, 2006, with a net payment to the company of approximately $4 million. the derivative financial instruments were used to mitigate the company exposure to interest rate sensitivity during the period between the date on which the 5.90% senior unsecured notes were priced and the date on which the applicable consideration payable with respect to the cash repurchase of senior unsecured notes was finalized. see notes 10 and 17 to the consolidated financial statements, which are incorporated herein by reference. based on the company lack of market risk sensitive instruments (primarily limited to variable rate debt) outstanding at february 3, 2007, the company has determined that there was no material market risk exposure to the company consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of such date. 28risk factors. in evaluating the company, the risks described below and the matters described in forward-looking statements should be considered carefully. such risks and matters could significantly and adversely affect the company business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the company faces significant competition in the retail industry. the company conducts its retail merchandising business under highly competitive conditions. although the company is one of the nation largest retailers, it has numerous and varied competitors at the national and local levels, including conventional and specialty department stores, other specialty stores, category killers, mass merchants, value retailers, discounters, and internet and mail-order retailers. competition may intensify as the company competitors enter into business combinations or alliances. competition is characterized by many factors, including assortment, advertising, price, quality, service, location, reputation and credit availability. if the company does not compete effectively with regard to these factors, its results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the company sales and operating results depend on consumer preferences and consumer spending. the fashion and retail industries are subject to sudden shifts in consumer trends and consumer spending. the company sales and operating results depend in part on its ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. the company develops new retail concepts and 6 continuously adjusts its industry position in certain major and private-label brands and product categories in an effort to satisfy customers. any sustained failure to anticipate, identify and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and consumer preferences could have a material adverse affect on the company business. consumer spending may be affected by many factors outside of the company control, including employment levels, consumer confidence, consumers disposable income, the availability and cost of credit and other general economic conditions. the company business is subject to unfavorable economic and political conditions and other developments and risks. unfavorable global, domestic or regional economic or political conditions and other developments and risks could negatively affect the company business. for example, unfavorable changes related to interest rates, rates of economic growth, fiscal and monetary policies of governments, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, oil prices, and other matters that influence the availability and cost of merchandise, consumer confidence, spending and tourism could adversely impact the company business and results of operations. in addition, unstable political conditions or civil unrest, including terrorist activities and worldwide military and domestic disturbances and conflicts, may disrupt commerce and could have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company revenues and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of its business. the company business is seasonal, with a high proportion of revenues and operating cash flows generated during the second half of the fiscal year, which includes the fall and holiday selling seasons. a disproportionate amount of revenues fall in the fourth fiscal quarter, which coincides with the holiday season. in addition, the company incurs significant additional expenses in the period leading up to the months of november and december in anticipation of higher sales volume in those periods, including for additional inventory, advertising and employees. the company business could be affected by extreme weather conditions or natural disasters. extreme weather conditions in the areas in which the company stores are located could adversely affect the company business. for example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rain storms or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for the company customers to travel to its stores and thereby reduce the company sales and profitability. the company business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. for example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of the company inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions. reduced sales from extreme or prolonged unseasonable weather conditions could adversely affect the company business. in addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes and earthquakes, or a combination of these or other factors, could severely damage or destroy one or more of the company stores or warehouses located in the affected areas, thereby disrupting the company business operations. the company pension costs could increase at a higher than anticipated rate. significant changes in interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and investment losses on plan assets could affect the funded status of the company plans and could increase future funding 7 requirements of the pension plans. a significant increase in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on the company cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. inability to access capital markets may adversely affect the company business or financial condition. changes in the credit and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate fluctuations, may increase the cost of financing or restrict the company access to this potential source of future liquidity. a decrease in the ratings that rating agencies assign to the company short and long-term debt may negatively impact the company access to the debt capital markets and increase the company cost of borrowing. in addition, the company bank credit agreements require the company to maintain specified interest coverage and leverage ratios. the company ability to comply with the ratios may be affected by events beyond its control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. if the company results of operations or operating ratios deteriorate to a point where the company is not in compliance with its debt covenants, and the company is unable to obtain a waiver, much of the company debt would be in default and could become due and payable immediately. the company assets may not be sufficient to repay in full this indebtedness, resulting in a need for an alternate source of funding. the inability to access the capital markets as needed could adversely affect the company business and financial condition. the company depends on its ability to attract and retain quality employees. the company business is dependent upon attracting and retaining a large and growing number of quality employees. many of these employees are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. the company ability to meet its labor needs while controlling the costs associated with hiring and training new employees is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. changes that adversely impact the company ability to attract and retain quality employees could adversely affect the company business. the company depends upon its relationships with designers, vendors and other sources of merchandise. the company relationships with established and emerging designers have been a significant contributor to the company past success. the company ability to find qualified vendors and access products in a timely and efficient manner is often challenging, particularly with respect to goods sourced outside the united states. political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs and other factors relating to foreign trade, each of which affects the company ability to access suitable merchandise on acceptable terms, are beyond the company control and could adversely impact the company performance. the company depends upon the success of its advertising and marketing programs. the company advertising and promotional costs, net of cooperative advertising allowances, amounted to $1,194 million for 2007. the company business depends on high customer traffic in its stores and effective marketing. the company has many initiatives in this area, and often changes its advertising and marketing programs. there can be no assurance as to the company continued ability to effectively execute its advertising and marketing programs, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. 8 the benefits expected to be realized from the division consolidations and market localization initiatives are subject to various risks, and the company failure to complete the division consolidations and market localization initiatives successfully or on a timely basis could reduce the company profitability. the company success in fully realizing the anticipated benefits from the division consolidations and market localization initiatives will depend in large part on achieving anticipated cost savings, business opportunities and growth prospects. there can be no assurance that anticipated cost savings, business opportunities and growth prospects will materialize. the company ability to benefit from the division consolidations and market localization initiatives is subject to both the risks affecting the company business generally and the inherent difficulties associated with the division consolidations and implementing the market localization initiatives. the failure of the company to realize the benefits expected to result from the division consolidations and market localization initiatives could have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. a material disruption in the company computer systems could adversely affect the company business or results of operations. the company relies extensively on its computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage its business. the company computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, acts of war or terrorism, and usage errors by the company employees. if the company computer systems are damaged or cease to function properly, the company may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and the company may suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in its operations in the interim. any material interruption in the company computer systems could adversely affect its business or results of operations. a privacy breach could adversely affect the company business. the protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to the company. the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements across business units. in addition, customers have a high expectation that the company will adequately protect their personal information. a significant breach of customer, employee, or company data could damage the company reputation and result in lost sales, fines, or lawsuits. a regional or global health pandemic could severely affect the company business. a health pandemic is a disease that spreads rapidly and widely by infection and affects many individuals in an area or population at the same time. if a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its location, duration and severity, the company business could be severely affected. customers might avoid public places in the event of a health pandemic, and local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or delay the spread of disease. a regional or global health pandemic might also adversely impact the company business by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in its supply chain and by causing staffing shortages in its stores. 9 the company is subject to numerous regulations that could adversely affect its business. the company is subject to customs, child labor, truth-in-advertising and other laws, including consumer protection regulations and zoning and occupancy ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities. although the company undertakes to monitor changes in these laws, if these laws change without the company knowledge, or are violated by importers, designers, manufacturers or distributors, the company could experience delays in shipments and receipt of goods or be subject to fines or other penalties under the controlling regulations, any of which could adversely affect the company business. litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect the company business or financial condition. the company is subject to various federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations, which may change from time to time. in addition, the company is regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of its business. litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect the company business and financial condition. factors beyond the company control could affect the company stock price. the company stock price, like that of other retail companies, is subject to significant volatility because of many factors, including factors beyond the control of the company. these factors may include: general economic and stock market conditions; risks relating to the company business and its industry, including those discussed above; strategic actions by the company or its competitors; variations in the company quarterly results of operations; future sales or purchases of the company common stock; and investor perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with the company common stock relative to other investment alternatives. in addition, the company may fail to meet the expectations of its stockholders or of analysts at some time in the future. if the analysts that regularly follow the company stock lower their rating or lower their projections for future growth and financial performance, the company stock price could decline. also, sales of a substantial number of shares of the company common stock in the public market or the appearance that these shares are available for sale could adversely affect the market price of the company common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that may adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in seeking to minimize the risks from interest rate fluctuations, the company manages exposures through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company does not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and is not a party to any leveraged financial instruments. the company is exposed to interest rate risk primarily through its borrowing activities, which are described in note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. the majority of the company borrowings are under fixed rate instruments. however, the company, from time to time, may use interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to help manage its exposure to interest rate movements and reduce borrowing costs. at february 2, 2008, the company was not a party to any derivative financial instruments. on february 26, 2007, the company board of directors approved an additional $4,000 million authorization to the company existing share repurchase program. the company used a portion of this authorization to effect the immediate repurchase of 45 million outstanding shares for an initial payment of approximately $2,000 million, subject to settlement provisions pursuant to the terms of two related accelerated share repurchase agreements, which included derivative financial instruments indexed to the company shares. upon settlement of the accelerated share repurchase agreements in may and june of 2007, the company received approximately 700,000 additional shares of its common stock, resulting in a total of approximately 45.7 million shares being repurchased. based on the company lack of market risk sensitive instruments (primarily limited to variable rate debt) outstanding at february 2, 2008, the company has determined that there was no material market risk exposure to the company consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of such date. 29risk factors. in evaluating the company, the risks described below and the matters described in forward-looking statements should be considered carefully. such risks and matters could significantly and adversely affect the company business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the company faces significant competition in the retail industry. the company conducts its retail merchandising business under highly competitive conditions. although the company is one of the nation largest retailers, it has numerous and varied competitors at the national and local levels, including conventional and specialty department stores, other specialty stores, category killers, mass merchants, value retailers, discounters, and internet and mail-order retailers. competition may intensify as the company competitors enter into business combinations or alliances. competition is characterized by many factors, including assortment, advertising, price, quality, service, location, reputation and credit availability. if the company does not compete effectively with regard to these factors, its results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the company sales and operating results depend on consumer preferences and consumer spending. the fashion and retail industries are subject to sudden shifts in consumer trends and consumer spending. the company sales and operating results depend in part on its ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. the company develops new retail concepts and continuously adjusts its industry position in certain major and private-label brands and product categories in an effort to satisfy customers. any sustained failure to anticipate, identify and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and consumer preferences could have a material adverse affect on the company business. the company sales are impacted by discretionary spending by consumers. consumer spending may be affected by many factors outside of the company control, including general economic conditions, consumer disposable income levels, consumer confidence levels, the availability, cost and level of consumer debt, the costs of basic necessities and other goods and the effects of the weather or natural disasters. the company business is subject to unfavorable economic and political conditions and other developments and risks. unfavorable global, domestic or regional economic or political conditions and other developments and risks could negatively affect the company business. for example, unfavorable changes related to interest rates, rates of economic growth, fiscal and monetary policies of governments, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, oil prices, and other matters that influence the availability and cost of merchandise, consumer confidence, spending and tourism could adversely impact the company business and results of operations. in addition, unstable political conditions or civil unrest, including terrorist activities and worldwide military and domestic disturbances and conflicts, may disrupt commerce and could have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company revenues and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of its business. the company business is seasonal, with a high proportion of revenues and operating cash flows generated during the second half of the fiscal year, which includes the fall and holiday selling seasons. a disproportionate 7 amount of revenues fall in the fourth fiscal quarter, which coincides with the holiday season. in addition, the company incurs significant additional expenses in the period leading up to the months of november and december in anticipation of higher sales volume in those periods, including for additional inventory, advertising and employees. the company business could be affected by extreme weather conditions or natural disasters. extreme weather conditions in the areas in which the company stores are located could adversely affect the company business. for example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rainstorms or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for the company customers to travel to its stores and thereby reduce the company sales and profitability. the company business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. for example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of the company inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions. reduced sales from extreme or prolonged unseasonable weather conditions could adversely affect the company business. in addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes and earthquakes, or a combination of these or other factors, could severely damage or destroy one or more of the company stores or warehouses located in the affected areas, thereby disrupting the company business operations. the company pension costs could increase at a higher than anticipated rate. significant changes in interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and investment losses on plan assets could affect the funded status of the company plans and could increase future funding requirements of the pension plans. a significant increase in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on the company cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. inability to access capital markets may adversely affect the company business or financial condition. changes in the credit and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate fluctuations, may increase the cost of financing or restrict the company access to this potential source of future liquidity. a decrease in the ratings that rating agencies assign to the company short and long-term debt may negatively impact the company access to the debt capital markets and increase the company cost of borrowing. in addition, the company bank credit agreements require the company to maintain specified interest coverage and leverage ratios. the company ability to comply with the ratios may be affected by events beyond its control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. if the company results of operations or operating ratios deteriorate to a point where the company is not in compliance with its debt covenants, and the company is unable to obtain a waiver, much of the company debt would be in default and could become due and payable immediately. the company assets may not be sufficient to repay in full this indebtedness, resulting in a need for an alternate source of funding. the company cannot assure you that it would be able to obtain such an alternate source of funding on satisfactory terms, if at all, and its inability to do so could cause the holders of its securities to experience a partial or total loss of their investments in the company. the company periodically reviews the carrying value of its goodwill for possible impairment; if future circumstances indicate that goodwill is impaired, the company could be required to write down amounts of goodwill and record impairment charges. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the company reduced the carrying value of its goodwill from $9,125 million to $3,743 million and recorded a related non-cash impairment charge of $5,382 million. the company continues to monitor relevant circumstances, including consumer spending levels, general economic conditions and the market prices for the company common stock, and the potential impact that such circumstances might 8 have on the valuation of the company goodwill. it is possible that changes in such circumstances, or in the numerous variables associated with the judgments, assumptions and estimates made by the company in assessing the appropriate valuation of its goodwill, could in the future require the company to further reduce its goodwill and record related non-cash impairment charges. if the company were required to further reduce its goodwill and record related non-cash impairment charges, the company financial position and results of operations would be adversely affected. the company depends on its ability to attract and retain quality employees. the company business is dependent upon attracting and retaining a large number of quality employees. many of these employees are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. the company ability to meet its labor needs while controlling the costs associated with hiring and training new employees is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. changes that adversely impact the company ability to attract and retain quality employees could adversely affect the company business. the company depends upon its relationships with designers, vendors and other sources of merchandise. the company relationships with established and emerging designers have been a significant contributor to the company past success. the company ability to find qualified vendors and access products in a timely and efficient manner is often challenging, particularly with respect to goods sourced outside the united states. political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs and other factors relating to foreign trade, each of which affects the company ability to access suitable merchandise on acceptable terms, are beyond the company control and could adversely impact the company performance. the company depends upon the success of its advertising and marketing programs. the company advertising and promotional costs, net of cooperative advertising allowances, amounted to $1,239 million for 2008. the company business depends on high customer traffic in its stores and effective marketing. the company has many initiatives in this area, and often changes its advertising and marketing programs. there can be no assurance as to the company continued ability to effectively execute its advertising and marketing programs, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the benefits expected to be realized from the expansion of the company market localization initiatives and the changes to its operating structure are subject to various risks, and the company failure to complete these initiatives successfully or on a timely basis could reduce the company profitability. the company success in fully realizing the anticipated benefits from the expansion of its market localization initiatives and the changes to its operating structure will depend in large part on achieving anticipated cost savings, business opportunities and growth prospects. there can be no assurance that anticipated cost savings, business opportunities and growth prospects will materialize. the company ability to benefit from expanded market localization initiatives and the changes to its operating structure is subject to both the risks affecting the company business generally and the inherent difficulties associated with implementing these initiatives. the failure of the company to realize the benefits expected to result from these initiatives could have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. parties with whom the company does business may be subject to insolvency risks or may otherwise become unable or unwilling to perform their obligations to the company. the company is a party to contracts, transactions and business relationships with various third parties, including vendors, suppliers, service providers, lenders and participants in joint ventures, strategic alliances and 9 other joint commercial relationships, pursuant to which such third parties have performance, payment and other obligations to the company. in some cases, the company depends upon such third parties to provide essential leaseholds, products, services or other benefits, including with respect to store and distribution center locations, merchandise, advertising, software development and support, logistics, other agreements for goods and services in order to operate the company business in the ordinary course, extensions of credit, credit card accounts and related receivables, and other vital matters. current economic, industry and market conditions could result in increased risks to the company associated with the potential financial distress or insolvency of such third parties. if any of these third parties were to become subject to bankruptcy, receivership or similar proceedings, the rights and benefits of the company in relation to its contracts, transactions and business relationships with such third parties could be terminated, modified in a manner adverse to the company, or otherwise impaired. the company cannot assure you that it would be able to arrange for alternate or replacement contracts, transactions or business relationships on terms as favorable as the company existing contracts, transactions or business relationships, if at all. any inability on the part of the company to do so could negatively affect the company cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. a material disruption in the company computer systems could adversely affect the company business or results of operations. the company relies extensively on its computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage its business. the company computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, acts of war or terrorism, and usage errors by the company employees. if the company computer systems are damaged or cease to function properly, the company may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and the company may suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in its operations in the interim. any material interruption in the company computer systems could adversely affect its business or results of operations. a privacy breach could result in negative publicity and adversely affect the company business. the protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to the company. the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements across business units. in addition, customers have a high expectation that the company will adequately protect their personal information. a significant breach of customer, employee, or company data could attract a substantial amount of media attention, damage the company customer relationships and reputation and result in lost sales, fines, or lawsuits. a regional or global health pandemic could severely affect the company business. a health pandemic is a disease that spreads rapidly and widely by infection and affects many individuals in an area or population at the same time. if a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its location, duration and severity, the company business could be severely affected. customers might avoid public places in the event of a health pandemic, and local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or delay the spread of disease. a regional or global health pandemic might also adversely impact the company business by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in its supply chain and by causing staffing shortages in its stores. the company is subject to numerous regulations that could adversely affect its business. the company is subject to customs, child labor, truth-in-advertising and other laws, including consumer protection regulations and zoning and occupancy ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities. although the company undertakes to monitor changes in these laws, if these laws change without the company 10 knowledge, or are violated by importers, designers, manufacturers or distributors, the company could experience delays in shipments and receipt of goods or be subject to fines or other penalties under the controlling regulations, any of which could adversely affect the company business. litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect the company business or financial condition. the company is subject to various federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations, which may change from time to time. in addition, the company is regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of its business. litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect the company business and financial condition. factors beyond the company control could affect the company stock price. the company stock price, like that of other retail companies, is subject to significant volatility because of many factors, including factors beyond the control of the company. these factors may include: general economic and stock and credit market conditions; risks relating to the company business and its industry, including those discussed above; strategic actions by the company or its competitors; variations in the company quarterly results of operations; future sales or purchases of the company common stock; and investor perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with the company common stock relative to other investment alternatives. in addition, the company may fail to meet the expectations of its stockholders or of analysts at some time in the future. if the analysts that regularly follow the company stock lower their rating or lower their projections for future growth and financial performance, the company stock price could decline. also, sales of a substantial number of shares of the company common stock in the public market or the appearance that these shares are available for sale could adversely affect the market price of the company common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that may adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in seeking to minimize the risks from interest rate fluctuations, the company manages exposures through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company does not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and is not a party to any leveraged financial instruments. the company is exposed to interest rate risk through its borrowing activities, which are described in note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. the majority of the company borrowings are under fixed rate instruments. however, the company, from time to time, may use interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to help manage its exposure to interest rate movements and reduce borrowing costs. at january 31, 2009, the company was not a party to any derivative financial instruments and based on the company lack of market risk sensitive instruments outstanding at january 31, 2009, the company has determined that there was no material market risk exposure to the company consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of such date.risk factors. in evaluating the company, the risks described below and the matters described in forward-looking statements should be considered carefully. such risks and matters could significantly and adversely affect the company business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the company faces significant competition in the retail industry. the company conducts its retail merchandising business under highly competitive conditions. although the company is one of the nation largest retailers, it has numerous and varied competitors at the national and local levels, including conventional and specialty department stores, other specialty stores, category killers, mass merchants, value retailers, discounters, and internet and mail-order retailers. competition may intensify as the company competitors enter into business combinations or alliances. competition is characterized by many factors, including assortment, advertising, price, quality, service, location, reputation and credit availability. if the company does not compete effectively with regard to these factors, its results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the company sales and operating results depend on consumer preferences and consumer spending. the fashion and retail industries are subject to sudden shifts in consumer trends and consumer spending. the company sales and operating results depend in part on its ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. the company develops new retail concepts and continuously adjusts its industry position in certain major and private-label brands and product categories in an effort to satisfy customers. any sustained failure to anticipate, identify and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and consumer preferences could have a material adverse affect on the company business. the company sales are impacted by discretionary spending by consumers. consumer spending may be affected by many factors outside of the company control, including general economic conditions, consumer disposable income levels, consumer confidence levels, the availability, cost and level of consumer debt, the costs of basic necessities and other goods and the effects of the weather or natural disasters. the company business is subject to unfavorable economic and political conditions and other developments and risks. unfavorable global, domestic or regional economic or political conditions and other developments and risks could negatively affect the company business. for example, unfavorable changes related to interest rates, rates of economic growth, fiscal and monetary policies of governments, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, oil prices, and other matters that influence the availability and cost of merchandise, consumer confidence, spending and tourism could adversely impact the company business and results of operations. in addition, unstable political conditions or civil unrest, including terrorist activities and worldwide military and domestic disturbances and conflicts, may disrupt commerce and could have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company revenues and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of its business. the company business is seasonal, with a high proportion of revenues and operating cash flows generated during the second half of the fiscal year, which includes the fall and holiday selling seasons. a disproportionate amount of revenues fall in the fourth fiscal quarter, which coincides with the holiday season. in addition, the company incurs significant additional expenses in the period leading up to the months of november and december in anticipation of higher sales volume in those periods, including for additional inventory, advertising and employees. the company business could be affected by extreme weather conditions or natural disasters. extreme weather conditions in the areas in which the company stores are located could adversely affect the company business. for example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rainstorms or other 7 extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for the company customers to travel to its stores and thereby reduce the company sales and profitability. the company business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. for example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of the company inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions. reduced sales from extreme or prolonged unseasonable weather conditions could adversely affect the company business. in addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes and earthquakes, or a combination of these or other factors, could severely damage or destroy one or more of the company stores or warehouses located in the affected areas, thereby disrupting the company business operations. the company pension costs could increase at a higher than anticipated rate. significant changes in interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and investment losses on plan assets could affect the funded status of the company plans and could increase future funding requirements of the pension plans. a significant increase in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on the company cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. increases in the cost of employee benefits could impact the company financial results and cash flow. the company expenses relating to employee health benefits are significant. unfavorable changes in the cost of such benefits could impact the company financial results and cash flow. healthcare costs have risen significantly in recent years, and recent legislative and private sector initiatives regarding healthcare reform could result in significant changes to the u.s. healthcare system. the company is not able at this time to determine the impact that healthcare reform could have on the company-sponsored medical plans. inability to access capital markets could adversely affect the company business or financial condition. changes in the credit and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate fluctuations, may increase the cost of financing or restrict the company access to this potential source of future liquidity. a decrease in the ratings that rating agencies assign to the company short and long-term debt may negatively impact the company access to the debt capital markets and increase the company cost of borrowing. in addition, the company bank credit agreements require the company to maintain specified interest coverage and leverage ratios. the company ability to comply with the ratios may be affected by events beyond its control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. if the company results of operations or operating ratios deteriorate to a point where the company is not in compliance with its debt covenants, and the company is unable to obtain a waiver, much of the company debt would be in default and could become due and payable immediately. the company assets may not be sufficient to repay in full this indebtedness, resulting in a need for an alternate source of funding. the company cannot assure you that it would be able to obtain such an alternate source of funding on satisfactory terms, if at all, and its inability to do so could cause the holders of its securities to experience a partial or total loss of their investments in the company. the company periodically reviews the carrying value of its goodwill for possible impairment; if future circumstances indicate that goodwill is impaired, the company could be required to write down amounts of goodwill and record impairment charges. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the company reduced the carrying value of its goodwill from $9,125 million to $3,743 million and recorded a related non-cash impairment charge of $5,382 million. the company continues to monitor relevant circumstances, including consumer spending levels, general economic conditions and the market prices for the company common stock, and the potential impact that such circumstances might have on the valuation of the company goodwill. it is possible that changes in such circumstances, or in the 8 numerous variables associated with the judgments, assumptions and estimates made by the company in assessing the appropriate valuation of its goodwill, could in the future require the company to further reduce its goodwill and record related non-cash impairment charges. if the company were required to further reduce its goodwill and record related non-cash impairment charges, the company financial position and results of operations would be adversely affected. the company depends on its ability to attract and retain quality employees. the company business is dependent upon attracting and retaining a large number of quality employees. many of these employees are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. the company ability to meet its labor needs while controlling the costs associated with hiring and training new employees is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. changes that adversely impact the company ability to attract and retain quality employees could adversely affect the company business. the company depends upon its relationships with designers, vendors and other sources of merchandise. the company relationships with established and emerging designers have been a significant contributor to the company past success. the company ability to find qualified vendors and access products in a timely and efficient manner is often challenging, particularly with respect to goods sourced outside the united states. political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs and other factors relating to foreign trade, each of which affects the company ability to access suitable merchandise on acceptable terms, are beyond the company control and could adversely impact the company performance. the company depends upon the success of its advertising and marketing programs. the company advertising and promotional costs, net of cooperative advertising allowances, amounted to $1,087 million for 2009. the company business depends on high customer traffic in its stores and effective marketing. the company has many initiatives in this area, and often changes its advertising and marketing programs. there can be no assurance as to the company continued ability to effectively execute its advertising and marketing programs, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the benefits expected to be realized from the expansion of the company market localization initiatives and the changes to its operating structure are subject to various risks. the company success in fully realizing the anticipated benefits from the expansion of its market localization initiatives and the changes to its operating structure will depend in large part on achieving anticipated cost savings, business opportunities and growth prospects. the company ability to benefit from expanded market localization initiatives and the changes to its operating structure is subject to both the risks affecting the company business generally and the inherent difficulties associated with implementing these initiatives. the failure of the company to fully realize the benefits expected to result from these initiatives could have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. parties with whom the company does business may be subject to insolvency risks or may otherwise become unable or unwilling to perform their obligations to the company. the company is a party to contracts, transactions and business relationships with various third parties, including vendors, suppliers, service providers, lenders and participants in joint ventures, strategic alliances and other joint commercial relationships, pursuant to which such third parties have performance, payment and other obligations to the company. in some cases, the company depends upon such third parties to provide essential leaseholds, products, services or other benefits, including with respect to store and distribution center locations, merchandise, advertising, software development and support, logistics, other agreements for goods and services 9 in order to operate the company business in the ordinary course, extensions of credit, credit card accounts and related receivables, and other vital matters. current economic, industry and market conditions could result in increased risks to the company associated with the potential financial distress or insolvency of such third parties. if any of these third parties were to become subject to bankruptcy, receivership or similar proceedings, the rights and benefits of the company in relation to its contracts, transactions and business relationships with such third parties could be terminated, modified in a manner adverse to the company, or otherwise impaired. the company cannot assure you that it would be able to arrange for alternate or replacement contracts, transactions or business relationships on terms as favorable as the company existing contracts, transactions or business relationships, if at all. any inability on the part of the company to do so could negatively affect the company cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. a material disruption in the company computer systems could adversely affect the company business or results of operations. the company relies extensively on its computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage its business. the company computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, acts of war or terrorism, and usage errors by the company employees. if the company computer systems are damaged or cease to function properly, the company may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and the company may suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in its operations in the interim. any material interruption in the company computer systems could adversely affect its business or results of operations. a privacy breach could result in negative publicity and adversely affect the company business. the protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to the company. the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements across business units. in addition, customers have a high expectation that the company will adequately protect their personal information. a significant breach of customer, employee, or company data could attract a substantial amount of media attention, damage the company customer relationships and reputation and result in lost sales, fines, or lawsuits. a regional or global health pandemic could severely affect the company business. a health pandemic is a disease that spreads rapidly and widely by infection and affects many individuals in an area or population at the same time. if a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its location, duration and severity, the company business could be severely affected. customers might avoid public places in the event of a health pandemic, and local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or delay the spread of disease. a regional or global health pandemic might also adversely impact the company business by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in its supply chain and by causing staffing shortages in its stores. the company is subject to numerous regulations that could adversely affect its business. the company is subject to customs, child labor, truth-in-advertising and other laws, including consumer protection regulations and zoning and occupancy ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities. although the company undertakes to monitor changes in these laws, if these laws change without the company knowledge, or are violated by importers, designers, manufacturers or distributors, the company could experience delays in shipments and receipt of goods or be subject to fines or other penalties under the controlling regulations, any of which could adversely affect the company business. 10 litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect the company business or financial condition. the company is subject to various federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and initiatives, including laws and regulations with respect to the credit card industry (including the credit card act of 2009), which may change from time to time. in addition, the company is regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of its business. litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect the company business and financial condition. factors beyond the company control could affect the company stock price. the company stock price, like that of other retail companies, is subject to significant volatility because of many factors, including factors beyond the control of the company. these factors may include: general economic and stock and credit market conditions; risks relating to the company business and its industry, including those discussed above; strategic actions by the company or its competitors; variations in the company quarterly results of operations; future sales or purchases of the company common stock; and investor perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with the company common stock relative to other investment alternatives. in addition, the company may fail to meet the expectations of its stockholders or of analysts at some time in the future. if the analysts that regularly follow the company stock lower their rating or lower their projections for future growth and financial performance, the company stock price could decline. also, sales of a substantial number of shares of the company common stock in the public market or the appearance that these shares are available for sale could adversely affect the market price of the company common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that may adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in seeking to minimize the risks from interest rate fluctuations, the company manages exposures through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company does not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and is not a party to any leveraged financial instruments. the company is exposed to interest rate risk through its borrowing activities, which are described in note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. the majority of the company borrowings are under fixed rate instruments. however, the company, from time to time, may use interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to help manage its exposure to interest rate movements and reduce borrowing costs. at january 31, 2009, the company was not a party to any derivative financial instruments and based on the company lack of market risk sensitive instruments outstanding at january 31, 2009, the company has determined that there was no material market risk exposure to the company consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of such date. 29risk factors. in evaluating the company, the risks described below and the matters described in forward-looking statements should be considered carefully. such risks and matters could significantly and adversely affect the company business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 6 table of contents the company faces significant competition in the retail industry. the company conducts its retail merchandising business under highly competitive conditions. although the company is one of the nation largest retailers, it has numerous and varied competitors at the national and local levels, including conventional and specialty department stores, other specialty stores, category killers, mass merchants, value retailers, discounters, and internet and mail-order retailers. competition may intensify as the company competitors enter into business combinations or alliances. competition is characterized by many factors, including assortment, advertising, price, quality, service, location, reputation and credit availability. if the company does not compete effectively with regard to these factors, its results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the company sales and operating results depend on consumer preferences and consumer spending. the fashion and retail industries are subject to sudden shifts in consumer trends and consumer spending. the company sales and operating results depend in part on its ability to predict or respond to changes in fashion trends and consumer preferences in a timely manner. the company develops new retail concepts and continuously adjusts its industry position in certain major and private-label brands and product categories in an effort to satisfy customers. any sustained failure to anticipate, identify and respond to emerging trends in lifestyle and consumer preferences could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the company sales are impacted by discretionary spending by consumers. consumer spending may be affected by many factors outside of the company control, including general economic conditions, consumer disposable income levels, consumer confidence levels, the availability, cost and level of consumer debt and customer behaviors towards incurring and paying debt, the costs of basic necessities and other goods and the effects of the weather or natural disasters. the company business is subject to unfavorable economic and political conditions and other developments and risks. unfavorable global, domestic or regional economic or political conditions and other developments and risks could negatively affect the company business. for example, unfavorable changes related to interest rates, rates of economic growth, fiscal and monetary policies of governments, inflation, deflation, consumer credit availability, consumer debt levels, consumer debt payment behaviors, tax rates and policy, unemployment trends, oil prices, and other matters that influence the availability and cost of merchandise, consumer confidence, spending and tourism could adversely impact the company business and results of operations. in addition, unstable political conditions or civil unrest, including terrorist activities and worldwide military and domestic disturbances and conflicts, may disrupt commerce and could have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the company revenues and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of its business. the company business is seasonal, with a high proportion of revenues and operating cash flows generated during the second half of the fiscal year, which includes the fall and holiday selling seasons. a disproportionate amount of revenues fall in the fourth fiscal quarter, which coincides with the holiday season. in addition, the company incurs significant additional expenses in the period leading up to the months of november and december in anticipation of higher sales volume in those periods, including for additional inventory, advertising and employees. the company business could be affected by extreme weather conditions or natural disasters. extreme weather conditions in the areas in which the company stores are located could adversely affect the company business. for example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rainstorms or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for the company customers to 7 table of contents travel to its stores and thereby reduce the company sales and profitability. the company business is also susceptible to unseasonable weather conditions. for example, extended periods of unseasonably warm temperatures during the winter season or cool weather during the summer season could render a portion of the company inventory incompatible with those unseasonable conditions. reduced sales from extreme or prolonged unseasonable weather conditions could adversely affect the company business. in addition, natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes and earthquakes, or a combination of these or other factors, could severely damage or destroy one or more of the company stores or warehouses located in the affected areas, thereby disrupting the company business operations. the company pension costs could increase at a higher than anticipated rate. significant changes in interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets and investment losses on plan assets could affect the funded status of the company plans and could increase future funding requirements of the pension plans. a significant increase in future funding requirements could have a negative impact on the company cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. increases in the cost of employee benefits could impact the company financial results and cash flow. the company expenses relating to employee health benefits are significant. unfavorable changes in the cost of such benefits could impact the company financial results and cash flow. healthcare costs have risen significantly in recent years, and recent legislative and private sector initiatives regarding healthcare reform could result in significant changes to the u.s. healthcare system. the company is not able at this time to determine the impact that healthcare reform could have on the company-sponsored medical plans. inability to access capital markets could adversely affect the company business or financial condition. changes in the credit and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate fluctuations, may increase the cost of financing or restrict the company access to this potential source of future liquidity. a decrease in the ratings that rating agencies assign to the company short and long-term debt may negatively impact the company access to the debt capital markets and increase the company cost of borrowing. in addition, the company bank credit agreements require the company to maintain specified interest coverage and leverage ratios. the company ability to comply with the ratios may be affected by events beyond its control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. if the company results of operations or operating ratios deteriorate to a point where the company is not in compliance with its debt covenants, and the company is unable to obtain a waiver, much of the company debt would be in default and could become due and payable immediately. the company assets may not be sufficient to repay in full this indebtedness, resulting in a need for an alternate source of funding. the company cannot make any assurances that it would be able to obtain such an alternate source of funding on satisfactory terms, if at all, and its inability to do so could cause the holders of its securities to experience a partial or total loss of their investments in the company. the company periodically reviews the carrying value of its goodwill for possible impairment; if future circumstances indicate that goodwill is impaired, the company could be required to write down amounts of goodwill and record impairment charges. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the company reduced the carrying value of its goodwill from $9,125 million to $3,743 million and recorded a related non-cash impairment charge of $5,382 million. the company continues to monitor relevant circumstances, including consumer spending levels, general economic conditions and the market prices for the company common stock, and the potential impact that such circumstances might have on the valuation of the company goodwill. it is possible that changes in such circumstances, or in the numerous variables associated with the judgments, assumptions and estimates made by the company in assessing 8 table of contents the appropriate valuation of its goodwill, could in the future require the company to further reduce its goodwill and record related non-cash impairment charges. if the company were required to further reduce its goodwill and record related non-cash impairment charges, the company financial position and results of operations would be adversely affected. the company depends on its ability to attract and retain quality employees. the company business is dependent upon attracting and retaining a large number of quality employees. many of these employees are in entry level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. the company ability to meet its labor needs while controlling the costs associated with hiring and training new employees is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation and changing demographics. changes that adversely impact the company ability to attract and retain quality employees could adversely affect the company business. the company depends upon designers, vendors and other sources of merchandise, goods and services. the company relationships with established and emerging designers have been a significant contributor to the company past success. the company ability to find qualified vendors and access products in a timely and efficient manner is often challenging, particularly with respect to goods sourced outside the united states. the company procurement of goods and services from outside the united states is subject to risks associated with political or financial instability, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs and other factors relating to foreign trade. in addition, the company procurement of all its goods and services is subject to the effects of price increases which the company may or may not be able to pass through to its customers. all of these factors may affect the company ability to access suitable merchandise on acceptable terms, are beyond the company control and could adversely impact the company performance. the company depends upon the success of its advertising and marketing programs. the company advertising and promotional costs, net of cooperative advertising allowances, amounted to $1,072 million for 2010. the company business depends on high customer traffic in its stores and effective marketing. the company has many initiatives in this area, and often changes its advertising and marketing programs. there can be no assurance as to the company continued ability to effectively execute its advertising and marketing programs, and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. the benefits expected to be realized from the expansion of the company market localization initiatives and the changes to its operating structure are subject to various risks. the company success in fully realizing the anticipated benefits from the expansion of its market localization initiatives and the changes to its operating structure will depend in large part on achieving anticipated cost savings, business opportunities and growth prospects. the company ability to benefit from expanded market localization initiatives and the changes to its operating structure is subject to both the risks affecting the company business generally and the inherent difficulties associated with implementing these initiatives. the failure of the company to fully realize the benefits expected to result from these initiatives could have a material adverse effect on the company business and results of operations. parties with whom the company does business may be subject to insolvency risks or may otherwise become unable or unwilling to perform their obligations to the company. the company is a party to contracts, transactions and business relationships with various third parties, including vendors, suppliers, service providers, lenders and participants in joint ventures, strategic alliances and other joint commercial relationships, pursuant to which such third parties have performance, payment and other 9 table of contents obligations to the company. in some cases, the company depends upon such third parties to provide essential leaseholds, products, services or other benefits, including with respect to store and distribution center locations, merchandise, advertising, software development and support, logistics, other agreements for goods and services in order to operate the company business in the ordinary course, extensions of credit, credit card accounts and related receivables, and other vital matters. current economic, industry and market conditions could result in increased risks to the company associated with the potential financial distress or insolvency of such third parties. if any of these third parties were to become subject to bankruptcy, receivership or similar proceedings, the rights and benefits of the company in relation to its contracts, transactions and business relationships with such third parties could be terminated, modified in a manner adverse to the company, or otherwise impaired. the company cannot make any assurances that it would be able to arrange for alternate or replacement contracts, transactions or business relationships on terms as favorable as the company existing contracts, transactions or business relationships, if at all. any inability on the part of the company to do so could negatively affect the company cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. a material disruption in the company computer systems could adversely affect the company business or results of operations. the company relies extensively on its computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage its business. the company computer systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, acts of war or terrorism, and usage errors by the company employees. if the company computer systems are damaged or cease to function properly, the company may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and the company may suffer loss of critical data and interruptions or delays in its operations in the interim. any material interruption in the company computer systems could adversely affect its business or results of operations. a privacy breach could result in negative publicity and adversely affect the company business. the protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to the company. the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements across business units. in addition, customers have a high expectation that the company will adequately protect their personal information. a significant breach of customer, employee, or company data could attract a substantial amount of media attention, damage the company customer relationships and reputation and result in lost sales, fines, or lawsuits. a regional or global health pandemic could severely affect the company business. a health pandemic is a disease that spreads rapidly and widely by infection and affects many individuals in an area or population at the same time. if a regional or global health pandemic were to occur, depending upon its location, duration and severity, the company business could be severely affected. customers might avoid public places in the event of a health pandemic, and local, regional or national governments might limit or ban public gatherings to halt or delay the spread of disease. a regional or global health pandemic might also adversely impact the company business by disrupting or delaying production and delivery of materials and products in its supply chain and by causing staffing shortages in its stores. the company is subject to numerous regulations that could adversely affect its business. the company is subject to customs, child labor, truth-in-advertising and other laws, including consumer protection regulations and zoning and occupancy ordinances that regulate retailers generally and/or govern the importation, promotion and sale of merchandise and the operation of retail stores and warehouse facilities. although the company undertakes to monitor changes in these laws, if these laws change without the company knowledge, or are violated by importers, designers, manufacturers or distributors, the company could experience 10 table of contents delays in shipments and receipt of goods or be subject to fines or other penalties under the controlling regulations, any of which could adversely affect the company business. litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect the company business or financial condition. the company is subject to various federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and initiatives, including laws and regulations with respect to the credit card industry including the credit card act of 2009 and the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 (the dodd-frank act ), which may change from time to time. in addition, the company is regularly involved in various litigation matters that arise in the ordinary course of its business. litigation or regulatory developments could adversely affect the company business and financial condition. factors beyond the company control could affect the company stock price. the company stock price, like that of other retail companies, is subject to significant volatility because of many factors, including factors beyond the control of the company. these factors may include: general economic and stock and credit market conditions; risks relating to the company business and its industry, including those discussed above; strategic actions by the company or its competitors; variations in the company quarterly results of operations; future sales or purchases of the company common stock; and investor perceptions of the investment opportunity associated with the company common stock relative to other investment alternatives. in addition, the company may fail to meet the expectations of its stockholders or of analysts at some time in the future. if the analysts that regularly follow the company stock lower their rating or lower their projections for future growth and financial performance, the company stock price could decline. also, sales of a substantial number of shares of the company common stock in the public market or the appearance that these shares are available for sale could adversely affect the market price of the company common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates that may adversely affect its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in seeking to minimize the risks from interest rate fluctuations, the company manages exposures through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. the company does not use financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes and is not a party to any leveraged financial instruments. the company is exposed to interest rate risk through its borrowing activities, which are described in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. the majority of the company borrowings are under fixed rate instruments. however, the company, from time to time, may use interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements to help manage its exposure to interest rate movements and reduce borrowing costs. at january 29, 2011, the company was not a party to any derivative financial instruments and based on the company lack of market risk sensitive instruments outstanding at january 29, 2011, the company has determined that there was no material market risk exposure to the company consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of such date. 28 table of contents