risk factors. 16 risk factors. our operating results fluctuate. our revenue, earnings, margins and other operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. if demand for our products fluctuates as a result of economic conditions or for other reasons, our revenue and profitability could be impacted. our future operating results will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, the following: changes in business and economic conditions, including downturns in the semiconductor industry and the overall economy; changes in consumer confidence caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in the credit markets, expectations for inflation, unemployment levels, and energy or other commodity prices; our ability to predict market requirements and evolving industry standards accurately and in a timely manner; our ability to predict customer demand accurately to limit obsolete inventory, which would reduce our profit margins; the ability of third-party foundries and third-party assembly, test and tape and reel suppliers and other third-party subcontractor suppliers to handle our products in a timely and cost-effective manner that meets our customers' requirements; our customers' and distributors' ability to manage the inventory that they hold and to forecast their demand; our ability to achieve cost savings and improve yields and margins on our new and existing products; our ability to respond to downward pressure on the average selling prices of our products caused by our customers or our competitors; and our ability to utilize our capacity efficiently or acquire additional capacity in response to customer demand. it is likely that our future operating results could be adversely affected by one or more of the factors set forth above or other similar factors. if our future operating results are below the expectations of stock market analysts or our investors, our stock price may decline. our industry's technology changes rapidly. we primarily design and manufacture high-performance semiconductor components for wireless applications. our markets are characterized by the frequent introduction of new products in response to evolving product and process technologies and consumer demand for greater functionality, lower costs, smaller products and better performance. as a result, we have experienced and will continue to experience some product design obsolescence. we expect our customers' demands for reductions in cost and improvements in product performance to continue, which means that we must continue to improve our product designs and develop new products that may use new technologies. it is possible that competing technologies will emerge that permit the manufacture of products that are equivalent or acceptable in terms of performance, but lower in cost, to the products we make under existing processes. if we cannot design products using competitive technologies or develop competitive products, our operating results will be adversely affected. 16 table of contents our operating results are at risk if we do not introduce new products and decrease costs. the average selling prices of our products have historically decreased over the products' lives and we expect this to continue. to offset these average selling price decreases, we must achieve yield improvements and other cost reductions for existing products, and introduce new products that can be manufactured at lower costs. in higher-tier, performance-driven markets, we offer solutions that deliver the advantages of superior performance. in lower-tier, cost-driven markets, we offer solutions that deliver market acceptable performance at lower cost. if we do not continue to identify markets that require superior performance and offer products that command a premium price for such performance, or if we do not achieve market acceptable performance in our products for cost-driven markets, our operating results could be adversely affected. we depend on a few large customers for a substantial portion of our revenue. a substantial portion of our mp revenue comes from large purchases by a small number of customers. our future operating results depend on both the success of our largest customers and on our success in diversifying our products and customer base. we typically manufacture custom products on an exclusive basis for individual customers for a negotiated period of time. increasingly, the largest cellular handset oems are releasing fewer new phone models on an annual basis, which heightens the importance of achieving design wins for these larger opportunities. while the rewards for a design win are financially greater, competition for these projects is intense. the concentration of our revenue with a relatively small number of customers makes us particularly dependent on factors affecting those customers. for example, if demand for their products decreases, they may stop purchasing our products and our operating results would suffer. most of our customers can cease incorporating our products into their products with little notice to us and with little or no penalty. the loss of a large customer and failure to add new customers to replace lost revenue would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we face risks of a loss of revenue if contracts with the u.s. government or defense and aerospace contractors are canceled or delayed. we receive a portion of our revenue from the u.s. government and from prime contractors on u.s. government sponsored programs, principally for defense and aerospace applications. these programs, such as the defense advanced research project agency ("darpa") contract to develop high power, wide band amplifiers in gan, the next program to explore advanced and promising new gan technology, and the f-35 lightning jsf aircraft programs, generally have long lead times. these programs are also subject to delays or cancellation. further, spending on defense and aerospace contracts can vary significantly depending on funding from the u.s. government. we believe our government and defense and aerospace contracts in the recent past have been negatively affected by external factors such as sequestration and political pressure to reduce federal defense spending. reductions in defense and aerospace funding or the loss of a significant defense and aerospace program or contract would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. we operate in a very competitive industry and must continue to implement innovative technologies. we compete with several companies primarily engaged in the business of designing, manufacturing and selling rf solutions, as well as suppliers of discrete integrated circuits. in addition to our direct competitors, some of our largest customers and leading platform partners also compete with us to some extent by designing and manufacturing their own products. increased competition from any source could adversely affect our operating results through lower prices for our products, reduced demand for our products and a corresponding reduction in our ability to recover development, engineering and manufacturing costs. many of our existing and potential competitors have entrenched market positions, historical affiliations with oems, considerable internal manufacturing capacity, established ip rights and substantial technological capabilities. many of our existing and potential competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing or marketing resources than we do. we cannot be sure that we will be able to compete successfully with our competitors. 17 table of contents our operating results are substantially dependent on development of new products and achieving design wins. our future success will depend on our ability to develop new product solutions for existing and new markets. we must introduce new products in a timely and cost-effective manner and secure production orders from our customers. the development of new products is a highly complex process, and we have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products at times in the past. our successful product development depends on a number of factors, including the following: the accuracy of our prediction of market requirements and evolving standards; our ability to design products that meet our customers' cost, size and performance requirements; acceptance of our new product designs; the availability of qualified product designers; our timely completion and execution of product designs and ramp of new products according to our customers' needs with acceptable manufacturing yields; acceptance of our customers' products by the market and the variability of the life cycle of such products; and our ability to successfully design, develop, manufacture and integrate new products. we may not be able to design and introduce new products in a timely or cost-efficient manner, and our new products may fail to meet the requirements of the market or our customers. in that case, we likely will not reach the expected level of production orders, which could adversely affect our operating results. even when a design win is achieved, our success is not assured. design wins may require significant expenditures by us and typically precede volume revenue by six to nine months or more. many customers seek a second source for all major components in their devices, which can significantly impact the revenue obtained from a design win. the actual value of a design win to us will ultimately depend on the commercial success of our customer's product. decisions about the scope of operations of our business could affect our results of operations and financial condition. changes in the business environment could lead to changes in our decisions about the scope of operations of our business, and these changes could result in restructuring and asset impairment charges. factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations with regard to changing the scope of our operations include: timing and execution of plans and programs that may be subject to local labor law requirements, including consultation with appropriate work councils; changes in assumptions related to severance and post-retirement costs; future divestitures; new business initiatives and changes in product roadmap, development and manufacturing; changes in employment levels and turnover rates; changes in product demand and the business environment; and changes in the fair value of certain long-lived assets and goodwill. 18 table of contents we face risks associated with the operation of our manufacturing facilities. we operate wafer fabrication facilities in florida, north carolina, oregon and texas. we currently use several international and domestic assembly suppliers, as well as internal assembly facilities in the u.s., china, costa rica, the philippines and germany to assemble and test our products. we currently have our own test and tape and reel facilities located in the u.s., china, costa rica and the philippines and we also utilize contract suppliers and partners in asia to test our products. a number of factors will affect the future success of our facilities, including the following: demand for our products; our ability to adjust production capacity in a timely fashion in response to changes in demand for our products; our ability to generate revenue in amounts that cover the significant fixed costs of operating the facilities; our ability to qualify our facilities for new products and new technologies in a timely manner; the availability of raw materials and the impact of the volatility of commodity pricing on raw materials, including gaas substrates, gold and high purity source materials such as gallium, aluminum, arsenic, indium, silicon, phosphorous and beryllium; our manufacturing cycle times; our manufacturing yields; the political and economic risks associated with the increased reliance on our manufacturing operations in china, costa rica, the philippines and germany; potential violations by our i nternational employees or third-party agents of international or u.s. laws relevant to foreign operations; our reliance on our internal facilities; our ability to hire, train and manage qualified production personnel; our compliance with applicable environmental and other laws and regulations, including social responsibilities and conflict minerals requirements; our ability to avoid prolonged periods of down-time in our facilities for any reason; and the occurrence of natural disasters anywhere in the world, which could directly or indirectly affect our facilities, subcontractor operations, and supply chain. business disruptions could harm our business, lead to a decline in revenues and increase our costs. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or man-made disasters, catastrophic events or climate change. we carry commercial property damage and business interruption insurance against various risks, with limits deemed adequate for reimbursement for damage to our fixed assets and resulting disruption of operations. however, the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could harm our business and result in significant losses, a decline in revenue and increase our costs and expenses. our operations could be harmed if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, high heat events or water shortages, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. any disruptions from these or other natural disasters could require substantial 19 table of contents expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations and have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results to the extent that losses exceed insurance recoveries. if we experience poor manufacturing yields, our operating results may suffer. our products are very complex. each product has a unique design and is fabricated using semiconductor process technologies that are highly complex. in many cases, the products are assembled in customized packages. our products, many of which consist of multiple components in a single package, feature enhanced levels of integration and complexity. our customers insist that our products be designed to meet their exact specifications for quality, performance and reliability. our manufacturing yield is a combination of yields across the entire supply chain including wafer fabrication, assembly and test yields. due to the complexity of our products, we periodically experience difficulties in achieving acceptable yields on certain new and existing products. our customers also test our components once they have been assembled into their products. the number of usable products that result from our production process can fluctuate as a result of many factors, including the following: design errors; defects in photomasks (which are used to print circuits on a wafer); minute impurities in materials used; contamination of the manufacturing environment; equipment failure or variations in the manufacturing processes; losses from broken wafers or other human error; and defects in packaging. we constantly seek to improve our manufacturing yields. typically, for a given level of sales, when our yields improve, our gross margins improve, and when our yields decrease, our unit costs are higher, our margins are lower, and our operating results are adversely affected. costs of product defects and errata (deviations from published specifications) could include the following: writing off the value of inventory; disposing of products that cannot be fixed; recalling products that have been shipped; providing product replacements or modifications; direct and indirect costs incurred by our customers in recalling their products due to defects in our products; and defending against litigation. these costs could be significant and may increase expenses and lower gross margin. our reputation with customers could be damaged as a result of product defects and errata, and product demand could be reduced. these factors could harm our business and financial results. 20 table of contents industry overcapacity and current macroeconomic conditions could cause us to underutilize our manufacturing facilities and have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. it is difficult to predict future growth or decline in the demand for our products, which makes it very difficult to estimate requirements for production capacity. in prior fiscal years, we have added significant capacity through acquisitions as well as by expanding capacity at our existing manufacturing facilities. in the past, capacity additions by us and our competitors sometimes exceeded demand requirements, leading to oversupply situations. fluctuations in the growth rate of industry capacity relative to the growth rate in demand for our products contribute to cyclicality in the semiconductor market. this may in the future put pressure on our average selling prices and have a material adverse effect on us. as many of our manufacturing costs are fixed, these costs cannot be reduced in proportion to the reduced revenues experienced during periods in which we underutilize our manufacturing facilities as a result of reduced demand. if the demand for our products is not consistent with our expectations, underutilization of our manufacturing facilities may have a material adverse effect on our gross margin and other operating results. we are subject to increased inventory risks and costs because we build our products based on forecasts provided by customers before receiving purchase orders for the products. in order to ensure availability of our products for some of our largest customers, we start manufacturing certain products in advance of receiving purchase orders based on forecasts provided by these customers. however, these forecasts do not represent binding purchase commitments and we do not recognize sales for these products until they are shipped to or consumed by the customer. as a result, we incur significant inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales. because demand for our products may not materialize, manufacturing based on forecasts subjects us to increased risks of high inventory carrying costs, increased obsolescence and increased operating costs. these inventory risks are exacerbated when our customers purchase indirectly through contract manufacturers or hold component inventory levels greater than their consumption rate because this reduces our visibility regarding the customers' accumulated levels of inventory. if product demand decreases or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to write-off inventory, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin and other operating results. we depend heavily on third parties. we purchase numerous component parts, substrates and silicon-based products from external suppliers. we also utilize third-party suppliers for numerous services, including die processing, wafer bumping, test and tape and reel. the use of external suppliers involves a number of risks, including the possibility of material disruptions in the supply of key components and the lack of control over delivery schedules, capacity constraints, manufacturing yields, quality and fabrication costs. we currently use several external manufacturing suppliers to supplement our internal manufacturing capabilities. we believe all of our key vendors and suppliers are compliant with applicable iso 9001 and/or ts-16949 standards. however, if these vendors' processes vary in reliability or quality, they could negatively affect our products and, therefore, our results of operations. we increasingly sell certain of our products through platform providers and our inability to manage these evolving relationships may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are focused on developing and maintaining relationships with platform providers to help us sell our products. these platform providers are typically large companies that provide system reference designs for oems and odms that include the platform provider's baseband and other complementary products. certain platform providers own or control ip that provides them with a dominant market position for their baseband products for certain air interface standards, which provides them with significant influence and control over sales of rf products for these standards. platform providers have historically looked to us and our competitors to provide rf products to their customers as part of the overall system design and we must compete to have our rf products included in the platform provider's system reference design. our relationships with certain platform providers are evolving, particularly as they work to develop more fully integrated solutions in silicon that include their own rf technologies and components. 21 table of contents in platform provider relationships, we generally do not control the end customer relationship. as a result, we are dependent upon the platform provider as the prime contractor to appropriately manage the end customer. the failure of the platform provider to do so can lead to situations where projects are delayed, modified or terminated for reasons outside our control. platform providers may be in a different business from ours or we may be their customer or competitor. accordingly, we must balance our interest in obtaining new business with competitive and other factors. because platform providers control the overall system reference design, if they offer competitive rf technologies or their own rf solutions as a part of their reference design and exclude our products from the design, we are at a distinct competitive disadvantage with oems and odms that are seeking a turn-key design solution, even if our products offer superior performance. our relationships with platform providers are complex and evolving and inability to manage these relationships could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to risks from international sales and operations. we operate globally with sales offices and research and development activities as well as manufacturing, assembly and testing facilities in multiple countries. as a result, we are subject to regulatory, geopolitical and other risks associated with doing business outside the u.s. global operations involve inherent risks that include currency controls and fluctuations as well as tariff, import and other related restrictions and regulations. sales to customers located outside the u.s. accounted for approximately 82% of our revenue in fiscal 2015. we expect that revenue from international sales will continue to be a significant part of our total revenue. because the majority of our foreign sales are denominated in u.s. dollars, our products become less price-competitive in countries with currencies that are low or are declining in value against the u.s. dollar. also, we cannot be sure that our international customers will continue to accept orders denominated in u.s. dollars. the majority of our assembly, test and tape and reel vendors are located in asia. we do the majority of our business with our foreign assemblers in u.s. dollars. our manufacturing costs could increase in countries with currencies that are increasing in value against the u.s. dollar. also, we cannot be sure that our international manufacturing suppliers will continue to accept orders denominated in u.s. dollars. in addition, if terrorist activity, armed conflict, civil or military unrest or political instability occur in the u.s. or other locations, such events may disrupt manufacturing, assembly, logistics, security and communications, and could also result in reduced demand for our products. pandemics and similar major health concerns could also adversely affect our business and our customer order patterns. we could also be affected if labor issues disrupt our transportation or manufacturing arrangements or those of our customers or suppliers. on a worldwide basis, we regularly review our key infrastructure, systems, services and suppliers, both internally and externally, to seek to identify significant vulnerabilities as well as areas of potential business impact if a disruptive event were to occur. once identified, we assess the risks, and as we consider it to be appropriate, we initiate actions intended to minimize the risks and their potential impact. however, there can be no assurance that we have identified all significant risks or that we can mitigate all identified risks with reasonable effort. a slowdown in the chinese economy could limit the growth in demand for devices containing our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and prospects. we believe that an increase in demand in china for handsets and other devices that include our products will be an important factor in our future growth. although the chinese economy has grown significantly in recent years, there can be no assurance that such growth will continue. any weakness in the chinese economy could result in a decrease in demand for devices containing our products, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects. economic regulation in china could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. we have a significant portion of our assembly and testing capacity in china. in recent years, the chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and wide fluctuations in the rate of inflation. in response to these factors, the chinese government has, from time to time, adopted measures to regulate growth and contain inflation, 22 table of contents including measures designed to restrict credit or to control prices. such actions in the future could increase the cost of doing business in china or decrease the demand for our products in china, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate key employees, and our failure to do so could harm our results of operations. in order to compete, we must: hire and retain qualified employees; continue to develop leaders for key business units and functions; expand our presence in international locations and adapt to cultural norms of foreign locations; and train and motivate our employee base. our future operating results and success depend on keeping key technical personnel and management and expanding our sales and marketing, research and development and administrative support. we do not have employment agreements with the vast majority of our employees. we must also continue to attract qualified personnel. the competition for qualified personnel is intense, and the number of people with experience, particularly in rf engineering, integrated circuits and filter design, and technical marketing and support, is limited. we cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain other skilled personnel in the future. our operating results may be adversely impacted by the inability of certain of our customers to access their traditional sources of credit to finance the purchase of products from us, which could lead them to reduce their level of purchases or seek credit or other accommodations from us. the inability of our customers to access capital efficiently could cause disruptions in their businesses, thereby negatively impacting ours. for example, if our customers do not have sufficient liquidity, they could reduce or limit new purchases, which could result in lower demand for our products or place us at risk for any trade credit we have extended to them if they are unable to repay us. this risk may increase if a general economic downturn materially impacts our customers and they are not able to manage their business risks adequately or do not properly disclose their financial condition to us. difficulties in integrating the business of rfmd and triquint and a failure to realize the anticipated benefits of the business combination, including the expected amount and timing of cost savings and operating synergies, could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results and our stock price. the success of the business combination will depend, in part, on our ability to fully realize the anticipated benefits from the transaction, including increased revenue, synergies, cost savings and operational efficiencies. if we are unable to fully achieve these objectives within a reasonable amount of time, the anticipated benefits may not be fully realized or at all, or may take longer to fully realize than expected and the value of our common stock may decline. the combination of rfmd's business and triquint's business has been and will continue to be a complex, costly and time-consuming process. the ongoing integration of the two companies has resulted, and may continue to result, in challenges, including: the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business concerns and performance shortfalls as a result of management's attention to the completion of the integration; managing a larger combined company; maintaining employee morale and retaining key management and other employees; the continuing integration of two unique corporate cultures; retaining existing customers and attracting new customers on profitable terms; 23 table of contents consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations; coordinating geographically separate organizations; unanticipated issues in integrating information technology, communications and other systems; managing tax costs or inefficiencies associated with integrating the operations of the combined company; and unforeseen expenses or delays associated with the business combination. many of these factors are outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenue and diversion of management's time and energy. delays or issues encountered in the ongoing integration process could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, expenses, operating results and financial condition and no assurance can be given that we will fully realize these anticipated benefits. further, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs in connection with the integration process. the substantial majority of these costs are non-recurring expenses related to the facilities and systems consolidation costs. we may also incur other unanticipated integration costs as well as costs to maintain employee morale and to retain key employees and additional costs related to formulating and revising integration plans. if we are unable to fully achieve the expected growth in earnings, or if our operational cost savings estimates are not fully realized, or if the integration costs are greater than expected, the market price of our common stock may decline. the market price also may decline if we do not fully achieve the perceived benefits of the business combination as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by financial analysts or if our financial results are not consistent with their expectations. we may engage in future acquisitions that dilute our stockholders' ownership and cause us to incur debt and assume contingent liabilities. as part of our business strategy, we expect to continue to review potential acquisitions that could complement our current product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technical capabilities, or that may otherwise offer growth or margin improvement opportunities. in the event of future acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies, we could issue equity securities that would dilute our current stockholders' ownership, incur substantial debt or other financial obligations or assume contingent liabilities. such actions could harm our results of operations or the price of our common stock. acquisitions also entail numerous other risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including: unanticipated costs, capital expenditures or working capital requirements; acquisition-related charges and amortization of acquired technology and other intangibles; diversion of management's attention from our business; injury to existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses, operations, products, technologies and personnel; and unrealized expected synergies. the price of our common stock may be volatile. the price of our common stock, which is traded on the nasdaq global select market, may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. in addition, the trading volume of our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. some of the factors that could cause fluctuations in the stock price or trading volume of our common stock include: general market and economic conditions, including market conditions in the semiconductor industry; 24 table of contents actual or expected variations in quarterly operating results; differences between actual operating results and those expected by investors and analysts; changes in recommendations by securities analysts; operations and stock performance of competitors; accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment of goodwill; significant acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors; sales of our common stock, including sales by our directors and officers or significant investors; recruitment or departure of key personnel; and loss of key customers. we cannot assure you that the price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. in addition, the stock market in general can experience considerable price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated to our performance. we rely on our intellectual property portfolio and may face claims of infringement. we rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. we cannot be certain that patents will be issued from any of our pending applications or that patents will be issued in all countries where our products can be sold. further, we cannot be certain that any claims allowed from pending applications will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection against our competitors. our competitors may also be able to design around our patents. the laws of some countries in which our products are developed, manufactured or sold may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as u.s. laws. this increases the possibility of piracy of our technology and products. although we intend to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology. additionally, our competitors may be able to independently develop non-infringing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. we may need to engage in legal actions to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights. generally, intellectual property litigation is both expensive and unpredictable. our involvement in intellectual property litigation could have a material, adverse effect on our business. these adverse effects may include injunctions, exclusion orders and royalty payments to third parties. security breaches and other similar disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. we rely on trade secrets, technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information relating to our product development and manufacturing activities. we try to protect this information by entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, strategic partners and other parties. we also restrict access to our proprietary information. despite these efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our proprietary information without our authorization. additionally, current, departing or former employees or third parties could attempt to improperly use or access our computer systems and networks to misappropriate our proprietary information or otherwise interrupt our business. like others, we are also potentially subject to significant system or network disruptions, including new system implementations, computer viruses, facility access issues and energy blackouts. 25 table of contents from time to time, we have experienced attacks on our computer systems by unauthorized outside parties; however, we do not believe that such attacks have resulted in any material damage to our customers or us. because the techniques used by computer hackers and others to access or sabotage networks constantly evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate, counter or ameliorate all of these techniques. as a result, our technologies and processes may be misappropriated and the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted. any loss of such information could harm our competitive position, result in a loss of customer confidence in the adequacy of our threat mitigation and detection processes and procedures, or cause us to incur significant costs to remedy the damages caused by the incident. we routinely implement improvements to our network security safeguards and we are devoting increasing resources to the security of our information technology systems. we cannot, however, assure that such system improvements will be sufficient to prevent or limit the damage from any future cyber attack or network disruptions. we also rely on third-party service providers to protect our proprietary information. third party service providers include foundries, assembly and test contractors, distributors, credit card processors and other vendors that have access to our sensitive data. these providers should have safeguards in place to protect our data. failure of these parties to properly safeguard our data could also result in security breaches and loss of proprietary information. the costs related to cyber or other security threats or computer systems disruptions typically would not be fully insured or indemnified by others. occurrence of any of the events described above could result in loss of competitive advantages derived from our research and development efforts or our ip. moreover, these events may result in the early obsolescence of our products; adversely affect our internal operations and reputation; or degrade our financial results and stock price. we may be subject to lawsuits and claims relating to our products. third parties could assert product liability or other claims against us, our customers or our licensors with respect to existing and future products. any litigation could result in significant expense and liability to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not the litigation is determined in our favor or covered by insurance. if wireless devices pose safety risks, we may be subject to new regulations, and demand for our products and those of our customers may decrease. concerns over the effects of radio frequency emissions continue. interest groups have requested that the federal communications commission investigate claims that wireless communications technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, hearing aids and medical devices. concerns have also been expressed over, and state laws have been enacted to mitigate, the possibility of safety risks due to a lack of attention associated with the use of wireless devices while driving. legislation that may be adopted in response to these concerns or adverse news or findings about safety risks could reduce demand for our products and those of our customers in the u.s. as well as in foreign countries. we are subject to stringent environmental regulations. we are subject to a variety of federal, state and local requirements governing the protection of the environment. these environmental regulations include those related to the use, storage, handling, discharge and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous materials used in our manufacturing processes. a change in environmental laws or our failure to comply with environmental laws could subject us to substantial liability or force us to significantly change our manufacturing operations. in addition, under some of these laws and regulations, we could be held financially responsible for remedial measures if our properties are contaminated, even if we did not cause the contamination. growing concerns about climate change, including the impact of global warming, may result in new regulations with respect to greenhouse gas emissions. our compliance with this legislation may result in additional costs. two former production facilities at scotts valley and palo alto, california from triquint's acquisition of wj communications, inc. have significant environmental liabilities for which we have entered into and funded fixed price remediation agreements and obtained cost-overrun and unknown pollution insurance coverage. these arrangements may not be sufficient to cover all liabilities related to these two sites. 26 table of contents compliance with regulations regarding the use of conflict minerals could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. regulations in the united states require that we determine whether certain materials used in our products, referred to as conflict minerals, originated in the democratic republic of the congo or adjoining countries, or were from recycled or scrap sources. the verification and reporting requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals that are used in the manufacture of our products. we have incurred costs and expect to incur additional costs associated with complying with these requirements. additionally, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of all minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. we may also face challenges with government regulators and our customers and suppliers if we are unable to sufficiently verify that the metals used in our products are conflict free. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the general corporation law of the state of delaware may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying, deterring, preventing or rendering more difficult a change in control of qorvo that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. these provisions include: granting to the board of directors sole power to set the number of directors and fill any vacancy on the board of directors, whether such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise; limitations on the ability of stockholders to remove directors; the ability of the board of directors to designate and issue one or more series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, the terms of which may be determined at the sole discretion of the board of directors; the inability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; establishment of advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to the board of directors at stockholder meetings; and the inability of stockholders to act by written consent. in addition, the general corporation law of the state of delaware contains provisions that regulate business combinations between corporations and interested stockholders who own 15% or more of the corporation's voting stock, except under certain circumstances. these provisions could also discourage potential acquisition proposals and delay or prevent a change in control. these provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit of any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context, and may also make it more difficult for a third party to replace directors on our board of directors. further, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. our operating results could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies. the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see " critical accounting policies and estimates " in part ii, item 7 of this report). such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments that could significantly affect our results of operations. 27 table of contents we may not be able to borrow funds under our credit facility or secure future financing. on april 7, 2015, we entered into a five-year senior credit facility with bank of america, n.a., as administrative agent and a lender, and a syndicate of other lenders (the credit agreement ). the credit agreement includes a $300 million revolving credit facility, which includes a $25 million sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit and a $10 million sublimit for swing line loans. we may request, at any time and from time to time, that the revolving credit facility be increased by an amount not to exceed $150 million. the revolving credit facility is available to finance working capital, capital expenditures and for other lawful corporate purposes. this facility contains various conditions, covenants and representations with which we must be in compliance in order to borrow funds. we cannot assure that we will be in compliance with these conditions, covenants and representations in the future when we may need to borrow funds under this facility. changes in our effective tax rate may impact our results of operations. we are subject to taxation in the u.s., china, singapore and numerous other foreign taxing jurisdictions. our effective tax rate is subject to fluctuations as it is impacted by a number of factors, including the following: the amount of profit determined to be earned and taxed in each jurisdiction; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our either gross deferred tax assets or gross deferred tax liabilities; adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; changes in available tax credits; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and a future decision to repatriate non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods. changes in the favorable tax status of our subsidiaries in costa rica and singapore would have an adverse impact on our operating results. our subsidiaries in costa rica and singapore have been granted tax holidays that effectively minimize our tax expense and that are expected to be effective through march 2024 and december 2021, respectively. in their efforts to deal with budget deficits, governments around the world are focusing on increasing tax revenues through increased audits and, potentially, increased tax rates for corporations. as part of this effort, governments continue to review their policies on granting tax holidays. changes in the status of either tax holiday could have a negative effect on our net income in future years. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. financial risk management we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and certain commodity prices. the overall objective of our financial risk management program is to seek a reduction in the potential negative earnings effects from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices arising from our business activities. we manage these financial exposures through operational means and by using various financial instruments. these practices may change as economic conditions change. interest rates available-for-sale securities we are exposed to interest rate risk primarily from our investments in available-for-sale securities. in accordance with an investment policy approved by the audit committee of our board of directors, our available-for-sale securities are predominantly comprised of u.s. government/agency securities, money market funds and corporate debt. we continually monitor our exposure to changes in interest rates and the credit ratings of issuers with respect to our available-for-sale securities. as a result of this monitoring and volatility of the financial markets, we adopted a more conservative investment strategy, and we are currently investing in lower risk and consequently lower interest-bearing investments. accordingly, we believe that the effects of changes in interest rates and the credit ratings of these issuers are limited and would not have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. however, it is possible that we would be at risk if interest rates or the credit ratings of these issuers were to change unfavorably. at march 28, 2015 , we held available-for-sale investments with an estimated fair value of $299.5 million . we do not purchase financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. our investments are classified as available-for-sale securities and are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income. our cash and cash equivalents and investments earned an average annual interest rate of approximately 0.1% in fiscal 2015 or less than $0.5 million in interest income. in fiscal 2014, our investments earned an average annual interest rate of approximately 0.1% or approximately $0.1 million in interest income. we do not have any investments denominated in foreign currencies and therefore are not subject to foreign currency risk on such investments. currency exchange rates as a global company, our results are affected by movements in currency exchange rates. our exposure may increase or decrease over time as our foreign business levels fluctuate in the countries where we have operations, and these changes could have a material impact on our financial results. the functional currency for most of our international operations is the u.s. dollar. we have foreign operations in costa rica, europe and asia and a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from sales to customers outside the u.s. our international revenue is primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. operating expenses and certain working capital items related to our foreign-based operations are, in some instances, denominated in the local foreign currencies and therefore are affected by changes in the u.s. dollar exchange rate in relation to foreign currencies, such as the renminbi, euro, pound sterling and costa rican colon. if the u.s. dollar weakens compared to the renminbi, euro, pound sterling, costa rican colon and other currencies, our operating expenses for foreign operations will be higher when remeasured back into u.s. dollars. we seek to manage our foreign exchange risk in part through operational means. 47 table of contents for fiscal 2015, we incurred a foreign currency loss of $0.2 million as compared to a gain of $0.2 million in fiscal 2014, which is recorded in other income (expense). the foreign currency loss for fiscal 2015 was driven by the changes in the local currency denominated balance sheet accounts, the appreciation of the u.s. dollar against the british pound and euro, and the depreciation of the u.s. dollar against the renminbi. our financial instrument holdings, including foreign receivables, cash and payables at march 28, 2015 , were analyzed to determine their sensitivity to foreign exchange rate changes. in this sensitivity analysis, we assumed that the change in one currency's rate relative to the u.s. dollar would not have an effect on other currencies' rates relative to the u.s. dollar. all other factors were held constant. if the u.s. dollar declined in value 10% in relation to the re-measured foreign currency instruments, our net income would have increased by approximately $1.7 million. if the u.s. dollar increased in value 10% in relation to the re-measured foreign currency instruments, our net income would have decreased by approximately $1.4 million. commodity prices we routinely use precious metals in the manufacture of our products. supplies for such commodities may from time to time become restricted, or general market factors and conditions may affect the pricing of such commodities. in fiscal 2015, we were able to complete process technology improvements that are replacing gold with lower-cost materials to reduce this exposure. we also have an active reclamation process to capture any unused gold. while we continue to attempt to mitigate the risk of similar increases in commodities-related costs, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully safeguard against potential short-term and long-term commodity price fluctuations. 48 table of contentsrisk factors. 16 risk factors. our operating results fluctuate. our revenue, earnings, margins and other operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. if demand for our products fluctuates as a result of economic conditions or for other reasons, our revenue and profitability could be impacted. our future operating results will depend on many factors, including the following: changes in business and macroeconomic conditions, including downturns in the semiconductor industry and the overall global economy and changes in credit markets; changes in consumer confidence caused by many factors, including changes in interest rates, credit markets, expectations for inflation, unemployment levels, and energy or other commodity prices; fluctuations in demand for our customers' products; our ability to predict market requirements and evolving industry standards accurately and in a timely manner; our ability to predict customer demand accurately to limit obsolete inventory, which would reduce our margins; the ability of third-party foundries and other third-party suppliers to manufacture, assemble and test our products in a timely and cost-effective manner; our customers' and distributors' ability to manage the inventory that they hold and to forecast accurately their demand for our products; our ability to achieve cost savings and improve yields and margins on our new and existing products; our ability to respond to downward pressure on the average selling prices of our products; and our ability to utilize our capacity efficiently or acquire additional capacity in response to customer demand. 16 table of contents it is likely that our future operating results could be adversely affected by one or more of the factors set forth above or other similar factors. if our future operating results are below the expectations of stock market analysts or our investors, our stock price may decline. our operating results are substantially dependent on development of new products and achieving design wins. the average selling prices of our products have historically decreased over the products' lives and we expect this to continue. to offset these average selling price decreases, we must achieve yield improvements and other cost reductions for existing products, and introduce new products that can be manufactured at lower costs or that command higher prices based on superior performance. our future success is dependent on our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely and cost-effective manner and secure production orders from our customers. the development of new products is a highly complex process, and we have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products at times in the past. our successful product development depends on a number of factors, including the following: our ability to predict market requirements and define and design new products that address those requirements; our ability to design products that meet our customers' cost, size and performance requirements; acceptance of our new product designs; the availability of qualified product designers; our timely completion of product designs and ramp up of new products according to our customers' needs with acceptable manufacturing yields; and market acceptance of our customers' products and the duration of the life cycle of such products. we may not be able to design and introduce new products in a timely or cost-efficient manner, and our new products may fail to meet the requirements of the market or our customers. in that case, we likely will not reach the expected level of production orders, which could adversely affect our operating results. even when a design win is achieved, our success is not assured. design wins may require significant expenditures by us and typically precede volume revenue by six to nine months or more. many customers seek a second source for all major components in their devices, which can significantly impact the revenue obtained from a design win. the actual value of a design win to us will ultimately depend on the commercial success of our customer's product. we depend on a few large customers for a substantial portion of our revenue. a substantial portion of our mp revenue comes from large purchases by a small number of customers. our future operating results depend on both the success of our largest customers and on our success in diversifying our products and customer base. we typically manufacture custom products on an exclusive basis for individual customers for a negotiated period of time. increasingly, the largest cellular handset oems are releasing fewer new phone models on an annual basis, which heightens the importance of achieving design wins for these larger opportunities. while the rewards for a design win are financially greater, competition for these projects is intense. the concentration of our revenue with a relatively small number of customers makes us particularly dependent on factors affecting those customers. for example, if demand for their products decreases, they may stop purchasing our products and our operating results would suffer. most of our customers can cease incorporating our products into their products with little notice to us and with little or no penalty. the loss of a large customer and failure to add new customers to replace lost revenue would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 table of contents we face risks of a loss of revenue if contracts with the u.s. government or defense and aerospace contractors are canceled or delayed. we receive a portion of our revenue from the u.s. government and from prime contractors on u.s. government-sponsored programs, principally for defense and aerospace applications. these programs are subject to delays or cancellation. further, spending on defense and aerospace contracts can vary significantly depending on funding from the u.s. government. we believe our government and defense and aerospace contracts in the recent past have been negatively affected by external factors such as sequestration and political pressure to reduce federal defense spending. reductions in defense and aerospace funding or the loss of a significant defense and aerospace program or contract would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. we depend heavily on third parties. we purchase numerous component parts, substrates and silicon-based products from external suppliers. we also utilize third-party suppliers for numerous services, including die processing, wafer bumping, test and tape and reel. the use of external suppliers involves a number of risks, including the possibility of material disruptions in the supply of key components and the lack of control over delivery schedules, capacity constraints, manufacturing yields, product quality and fabrication costs. we currently use several external manufacturing suppliers to supplement our internal manufacturing capabilities. we believe all of our key vendors and suppliers are compliant with applicable iso 9001 and/or ts-16949 standards. however, if these vendors' processes vary in reliability or quality, they could negatively affect our products, our reputation and our results of operations. we face risks associated with the operation of our manufacturing facilities. we operate wafer fabrication facilities in florida, north carolina, oregon and texas. we currently use several international and domestic assembly suppliers, as well as internal assembly facilities in the u.s., china, costa rica, the philippines and germany to assemble and test our products. we currently have our own test and tape and reel facilities located in the u.s., china, costa rica and the philippines, and we also utilize contract suppliers and partners in asia to test our products. a number of factors will affect the future success of our facilities, including the following: demand for our products; our ability to adjust production capacity in a timely fashion in response to changes in demand for our products; our ability to generate revenue in amounts that cover the significant fixed costs of operating the facilities; our ability to qualify our facilities for new products and new technologies in a timely manner; the availability of raw materials and the impact of the volatility of commodity pricing on raw materials, including gaas substrates, gold and high purity source materials such as gallium, aluminum, arsenic, indium, silicon, phosphorous and beryllium; our manufacturing cycle times; our manufacturing yields; the political and economic risks associated with our manufacturing operations in china, costa rica, the philippines and germany; potential violations by our i nternational employees or third-party agents of international or u.s. laws relevant to foreign operations; 18 table of contents our reliance on our internal facilities; our ability to hire, train and manage qualified production personnel; our compliance with applicable environmental and other laws and regulations, including social responsibilities and conflict minerals requirements; our ability to avoid prolonged periods of down-time in our facilities for any reason; and the occurrence of natural disasters anywhere in the world, which could directly or indirectly affect our facilities, subcontractor operations, and supply chain. business disruptions could harm our business, lead to a decline in revenues and increase our costs. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, climate change, medical epidemics or pandemics and other public health issues, military actions, acts of terrorism, political or regulatory issues and other natural or man-made disasters or catastrophic events. we carry commercial property damage and business interruption insurance against various risks, with limits we deem adequate for reimbursement for damage to our fixed assets and resulting disruption of our operations. however, the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could harm our business and result in significant losses, a decline in revenue and increase our costs and expenses. any disruptions from these events could require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations and have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results to the extent that losses exceed insurance recoveries and to the extent that such disruptions might adversely impact our relationships with our customers. if we experience poor manufacturing yields, our operating results may suffer. our products are very complex. each product has a unique design and is fabricated using semiconductor process technologies that are highly complex. in many cases, the products are assembled in customized packages. our products, many of which consist of multiple components in a single package, feature enhanced levels of integration and complexity. our customers insist that our products be designed to meet their exact specifications for quality, performance and reliability. our manufacturing yield is a combination of yields across the entire supply chain including wafer fabrication, assembly and test yields. due to the complexity of our products, we periodically experience difficulties in achieving acceptable yields and other quality issues, particularly with respect to new products. our customers test our products once they have been assembled into their products. the number of usable products that result from our production process can fluctuate as a result of many factors, including the following: design errors; defects in photomasks (which are used to print circuits on a wafer); minute impurities in materials used; contamination of the manufacturing environment; equipment failure or variations in the manufacturing processes; losses from broken wafers or other human error; and defects in packaging. we constantly seek to improve our manufacturing yields. typically, for a given level of sales, when our yields improve, our gross margins improve, and when our yields decrease, our unit costs are higher, our margins are lower, and our operating results are adversely affected. 19 table of contents costs of product defects and deviations from required specifications could include the following: writing off the value of inventory; disposing of products that cannot be fixed; recalling products that have been shipped; providing product replacements or modifications; direct and indirect costs incurred by our customers in recalling their products due to defects in our products; and defending against litigation. these costs could be significant and could reduce our gross margins. our reputation with customers also could be damaged as a result of product defects and quality issues, and product demand could be reduced, which could harm our business and financial results. we are subject to increased inventory risks and costs because we build our products based on forecasts provided by customers before receiving purchase orders for the products. in order to ensure availability of our products for some of our largest customers, we start manufacturing certain products in advance of receiving purchase orders based on forecasts provided by these customers. however, these forecasts do not represent binding purchase commitments and we do not recognize sales for these products until they are shipped to or consumed by the customer. as a result, we incur significant inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales. because demand for our products may not materialize, manufacturing based on forecasts subjects us to heightened risks of higher inventory carrying costs, increased obsolescence and higher operating costs. these inventory risks are exacerbated when our customers purchase indirectly through contract manufacturers or hold component inventory levels greater than their consumption rate because this reduces our visibility regarding the customers' accumulated levels of inventory. if product demand decreases or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to write-off inventory, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin and other operating results. we sell certain of our products based on reference designs of platform providers, and our inability to effectively manage or maintain our evolving relationships with these companies may have an adverse effect on our business. platform providers are typically large companies that provide system reference designs for oems and odms that include the platform provider's baseband and other complementary products. a platform provider may own or control ip that gives it a strong market position for their baseband products for certain air interface standards, which provides it with significant influence and control over sales of rf products for these standards. platform providers historically looked to us and our competitors to provide rf products to their customers as part of the overall system design, and we competed with other rf companies to have our products included in the platform provider's system reference design. this market dynamic has evolved in recent years as platform providers have worked to develop more fully integrated solutions that include their own rf technologies and components. platform providers may be in a different business from ours or we may be their customer or direct competitor. accordingly, we must balance our interest in obtaining new business with competitive and other factors. because platform providers control the overall system reference design, if they offer competitive rf technologies or their own rf solutions as a part of their reference design and exclude our products from the design, we are at a distinct competitive disadvantage with oems and odms that are seeking a turn-key design solution, even if our products offer superior performance. this requires us to work more closely with oems and odms to secure the design of our products in their handsets and other devices. our relationships with platform providers are complex and evolving, and the inability to effectively manage or maintain these relationships could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 table of contents we are subject to risks from international sales and operations. we operate globally with sales offices and r&amp;d activities as well as manufacturing, assembly and testing facilities in multiple countries. as a result, we are subject to regulatory, geopolitical and other risks associated with doing business outside the u.s. global operations involve inherent risks that include currency controls and fluctuations as well as tariff, import and other related restrictions and regulations. sales to customers located outside the u.s. accounted for approximately 88% of our revenue in fiscal 2016 , of which approximately 61% and 14% were attributable to sales to customers located in china and taiwan, respectively. we expect that revenue from international sales to china and other markets will continue to be a significant part of our total revenue. any weakness in the chinese economy could result in a decrease in demand for consumer products that contain our products, which could materially and adversely affect our business. because the majority of our foreign sales are denominated in u.s. dollars, our products become less price-competitive in countries with currencies that are low or are declining in value against the u.s. dollar. also, we cannot be sure that our international customers will continue to accept orders denominated in u.s. dollars. the majority of our assembly, test and tape and reel vendors are located in asia. we do the majority of our business with our foreign assemblers in u.s. dollars. our manufacturing costs could increase in countries with currencies that are increasing in value against the u.s. dollar. also, we cannot be sure that our international manufacturing suppliers will continue to accept orders denominated in u.s. dollars. in addition, if terrorist activity, armed conflict, civil or military unrest or political instability occur, such events may disrupt manufacturing, assembly, logistics, security and communications, and could also result in reduced demand for our products. pandemics and similar major health concerns could also adversely affect our business and our customer order patterns. we could also be affected if labor issues disrupt our transportation or manufacturing arrangements or those of our customers or suppliers. on a worldwide basis, we regularly review our key infrastructure, systems, services and suppliers, both internally and externally, to seek to identify significant vulnerabilities as well as areas of potential business impact if a disruptive event were to occur. once identified, we assess the risks, and as we consider it to be appropriate, we initiate actions intended to minimize the risks and their potential impact. however, there can be no assurance that we have identified all significant risks or that we can mitigate all identified risks with reasonable effort. economic regulation in china could adversely impact our business and results of operations. we have a significant portion of our assembly and testing capacity in china. in recent years, the chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and wide fluctuations in the rate of inflation. in response to these factors, the chinese government has, from time to time, adopted measures to regulate growth and contain inflation, including measures designed to restrict credit or to control prices. such actions in the future could increase the cost of doing business in china or decrease the demand for our products in china, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in may 2015, china's government implemented a policy applicable to the three chinese state-owned mobile telecommunications carriers that mandated 4g lte network improvements and that implemented subsidies for chinese consumers for both the purchase of 4g lte mobile devices and for mobile telecom data service fees. if subsidies under this policy are ended or curtailed, our business, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. we operate in a very competitive industry and must continue to implement innovative technologies. we compete with several companies primarily engaged in the business of designing, manufacturing and selling rf solutions, as well as suppliers of discrete integrated circuits and modules. in addition to our direct competitors, some of our largest customers and leading platform partners also compete with us to some extent by designing and manufacturing their own products. increased competition from any source could adversely affect our operating results through lower prices for our products, reduced demand for our products, losses of existing design slots with key customers and a corresponding reduction in our ability to recover development, engineering and manufacturing costs. 21 table of contents many of our existing and potential competitors have entrenched market positions, historical affiliations with oems, considerable internal manufacturing capacity, established ip rights and substantial technological capabilities. many of our existing and potential competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing or marketing resources than we do. we cannot be sure that we will be able to compete successfully with our competitors. our industry's technology changes rapidly. we primarily design and manufacture high-performance semiconductor components for wireless applications. our markets are characterized by the frequent introduction of new products in response to evolving product and process technologies and consumer demand for greater functionality, lower costs, smaller products and better performance. as a result, we have experienced and will continue to experience some product design obsolescence. we expect our customers' demands for reductions in cost and improvements in product performance to continue, which means that we must continue to improve our product designs and develop new products that may use new technologies. it is possible that competing technologies will emerge that permit the manufacture of products that are equivalent or acceptable in terms of performance, but lower in cost, to the products we make under existing processes. if we cannot design products using competitive technologies or develop competitive products, our operating results will be adversely affected. industry overcapacity could cause us to underutilize our manufacturing facilities and have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. it is difficult to predict future growth or decline in the demand for our products, which makes it very difficult to estimate requirements for production capacity. in prior fiscal years, we have added significant capacity through acquisitions as well as by expanding capacity at our existing manufacturing facilities, and we are in the process of expanding our baw, saw and tc-saw filter capacity at our existing facilities, including a new facility that we purchased in the first quarter of fiscal 2017. in the past, capacity additions by us and our competitors sometimes exceeded demand requirements, leading to oversupply situations. fluctuations in the growth rate of industry capacity relative to the growth rate in demand for our products lead to overcapacity and contribute to cyclicality in the semiconductor market. as many of our manufacturing costs are fixed, these costs cannot be reduced in proportion to the reduced revenues experienced during periods in which we underutilize our manufacturing facilities as a result of overcapacity. if the demand for our products is not consistent with our expectations, underutilization of our manufacturing facilities may have a material adverse effect on average selling prices, our gross margin and other operating results. we may not be able to borrow funds under our credit facility or secure future financing. we maintain a five-year senior credit facility with bank of america, n.a., as administrative agent and a lender, and a syndicate of other lenders (the credit agreement ). the credit agreement includes a $300.0 million revolving credit facility, which includes a $25.0 million sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit and a $10.0 million sublimit for swing line loans. we may request, at any time and from time to time, that the revolving credit facility be increased by an amount not to exceed $150.0 million. the revolving credit facility is available to finance working capital, capital expenditures and for other corporate purposes. this facility contains various conditions, covenants and representations with which we must be in compliance in order to borrow funds. we cannot assure that we will be in compliance with these conditions, covenants and representations in the future when we may need to borrow funds under this facility. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our debt, including our senior notes, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our debt, which may not be successful. in november 2015, we issued $450.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.75% senior notes due 2023 and $550.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7.00% senior notes due 2025 (collectively, the notes ). our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations, including the notes, and to fund working capital, planned capital expenditures and expansion efforts and any strategic alliances or acquisitions we may make in the future depends on our ability to generate cash in the future and our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. we cannot be sure that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating 22 table of contents activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our debt, including the notes. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our debt, including the notes. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. if our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds sought from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. additionally, the agreements governing our credit agreement and the indenture governing the notes limit the use of the proceeds from any disposition; as a result, we may not be allowed under these documents to use proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy our debt service obligations. further, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. the agreements and instruments governing our debt impose restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility. the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the notes contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to: incur additional debt; pay dividends, make other distributions or repurchase or redeem our capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; make loans and investments; sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of assets; incur or permit to exist certain liens; enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; and consolidate, amalgamate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. these covenants could have the effect of limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the markets in which we compete. in addition, the credit agreement requires us to comply with certain financial maintenance covenants. operating results below current levels or other adverse factors, including a significant increase in interest rates, could result in our being unable to comply with the financial covenants contained in our revolving credit facility. if we violate covenants under the credit agreement and are unable to obtain a waiver from our lenders, our debt under our revolving credit facility would be in default and could be accelerated by our lenders. because of cross-default provisions in the agreements and instruments governing our debt, a default under one agreement or instrument could result in a default under, and the acceleration of, our other debt. if our debt is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. if our debt is in default for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, complying with these covenants may also cause us to take actions that are not favorable to holders of the notes and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions. the price of our common stock may be volatile. the price of our common stock, which is traded on the nasdaq global select market, has been and may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. in addition, the trading volume of our common stock may fluctuate 23 table of contents and cause significant price variations to occur. some of the factors that could cause fluctuations in the stock price or trading volume of our common stock include: general market and economic conditions, including market conditions in the semiconductor industry; actual or expected variations in quarterly operating results; differences between actual operating results and those expected by investors and analysts; changes in recommendations by securities analysts; operations and stock performance of competitors; accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment of goodwill; significant acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors; sales of our common stock, including sales by our directors and officers or significant investors; recruitment or departure of key personnel; and loss of key customers. we cannot assure you that the price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. in addition, the stock market in general can experience considerable price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to our performance. we may engage in future acquisitions that dilute our stockholders' ownership and cause us to incur debt and assume contingent liabilities. as part of our business strategy, we expect to continue to review potential acquisitions that could complement our current product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technical capabilities, or that may otherwise offer growth or margin improvement opportunities. in the event of future acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies, we could issue equity securities that would dilute our current stockholders' ownership, incur substantial debt or other financial obligations or assume contingent liabilities. such actions could harm our results of operations or the price of our common stock. acquisitions also entail numerous other risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including: unanticipated costs, capital expenditures or working capital requirements; acquisition-related charges and amortization of acquired technology and other intangibles; diversion of management's attention from our business; injury to existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses, operations, products, technologies and personnel; and unrealized expected synergies. in order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate key employees, and our failure to do so could harm our business and our results of operations. in order to compete effectively, we must: hire and retain qualified employees; continue to develop leaders for key business units and functions; 24 table of contents expand our presence in international locations and adapt to cultural norms of foreign locations; and train and motivate our employee base. our future operating results and success depend on keeping key technical personnel and management and expanding our sales and marketing, r&amp;d and administrative support. we do not have employment agreements with the vast majority of our employees. we must also continue to attract qualified personnel. the competition for qualified personnel is intense, and the number of people with experience, particularly in rf engineering, integrated circuits and filter design, and technical marketing and support, is limited. we cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain skilled personnel in the future. we rely on our intellectual property portfolio and may not be able to successfully protect against the use of our intellectual property by third parties. we rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. we cannot be certain that patents will be issued from any of our pending applications or that patents will be issued in all countries where our products can be sold. further, we cannot be certain that any claims allowed from pending applications will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection against our competitors. our competitors may also be able to design around our patents. the laws of some countries in which our products are developed, manufactured or sold may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as u.s. laws. this increases the possibility of piracy of our technology and products. although we intend to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology. additionally, our competitors may be able to independently develop non-infringing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. we may need to engage in legal actions to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights. generally, intellectual property litigation is both expensive and unpredictable. our involvement in intellectual property litigation could have a material, adverse effect on our business. these adverse effects may include injunctions, exclusion orders and royalty payments to third parties. security breaches and other similar disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. we rely on trade secrets, technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information relating to our product development and manufacturing activities. we try to protect this information by entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, strategic partners and other parties. we also restrict access to our proprietary information. despite these efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our proprietary information without our authorization. additionally, current, departing or former employees or third parties could attempt to improperly use or access our computer systems and networks to misappropriate our proprietary information or otherwise interrupt our business. like others, we are also potentially subject to significant system or network disruptions, including new system implementations, computer viruses, facility access issues and energy blackouts. from time to time, we have experienced attacks on our computer systems by unauthorized outside parties; however, we do not believe that such attacks have resulted in any material damage to our customers or us. because the techniques used by computer hackers and others to access or sabotage networks constantly evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate, counter or ameliorate all of these techniques. as a result, our technologies, processes and customer information may be misappropriated and the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted. any loss of such information could harm our competitive position, result in a loss of customer confidence in the adequacy of our threat mitigation and detection processes and procedures, or cause us to incur significant costs to remedy the damages caused by the incident. we routinely implement improvements to our network security safeguards and we are devoting increasing resources to the 25 table of contents security of our information technology systems. we cannot, however, assure that such system improvements will be sufficient to prevent or limit the damage from any future cyber attack or network disruptions. we also rely on third-party service providers to protect our proprietary information. third party service providers include foundries, assembly and test contractors, distributors, credit card processors and other vendors that have access to our sensitive data. these providers should have safeguards in place to protect our data. failure of these parties to properly safeguard our data could also result in security breaches and loss of proprietary information. the costs related to cyber or other security threats or computer systems disruptions typically would not be fully insured or indemnified by others. occurrence of any of the events described above could result in loss of competitive advantages derived from our r&amp;d efforts or our ip. moreover, these events may result in the early obsolescence of our products; adversely affect our internal operations and reputation; or degrade our financial results and stock price. if wireless devices pose safety risks, we may be subject to product liability litigation and new regulations, and demand for our products and those of our customers may decrease. interest groups have requested that the federal communications commission investigate claims that wireless communications technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, hearing aids and medical devices. concerns have also been expressed over, and state laws have been enacted to mitigate, the possibility of safety risks due to a lack of attention associated with the use of wireless devices while driving. legislation that may be adopted in response to these concerns, product liability litigation or other lawsuits or adverse news or findings about health and safety risks could reduce demand for our products and those of our customers. any product liability litigation could result in significant expense and liability to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not the litigation is determined in our favor or covered by insurance. such findings or litigation may also adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. we are subject to stringent environmental regulations. we are subject to a variety of federal, state and local requirements governing the protection of the environment. these environmental regulations include those related to the use, storage, handling, discharge and disposal of toxic or otherwise hazardous materials used in our manufacturing processes. a change in environmental laws or our failure to comply with environmental laws could subject us to substantial liability or force us to significantly change our manufacturing operations. in addition, under some of these laws and regulations, we could be held financially responsible for remedial measures if our properties are contaminated, even if we did not cause the contamination. growing concerns about climate change, including the impact of global warming, may result in new regulations with respect to greenhouse gas emissions. our compliance with this legislation may result in additional costs. two former production facilities at scotts valley and palo alto, california from triquint's acquisition of wj communications, inc. have significant environmental liabilities for which we have entered into and funded fixed price remediation agreements and obtained cost-overrun and unknown pollution insurance coverage. these arrangements may not be sufficient to cover all liabilities related to these two sites. compliance with regulations regarding the use of conflict minerals could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. regulations in the united states require that we determine whether certain materials used in our products, referred to as conflict minerals, originated in the democratic republic of the congo or adjoining countries, or were from recycled or scrap sources. the verification and reporting requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals that are used in the manufacture of our products. we have incurred costs and expect to incur additional costs associated with complying with these requirements. additionally, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of all minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. we may also face challenges with government regulators and our customers and suppliers if we are unable to sufficiently verify that the metals used in our products are conflict free. 26 table of contents our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the general corporation law of the state of delaware may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying, deterring, preventing or rendering more difficult a change in control of qorvo that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. these provisions include: granting to the board of directors sole power to set the number of directors and fill any vacancy on the board of directors, whether such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise; the ability of the board of directors to designate and issue one or more series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, the terms of which may be determined at the sole discretion of the board of directors; the inability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; establishment of advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to the board of directors at stockholder meetings; and the inability of stockholders to act by written consent. in addition, the general corporation law of the state of delaware contains provisions that regulate business combinations between corporations and interested stockholders who own 15% or more of the corporation's voting stock, except under certain circumstances. these provisions could also discourage potential acquisition proposals and delay or prevent a change in control. these provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit of any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context, and may also make it more difficult for a third party to replace directors on our board of directors. further, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. our operating results could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies. the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see " critical accounting policies and estimates " in part ii, item 7 of this report). such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments that could significantly affect our results of operations. decisions we make about the scope of our future operations could affect our future financial results. changes in the business environment could lead us to decide to change the scope of operations of our business, which could result in restructuring and asset impairment charges. the amount and timing of such charges can be difficult to predict. factors that contribute to the amount and timing of such charges include: the timing and execution of plans and programs that are subject to local labor law requirements, including consultation with appropriate work councils; changes in assumptions related to severance and post-retirement costs; the timing of future divestitures and the amount and type of proceeds realized from such divestitures; and changes in the fair value of certain long-lived assets and goodwill. 27 table of contents changes in our effective tax rate may impact our results of operations. we are subject to taxation in the u.s., china, singapore and numerous other foreign taxing jurisdictions. our effective tax rate is subject to fluctuations as it is impacted by a number of factors, including the following: the amount of profit determined to be earned and taxed in each jurisdiction; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of either our gross deferred tax assets or gross deferred tax liabilities; adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; changes in available tax credits; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; impact of the organisation for economic co-operation and development base erosion and profit shifting initiative on tax policy and enacted laws; and a future decision to repatriate non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods. changes in the favorable tax status of our subsidiaries in costa rica and singapore would have an adverse impact on our operating results. our subsidiaries in costa rica and singapore have been granted tax holidays that effectively minimize our tax expense and that are expected to be effective through march 2024 and december 2021, respectively. in their efforts to deal with budget deficits, governments around the world are focusing on increasing tax revenues through increased audits and, potentially, increased tax rates for corporations. as part of this effort, governments continue to review their policies on granting tax holidays. changes in the status of either tax holiday could have a negative effect on our net income in future years. our management has identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to accounting for income taxes. if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and the trading prices of our securities. as disclosed in item 9a-controls and procedures below, our management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to the effective monitoring and oversight of controls over the completeness, existence, accuracy, valuation and presentation of the income tax provision, including deferred tax assets, valuation allowances, and tax uncertainties. a material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. we are actively remediating the identified material weakness. if our remediation efforts are insufficient to address the identified material weakness or if additional material weaknesses in our internal controls are discovered in the future, they may adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information timely and accurately and, as a result, our financial statements may contain material misstatements or omissions, which could result in regulatory scrutiny and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or the trading prices of our securities. 28 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. financial risk management we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and certain commodity prices. the overall objective of our financial risk management program is to seek a reduction in the potential negative earnings effects from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices arising from our business activities. we manage these financial exposures through operational means and by using various financial instruments. these practices may change as economic conditions change. interest rates available-for-sale securities we are exposed to interest rate risk primarily from our investments in available-for-sale securities. in accordance with an investment policy approved by the audit committee of our board of directors, our available-for-sale securities are predominantly comprised of u.s. government/agency securities, money market funds and corporate debt. we continually monitor our exposure to changes in interest rates and the credit ratings of issuers with respect to our available-for-sale securities. as a result of this monitoring and volatility of the financial markets, we adopted a more conservative investment strategy, and we are currently investing in lower risk and consequently lower interest-bearing investments. accordingly, we believe that the effects of changes in interest rates and the credit ratings of these issuers are limited and would not have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. however, it is possible that we would be at risk if interest rates or the credit ratings of these issuers were to change unfavorably. at april 2, 2016 , we held available-for-sale investments with an estimated fair value of $344.0 million . we do not purchase financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. our investments are classified as available-for-sale securities and are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income. our cash and cash equivalents and investments earned an average annual interest rate of less than 1% in fiscal 2016 or approximately $2.1 million in interest income. in fiscal 2015, our investments earned an average annual interest rate of approximately 0.1% or approximately $0.5 million in interest income. we do not have any investments denominated in foreign currencies and therefore are not subject to foreign currency risk on such investments. credit agreement the credit agreement includes a $300.0 million revolving credit facility, which includes a $25.0 million sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit and a $10.0 million sublimit for swing line loans. we may request, at any time and from time to time, that the revolving credit facility be increased by an amount not to exceed $150.0 million . the interest rates on this facility are variable; however, since we have no outstanding balances under the credit agreement, there is no interest rate risk related to this facility as of april 2, 2016 . 52 table of contents currency exchange rates as a global company, our results are affected by movements in currency exchange rates. our exposure may increase or decrease over time as our foreign business levels fluctuate in the countries where we have operations, and these changes could have a material impact on our financial results. the functional currency for most of our international operations is the u.s. dollar. we have foreign operations in costa rica, europe and asia, and a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from sales to customers outside the u.s. our international revenue is primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. operating expenses and certain working capital items related to our foreign-based operations are, in some instances, denominated in the local foreign currencies and therefore are affected by changes in the u.s. dollar exchange rate in relation to foreign currencies, such as the renminbi, euro, pound sterling and costa rican colon. if the u.s. dollar weakens compared to the renminbi, euro, pound sterling, costa rican colon and other currencies, our operating expenses for foreign operations will be higher when remeasured back into u.s. dollars. we seek to manage our foreign exchange risk in part through operational means. for fiscal 2016 , we incurred a foreign currency loss of $0.7 million as compared to a loss of $0.2 million in fiscal 2015 , which is recorded in other income (expense). our financial instrument holdings, including foreign receivables, cash and payables at april 2, 2016 , were analyzed to determine their sensitivity to foreign exchange rate changes. in this sensitivity analysis, we assumed that the change in one currency's rate relative to the u.s. dollar would not have an effect on other currencies' rates relative to the u.s. dollar. all other factors were held constant. if the u.s. dollar declined in value 10% in relation to the re-measured foreign currency instruments, our net income would have decreased by approximately $1.6 million. if the u.s. dollar increased in value 10% in relation to the re-measured foreign currency instruments, our net income would have increased by approximately $1.3 million. commodity prices we routinely use precious metals in the manufacture of our products. supplies for such commodities may from time to time become restricted, or general market factors and conditions may affect the pricing of such commodities. in fiscal 2015, we were able to complete process technology improvements that are replacing gold with lower-cost materials to reduce this exposure. we also have an active reclamation process to capture any unused gold. while we continue to attempt to mitigate the risk of similar increases in commodities-related costs, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully safeguard against potential short-term and long-term commodity price fluctuations. 53 table of contentsrisk factors. 14 risk factors. our operating results fluctuate. our revenue, earnings, margins and other operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. if demand for our products fluctuates as a result of economic conditions or for other reasons, our revenue and profitability could be impacted. our future operating results will depend on many factors, including the following: business, political and macroeconomic changes, including downturns in the semiconductor industry and the overall global economy; changes in consumer confidence caused by many factors, including changes in interest rates, credit markets, expectations for inflation, unemployment levels, and energy or other commodity prices; fluctuations in demand for our customers' products; our ability to predict customer demand accurately to limit obsolete inventory, which would reduce our margins; the ability of third-party foundries and other third-party suppliers to manufacture, assemble and test our products in a timely and cost-effective manner; our customers' and distributors' ability to manage the inventory that they hold and to forecast accurately their demand for our products; our ability to achieve cost savings and improve yields and margins on our new and existing products; and our ability to utilize our capacity efficiently or acquire additional capacity in response to customer demand. it is likely that our future operating results could be adversely affected by one or more of the factors set forth above or other similar factors. if our future operating results are below the expectations of stock market analysts or our investors, our stock price may decline. 14 table of contents our operating results are substantially dependent on development of new products and achieving design wins as our industry's technology changes rapidly. our markets are characterized by the frequent introduction of new products in response to evolving product and process technologies and consumer demand for greater functionality, lower costs, smaller products and better performance. historically, the average selling prices of many of our products have decreased over the products' lives and we have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, some product design obsolescence. to offset these average selling price decreases and to meet our customers' demands for reductions in cost and improvements in technology, we must achieve yield improvements and other cost reductions for existing products, and introduce new products that are competitive and can be manufactured at lower costs or that command higher prices based on superior performance. our future success is dependent on our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely and cost-effective manner and secure production orders from our customers. the development of new products is a highly complex process, and we have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products at times in the past. our successful product development depends on a number of factors, including the following: our ability to predict market requirements and define and design new products that address those requirements; our ability to design products that meet our customers' cost, size and performance requirements; acceptance of our new product designs; the availability of qualified product design engineers; our timely completion of product designs and ramp up of new products according to our customers' needs with acceptable manufacturing yields; and market acceptance of our customers' products and the duration of the life cycle of such products. we may not be able to design and introduce new products in a timely or cost-efficient manner, and our new products may fail to meet market or customer requirements. most major product design opportunities that we pursue involve multiple competitors, and we could lose a new product design opportunity to a competitor that offers a lower cost or equal or superior performing products. if we are unsuccessful in achieving design wins against our competitors, our revenue and operating results will be adversely affected. even when a design win is achieved, our success is not assured. design wins may require significant expenditures by us and typically precede volume revenue by six to nine months or more. many customers seek a second source for all major components in their devices, which can significantly reduce the revenue obtained from a design win. the actual value of a design win to us will ultimately depend on the commercial success of our customers' products. we depend on a few large customers for a substantial portion of our revenue. a substantial portion of our mp revenue comes from large purchases by a small number of customers. our future operating results depend on both the success of our largest customers and on our success in diversifying our products and customer base. we typically manufacture custom products on an exclusive basis for individual customers for a negotiated period of time. increasingly, the largest cellular handset oems are releasing fewer new phone models on an annual basis, which heightens the importance of achieving design wins for these larger opportunities. while the rewards for a design win are financially greater, competition for these projects is intense. the concentration of our revenue with a relatively small number of customers makes us particularly dependent on factors affecting those customers. for example, if demand for their products decreases, they may reduce their purchases of, or stop purchasing, our products and our operating results would suffer. most of our customers can cease incorporating our products into their products with little notice to us and with little or no penalty. the loss of a large customer and failure to add new customers to replace lost revenue would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 table of contents we have entered into a supply arrangement with apple to supply them with a module that combines multiple high-order multiplexers with pas, switches, and lnas for their 2018 smartphones, which requires a substantial r&amp;d investment by us and obligates us to supply product to them on specified terms and build and maintain production capacity to meet these requirements. meeting the technical and other requirements for this project is not assured. we have a master supply agreement with apple under which we provide them with various rf components and modules for their smartphones and other mobile devices. we periodically enter into statements of work under this agreement under which we agree with apple on the terms of development and supply of specific rf components and modules. we have entered into a statement of work with apple under which we have agreed to supply a module that combines multiple high-order multiplexers with pas, switches, and lnas for certain smartphones scheduled to launch in 2018, and to secure, maintain and allocate to them sufficient manufacturing capacity to make this product. we have also agreed to pricing based on the indicated volume of product that would be purchased by apple under the arrangement. in consideration for this agreement, apple intends, but is not required, to source a specified range of its needs for this module from us, provided that we are able to meet certain development, supply, quality and other commitments. this module is highly integrated and technically complex, the development process is ongoing and meeting apple's engineering specifications is not assured. we have already invested and expect to continue to invest substantial resources and capital to this development project and to build the required baw filter manufacturing capacity. if we fail to meet apple's technical performance or other requirements, our product will not be selected, and we will not generate any revenue from this project. even if our development efforts are successful, we may not generate the amount of revenue or the level of profitability we are forecasting from this arrangement. like our work on other major custom-design programs, our ability to realize a profit under this arrangement will be subject to the level of end customer demand for the smartphones into which our product is installed, and to the costs of maintaining facilities and manufacturing capacity and obtaining the materials and services required for us to perform under the arrangement. we face risks of a loss of revenue if contracts with the u.s. government or defense and aerospace contractors are canceled or delayed or if defense spending is reduced. we receive a portion of our revenue from the u.s. government and from prime contractors on u.s. government-sponsored programs, principally for defense and aerospace applications. these programs are subject to delays or cancellation. further, spending on defense and aerospace contracts can vary significantly depending on funding from the u.s. government. we believe our government and defense and aerospace contracts have been negatively affected in the past by external factors such as sequestration and political pressure to reduce federal defense spending. reductions in defense and aerospace funding or the loss of a significant defense and aerospace program or contract would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. we depend heavily on third parties. we purchase numerous component parts, substrates and silicon-based products from external suppliers. we also utilize third-party suppliers for numerous services, including die processing, wafer bumping, test and tape and reel. the use of external suppliers involves a number of risks, including the possibility of material disruptions in the supply of key components and the lack of control over delivery schedules, capacity constraints, manufacturing yields, product quality and fabrication costs. although our key suppliers commit to us to be compliant with applicable iso 9001 and/or ts-16949 quality standards, we have experienced quality and reliability issues in the past with certain suppliers. quality or reliability issues in our supply chain could negatively affect our products, our reputation and our results of operations. we face risks related to sales through distributors. we sell a significant portion of our products through third party distributors. we depend on these distributors to help us create end customer demand, provide technical support and other value-added services to customers, fill customer orders, and stock our products. we may rely on one or more key distributors for a product, and a material change in our relationship with one or more of these distributors or their failure to perform as expected could reduce our revenue. our ability to add or replace distributors for some of our products may be limited because our end customers may be hesitant to accept the addition or replacement of a distributor due to advantages in the incumbent distributors' technical support and favorable business terms related to payments, discounts and stocking of 16 table of contents acceptable inventory levels. using third parties for distribution exposes us to many risks, including competitive pressure, concentration, credit risk, and compliance risks. other third parties may use one of our distributors to sell products that compete with our products, and we may need to provide financial and other incentives to the distributors to focus them on the sale of our products. our distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivable and financial results. violations of the foreign corrupt practices act or similar laws by our distributors or other third-party intermediaries could have a material impact on our business. failure to manage risks related to our use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position. we face risks associated with the operation of our manufacturing facilities. we operate wafer fabrication facilities in texas, florida, north carolina and oregon. we currently use several international and domestic assembly suppliers, as well as internal assembly facilities in the u.s., china, costa rica, the philippines and germany to assemble and test our products. we currently have our own test and tape and reel facilities located in the u.s., china, costa rica and the philippines, and we also utilize contract suppliers and partners in asia to test our products. a number of factors will affect the future success of our facilities, including the following: our ability to adjust production capacity in a timely fashion in response to changes in demand for our products; the significant fixed costs of operating the facilities; factory utilization rates; our ability to qualify our facilities for new products and new technologies in a timely manner; the availability of raw materials and the impact of the volatility of commodity pricing on raw materials, including substrates, gold, platinum and high purity source materials such as gallium, aluminum, arsenic, indium, silicon, phosphorous and palladium; our manufacturing cycle times; our manufacturing yields; the political, regulatory and economic risks associated with our international manufacturing operations; potential violations by our i nternational employees or third-party agents of international or u.s. laws relevant to foreign operations; our ability to hire, train and manage qualified production personnel; our compliance with applicable environmental and other laws and regulations; and our ability to avoid prolonged periods of down-time in our facilities for any reason. business disruptions could harm our business, lead to a decline in revenues and increase our costs. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by natural disasters, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, extreme weather conditions, public health issues, military actions, acts of terrorism, political or regulatory issues and other man-made disasters or catastrophic events. we carry commercial property damage and business interruption insurance against various risks, with limits we deem adequate for reimbursement for damage to our fixed assets and resulting disruption of our operations. however, the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could harm our business and result in significant losses, a decline in revenue and an increase in our costs and expenses. any disruptions from these events could require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations and could also have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results to the 17 table of contents extent that losses exceed insurance recoveries and to the extent that such disruptions adversely impact our relationships with our customers. if we experience poor manufacturing yields, our operating results may suffer. our products have unique designs and are fabricated using multiple semiconductor process technologies that are highly complex. in many cases, our products are assembled in customized packages. many of our products consist of multiple components in a single module, and feature enhanced levels of integration and complexity. our customers insist that our products be designed to meet their exact specifications for quality, performance and reliability. our manufacturing yield is a combination of yields across the entire supply chain, including wafer fabrication, assembly and test yields. defects in a single component in an assembled module product can impact the yield for the entire module, which means the adverse economic impacts of an individual defect can be multiplied many times over if we fail to discover the defect before the module is assembled. due to the complexity of our products, we periodically experience difficulties in achieving acceptable yields and other quality issues, particularly with respect to new products. our customers test our products once they have been assembled into their products. the number of usable products that result from our production process can fluctuate as a result of many factors, including: design errors; defects in photomasks (which are used to print circuits on a wafer); minute impurities in materials used; contamination of the manufacturing environment; equipment failure or variations in the manufacturing processes; losses from broken wafers or other human error; and defects in packaging. we constantly seek to improve our manufacturing yields. typically, for a given level of sales, when our yields improve, our gross margins improve, and when our yields decrease, our unit costs are higher, our margins are lower, and our operating results are adversely affected. costs of product defects and deviations from required specifications could include the following: writing off the value of inventory; disposing of products that cannot be fixed; recalling products that have been shipped; providing product replacements or modifications; direct and indirect costs incurred by our customers in recalling their products due to defects in our products; and defending against litigation. these costs could be significant and could reduce our gross margins. our reputation with customers also could be damaged as a result of product defects and quality issues, and product demand could be reduced, which could harm our business and financial results. 18 table of contents we are subject to increased inventory risks and costs because we build our products based on forecasts provided by customers before receiving purchase orders for the products. in order to ensure availability of our products for some of our largest customers, we start manufacturing certain products in advance of receiving purchase orders based on forecasts provided by these customers. however, these forecasts do not represent binding purchase commitments and we do not recognize sales for these products until they are shipped to or consumed by the customer. as a result, we incur significant inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales. because demand for our products may not materialize, manufacturing based on forecasts subjects us to heightened risks of higher inventory carrying costs, increased obsolescence and higher operating costs. these inventory risks are exacerbated when our customers purchase indirectly through contract manufacturers or hold component inventory levels greater than their consumption rate because this reduces our visibility regarding the customers' accumulated levels of inventory. if product demand decreases or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to write-off inventory, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin and other operating results. we sell certain of our products based on reference designs of platform providers, and our inability to effectively manage or maintain our evolving relationships with these companies may have an adverse effect on our business. platform providers are typically large companies that provide system reference designs for oems and odms that include the platform provider's baseband and other complementary products. a platform provider may own or control ip that gives it a strong market position for its baseband products for certain air interface standards, which provides it with significant influence and control over sales of rf products for these standards. platform providers historically looked to us and our competitors to provide rf products to their customers as part of the overall system design, and we competed with other rf companies to have our products included in the platform provider's system reference design. this market dynamic has evolved in recent years as platform providers have worked to develop more fully integrated solutions that include their own rf technologies and components. platform providers may be in a different business from ours or we may be their customer or direct competitor. accordingly, we must balance our interest in obtaining new business with competitive and other factors. because platform providers control the overall system reference design, if they offer competitive rf technologies or their own rf solutions as a part of their reference design and exclude our products from the design, we are at a distinct competitive disadvantage with oems and odms that are seeking a turn-key design solution, even if our products offer superior performance. this requires us to work more closely with oems and odms to secure the design of our products in their handsets and other devices. our relationships with platform providers are complex and evolving, and the inability to effectively manage or maintain these relationships could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to risks from international sales and operations. we operate globally with sales offices and r&amp;d activities as well as manufacturing, assembly and testing facilities in multiple countries. as a result, we are subject to regulatory, geopolitical and other risks associated with doing business outside the u.s., including: global and local economic and political conditions; currency controls and fluctuations; tariff, trade (including import/export regulations) and other related restrictions and regulations; labor market conditions and workers' rights affecting our transportation or manufacturing arrangements or those of our customers or suppliers; disruptions of capital and trading markets; 19 table of contents occurrences of geopolitical crises such as terrorist activity, armed conflict, civil or military unrest or political instability, which may disrupt manufacturing, assembly, logistics, security and communications and result in reduced demand for our products; pandemics and similar major health concerns, which could adversely affect our business and our customer order patterns; and restrictions on, and tax consequences associated with, repatriation of foreign earnings. sales to customers located outside the u.s. accounted for approximately 85% of our revenue in fiscal 2017 , of which approximately 62% and 13% were attributable to sales to customers located in china and taiwan, respectively. we expect that revenue from international sales to china and other markets will continue to be a significant part of our total revenue. any weakness in the chinese economy could result in a decrease in demand for consumer products that contain our products, which could materially and adversely affect our business. the majority of our foreign sales are denominated in u.s. dollars, which causes our products to become less price-competitive in countries with currencies that are low or are declining in value against the u.s. dollar. in addition, the majority of our assembly, test and tape and reel vendors are located in asia, and we do the majority of our business with our foreign assemblers in u.s. dollars. we cannot be sure that our international customers and manufacturing suppliers will continue to accept orders denominated in u.s. dollars. economic regulation in china could adversely impact our business and results of operations. we have a significant portion of our assembly and testing capacity in china. in recent years, the chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and wide fluctuations in the rate of inflation. in response to these factors, the chinese government has, from time to time, adopted measures to regulate growth and contain inflation, including measures designed to restrict credit or to control prices. such actions in the future, as well as other changes in chinese laws and regulations, could increase the cost of doing business in china or decrease the demand for our products in china, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we operate in a very competitive industry and must continue to implement innovative technologies. we compete with several companies primarily engaged in the business of designing, manufacturing and selling rf solutions, as well as suppliers of discrete integrated circuits and modules. in addition to our direct competitors, some of our largest customers and leading platform partners also compete with us to some extent by designing and manufacturing their own products. increased competition from any source could adversely affect our operating results through lower prices for our products, reduced demand for our products, losses of existing design slots with key customers and a corresponding reduction in our ability to recover development, engineering and manufacturing costs. many of our existing and potential competitors have entrenched market positions, historical affiliations with oems, considerable internal manufacturing capacity, established ip rights and substantial technological capabilities. the semiconductor industry has experienced increased industry consolidation over the last several years, a trend we expect to continue. many of our existing and potential competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing or marketing resources than we do. we cannot be sure that we will be able to compete successfully with our competitors. 20 table of contents industry overcapacity could cause us to underutilize our manufacturing facilities and have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. it is difficult to predict future demand for our products, which makes it difficult to estimate future requirements for production capacity. capacity expansion projects have long lead times and require capital commitments based on forecasted product trends and demand well in advance of production orders from customers. in recent years, we have made significant capital investments to expand our baw, saw and tc-saw filter capacity to address forecasted future demand patterns. in the past, capacity additions by us and our competitors sometimes exceeded demand requirements, leading to oversupply situations. fluctuations in the growth rate of industry capacity relative to the growth rate in demand for our products lead to overcapacity and contribute to cyclicality in the semiconductor market. as many of our manufacturing costs are fixed, these costs cannot be reduced in proportion to the reduced revenues experienced during periods in which we underutilize our manufacturing facilities as a result of overcapacity. if the demand for our products is not consistent with our expectations, underutilization of our manufacturing facilities may have a material adverse effect on average selling prices, our gross margin and other operating results. we may not be able to borrow funds under our credit facility or secure future financing. we maintain a five-year senior credit facility with bank of america, n.a., as administrative agent and a lender, and a syndicate of other lenders (the credit agreement ). the credit agreement includes a $300.0 million revolving credit facility, which includes a $25.0 million sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit and a $10.0 million sublimit for swing line loans. we may request, at any time and from time to time, that the revolving credit facility be increased by an amount not to exceed $150.0 million . the revolving credit facility is available to finance working capital, capital expenditures and for other corporate purposes. this facility contains various conditions, covenants and representations with which we must be in compliance in order to borrow funds. we cannot assure that we will be in compliance with these conditions, covenants and representations in the future when we may need to borrow funds under this facility. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our debt, including our senior notes, or to fund capital expenditures and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our debt obligations and financing requirements, which may not be successful or on terms favorable to us. in november 2015, we issued $450.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.75% senior notes due 2023 (the "2023 notes") and $550.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7.00% senior notes due 2025 (the "2025 notes" and together with the 2023 notes, the notes ). in september 2016, we completed an exchange offer, in which all of the 2023 notes and substantially all of the 2025 notes were exchanged for new notes that have been registered under the securities act of 1933, as amended (the "securities act"). our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations, including the notes, and to fund working capital, planned capital expenditures and expansion efforts and any strategic alliances or acquisitions we may make in the future depends on our ability to generate cash in the future and on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. we cannot be sure that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our debt, including the notes. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may face liquidity issues and be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our debt, including the notes. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service and other obligations. additionally, the agreements governing our credit agreement and the indenture governing the notes limit the use of the proceeds from any disposition; as a result, we may not be allowed under these documents to use proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy our debt service obligations. further, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 21 table of contents the agreements and instruments governing our debt impose restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility. the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the notes contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to: incur additional debt; pay dividends, make other distributions or repurchase or redeem our capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; make loans and investments; sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of assets; incur or permit to exist certain liens; enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; and consolidate, amalgamate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. these covenants could have the effect of limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the markets in which we compete. in addition, the credit agreement requires us to comply with certain financial maintenance covenants. operating results below current levels or other adverse factors, including a significant increase in interest rates, could result in our being unable to comply with the financial covenants contained in our revolving credit facility. if we violate covenants under the credit agreement and are unable to obtain a waiver from our lenders, our debt under our revolving credit facility would be in default and could be accelerated by our lenders. because of cross-default provisions in the agreements and instruments governing our debt, a default under one agreement or instrument could result in a default under, and the acceleration of, our other debt. if our debt is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. if our debt is in default for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, complying with these covenants may also cause us to take actions that are not favorable to holders of the notes and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions. the price of our common stock may be volatile. the price of our common stock, which is traded on the nasdaq global select market, has been and may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. in addition, the trading volume of our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. some of the factors that could cause fluctuations in the stock price or trading volume of our common stock include: general market and economic and political conditions, including market conditions in the semiconductor industry; actual or expected variations in quarterly operating results; differences between actual operating results and those expected by investors and analysts; changes in recommendations by securities analysts; operations and stock performance of competitors; accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment of goodwill; 22 table of contents significant acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors; sales of our common stock, including sales by our directors and officers or significant investors; recruitment or departure of key personnel; and loss of key customers. we cannot assure you that the price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. in addition, the stock market in general can experience considerable price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to our performance. we may engage in future acquisitions that dilute our stockholders' ownership and cause us to incur debt and assume contingent liabilities. as part of our business strategy, we expect to continue to review potential acquisitions that could complement our current product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technical capabilities, or that may otherwise offer growth or margin improvement opportunities. in the event of future acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies, we could issue equity securities that would dilute our current stockholders' ownership, incur substantial debt or other financial obligations or assume contingent liabilities. such actions could harm our results of operations or the price of our common stock. acquisitions also entail numerous other risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including: unanticipated costs, capital expenditures or working capital requirements; acquisition-related charges and amortization of acquired technology and other intangibles; diversion of management's attention from our business; dissynergies or other harm to existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses, operations, products, technologies and personnel; and unrealized expected synergies. in order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate key employees, and our failure to do so could harm our business and our results of operations. in order to compete effectively, we must: hire and retain qualified employees; continue to develop leaders for key business units and functions; expand our presence in international locations and adapt to cultural norms of foreign locations; and train and motivate our employee base. our future operating results and success depend on keeping key technical personnel and management and expanding our sales and marketing, r&amp;d and administrative support. we do not have employment agreements with the vast majority of our employees. we must also continue to attract qualified personnel. the competition for qualified personnel is intense, and the number of people with experience, particularly in rf engineering, integrated circuit and filter design, and technical marketing and support, is limited. in addition, immigration laws may limit the pool of available talent. we cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain skilled personnel in the future, which could harm our business and our results of operations. 23 table of contents we rely on our intellectual property portfolio and may not be able to successfully protect against the use of our intellectual property by third parties. we rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. we cannot be certain that patents will be issued from any of our pending applications or that patents will be issued in all countries where our products can be sold. further, we cannot be certain that any claims allowed from pending applications will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection against our competitors. our competitors may also be able to design around our patents. the laws of some countries in which our products are developed, manufactured or sold may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as u.s. laws. this increases the possibility of piracy of our technology and products. although we intend to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology. additionally, our competitors may be able to independently develop non-infringing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. we may need to engage in legal actions to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights. generally, intellectual property litigation is both expensive and unpredictable. our involvement in intellectual property litigation could divert the attention of our management and technical personnel and have a material, adverse effect on our business. we may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. our operating results may be adversely affected if third parties were to assert claims that our products infringed their patent, copyright or other intellectual property rights. such assertions could lead to expensive and unpredictable litigation, diverting the attention of management and technical personnel. an unsuccessful result in any such litigation could have adverse effects on our business, which may include injunctions, exclusion orders and royalty payments to third parties. in addition, if one of our customers or another supplier to one of our customers were found to be infringing on third-party intellectual property rights, such finding could adversely affect the demand for our products. security breaches and other similar disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. we rely on trade secrets, technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information relating to our product development and manufacturing activities. we try to protect this information by entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, strategic partners and other parties. we also restrict access to our proprietary information. despite these efforts, internal or external parties may attempt to copy, disclose, obtain or use our proprietary information without our authorization. additionally, current, departing or former employees or third parties could attempt to improperly use or access our computer systems and networks to misappropriate our proprietary information or otherwise interrupt our business. like others, we are also potentially subject to significant system or network disruptions, including new system implementations, computer viruses, facility access issues and energy blackouts. from time to time, we have experienced attacks on our computer systems by unauthorized outside parties; however, we do not believe that such attacks have resulted in any material damage to our customers or us. because the techniques used by computer hackers and others to access or sabotage networks constantly evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate, counter or ameliorate all of these techniques. as a result, our technologies, processes and customer information may be misappropriated and the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted. any loss of such information could harm our competitive position, result in a loss of customer confidence in the adequacy of our threat mitigation and detection processes and procedures, or cause us to incur significant costs to remedy the damages caused by the incident. we routinely implement improvements to our network security safeguards and we are devoting increasing resources to the security of our information technology systems. we cannot, however, assure that such system improvements will be sufficient to prevent or limit the damage from any future cyber-attack or network disruptions. 24 table of contents we also rely on third-party service providers to protect our proprietary information. third party service providers include foundries, assembly and test contractors, distributors and other vendors that have access to our sensitive data. these providers should have safeguards in place to protect our data. failure of these parties to properly safeguard our data could also result in security breaches and loss of proprietary information. the costs related to cyber or other security threats or computer systems disruptions typically would not be fully insured or indemnified by others. occurrence of any of the events described above could result in loss of competitive advantages derived from our r&amp;d efforts or our ip. moreover, these events may result in the early obsolescence of our products, adversely affect our internal operations and reputation or degrade our financial results and stock price. we are subject to warranty claims, product recalls and product liability. from time to time, we may be subject to warranty or product liability claims that could lead to significant expense. we may also be exposed to such claims as a result of any acquisition we may undertake in the future. although we maintain reserves for reasonably estimable liabilities and purchase product liability insurance, our reserves may be inadequate to cover the uninsured portion of such claims. conversely, in some cases, amounts we reserve may ultimately exceed our actual liability for particular claims and may need to be reversed. product liability insurance is subject to significant deductibles and there is no guarantee that such insurance will be available or adequate to protect against all such claims, or we may elect to self-insure with respect to certain matters. it is possible for one of our customers to recall a product containing one of our devices. in such an event, we may incur significant costs and expenses, including among others, replacement costs, contract damage claims from our customers and reputational harm. our customer contracts typically contain warranty and indemnification provisions, and in certain cases may also contain liquidated damages provisions, relating to product quality issues. the potential liabilities associated with such provisions are significant, and in some cases, including in agreements with some of our largest customers, are potentially unlimited. any such liabilities may greatly exceed any revenue we receive from the relevant products. costs, payments or damages incurred or paid by us in connection with warranty and product liability claims and product recalls could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to stringent environmental, health and safety regulations. we are subject to a broad array of united states and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations include those related to the use, transportation, storage, handling, emission, discharge and recycling or disposal of hazardous materials used in our manufacturing, assembly and testing processes. our failure to comply with any of these existing or future laws or regulations could result in: regulatory penalties and fines; legal liabilities, including financial responsibility for remedial measures if our properties are contaminated; expenses to secure required permits and governmental approvals; suspension or curtailment of our manufacturing, assembly and test processes; and increased costs to acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment or to modify our equipment, facilities or manufacturing processes to bring them into compliance with applicable laws and regulations. existing and future environmental laws and regulations could also impact our product designs and limit or restrict the materials or components that are included in our products. in addition, many of our largest customers require us to comply with corporate social responsibility, or csr, policies, which often include employment, health, safety, environmental and other requirements that exceed applicable legal requirements. compliance with these policies increases our operating expenses and non-compliance can adversely affect customer relationships and harm our business. 25 table of contents compliance with regulations regarding the use of conflict minerals could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. regulations in the united states currently require that we determine whether certain materials used in our products, referred to as conflict minerals, originated in the democratic republic of the congo or adjoining countries, or were from recycled or scrap sources. the verification and reporting requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals that are used in the manufacture of our products. we have incurred costs and expect to incur additional costs associated with complying with these requirements. additionally, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of all minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. we may also face challenges with government regulators and our customers and suppliers if we are unable to sufficiently make any required determination that the metals used in our products are conflict free. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the general corporation law of the state of delaware may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying, deterring, preventing or rendering more difficult a change in control of qorvo that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. these provisions include: granting to the board of directors sole power to set the number of directors and fill any vacancy on the board of directors, whether such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise; the ability of the board of directors to designate and issue one or more series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, the terms of which may be determined at the sole discretion of the board of directors; the inability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; establishment of advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to the board of directors at stockholder meetings; and the inability of stockholders to act by written consent. in addition, the general corporation law of the state of delaware contains provisions that regulate business combinations between corporations and interested stockholders who own 15% or more of the corporation's voting stock, except under certain circumstances. these provisions could also discourage potential acquisition proposals and delay or prevent a change in control. these provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit of any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context, and may also make it more difficult for a third party to replace directors on our board of directors. further, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. our operating results could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies. the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see critical accounting policies and estimates in part ii, item 7 of this report). such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments that could significantly affect our results of operations. decisions we make about the scope of our future operations could affect our future financial results. changes in the business environment could lead us to decide to change the scope of operations of our business, which could result in restructuring and asset impairment charges. the amount and timing of such charges can be difficult to predict. factors that contribute to the amount and timing of such charges include: 26 table of contents the timing and execution of plans and programs that are subject to local labor law requirements, including consultation with appropriate work councils; changes in assumptions related to severance and post-retirement costs; the timing of future divestitures and the amount and type of proceeds realized from such divestitures; and changes in the fair value of certain long-lived assets and goodwill. changes in our effective tax rate may impact our results of operations. we are subject to taxation in the u.s., china, singapore, germany and numerous other foreign taxing jurisdictions. our effective tax rate is subject to fluctuations as it is impacted by a number of factors, including the following: changes in our overall profitability and the amount of profit determined to be earned and taxed in jurisdictions with differing statutory tax rates; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, including those described in note 12 to the notes to the consolidated financial statements set forth in part ii, item 8 of this report; changes in the valuation of either our gross deferred tax assets or gross deferred tax liabilities; adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; changes in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; changes in available tax credits; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; impact of the organisation for economic co-operation and development base erosion and profit shifting initiative on tax policy and enacted laws in the countries in which we operate; and a future decision to repatriate non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods. changes in the favorable tax status of our subsidiaries in costa rica and singapore would have an adverse impact on our operating results. our subsidiaries in costa rica and singapore have been granted tax holidays that effectively minimize our tax expense and that are expected to be effective through march 2024 and december 2021, respectively. in their efforts to deal with budget deficits, governments around the world are focusing on increasing tax revenues through increased audits and, potentially, increased tax rates for corporations. as part of this effort, governments continue to review their policies on granting tax holidays. in february 2017, singapore enacted legislation that will exclude from our existing development and expansion incentive grant the benefit of the reduced tax rate for intellectual property income earned after june 30, 2021. future changes in the status of either tax holiday could have a negative effect on our net income in future years. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. financial risk management we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and certain commodity prices. the overall objective of our financial risk management program is to seek a reduction in the potential negative earnings effects from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices arising from our business activities. we manage these financial exposures through operational means and by using various financial instruments. these practices may change as economic conditions change. interest rates the credit agreement includes a $300.0 million revolving credit facility, which includes a $25.0 million sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit and a $10.0 million sublimit for swing line loans. we may request, at any time and from time to time, that the revolving credit facility be increased by an amount not to exceed $150.0 million . the interest rates on this facility are variable; however, since we have no outstanding balances under the credit agreement, there is no interest rate risk related to this facility as of april 1, 2017 . currency exchange rates as a global company, our results are affected by movements in currency exchange rates. our exposure may increase or decrease over time as our foreign business levels fluctuate in the countries where we have operations, and these changes could have a material impact on our financial results. the functional currency for most of our international operations is the u.s. dollar. we have foreign operations in asia, europe and costa rica, and a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from sales to customers outside the u.s. our international revenue is primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. operating expenses and certain working capital items related to our foreign-based operations are, in some instances, denominated in the local foreign currencies and therefore are affected by changes in the u.s. dollar exchange rate in relation to foreign currencies, such as the renminbi, euro, pound sterling, costa rican colon, and yen. if the u.s. dollar weakens compared to the renminbi, euro, pound sterling, costa rican colon, yen and other currencies, our operating expenses for foreign operations will be higher when remeasured back into u.s. dollars. we seek to manage our foreign exchange risk in part through operational means. for fiscal 2017 , we incurred a foreign currency loss of $3.2 million as compared to a loss of $0.7 million in fiscal 2016 , which is recorded in other (expense) income. 52 table of contents our financial instrument holdings, including foreign receivables, cash and payables at april 1, 2017 , were analyzed to determine their sensitivity to foreign exchange rate changes. in this sensitivity analysis, we assumed that the change in one currency's rate relative to the u.s. dollar would not have an effect on other currencies' rates relative to the u.s. dollar. all other factors were held constant. if the u.s. dollar declined in value 10% in relation to the re-measured foreign currency instruments, our net income would have increased by approximately $1.9 million . if the u.s. dollar increased in value 10% in relation to the re-measured foreign currency instruments, our net income would have decreased by approximately $1.6 million . commodity prices we routinely use precious metals in the manufacture of our products. supplies for such commodities may from time to time become restricted, or general market factors and conditions may affect the pricing of such commodities. we also have an active reclamation process to capture any unused gold. while we continue to attempt to mitigate the risk of similar increases in commodities-related costs, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully safeguard against potential short-term and long-term commodity price fluctuations.risk factors. 14 risk factors. our operating results fluctuate. our revenue, earnings, margins and other operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. if demand for our products fluctuates as a result of economic conditions or for other reasons, our revenue and profitability could be impacted. our future operating results will depend on many factors, including the following: business, political and macroeconomic changes, including trade disputes and downturns in the semiconductor industry and the overall global economy; changes in consumer confidence caused by many factors, including changes in interest rates, credit markets, expectations for inflation, unemployment levels, and energy or other commodity prices; fluctuations in demand for our customers' products; our ability to forecast our customers' demand for our products accurately; the ability of third-party foundries and other third-party suppliers to manufacture, assemble and test our products in a timely and cost-effective manner; our customers' and distributors' ability to manage the inventory that they hold and to forecast accurately their demand for our products; our ability to achieve cost savings and improve yields and margins on our new and existing products; and our ability to utilize our capacity efficiently or acquire additional capacity in response to customer demand. it is likely that our future operating results could be adversely affected by one or more of the factors set forth above or other similar factors. if our future operating results are below the expectations of stock market analysts or our investors, our stock price may decline. 14 table of contents our operating results are substantially dependent on development of new products and achieving design wins as our industry's product life cycles are short and our customers' requirements change rapidly. our largest markets are characterized by short product life cycles and the frequent introduction of new products in response to evolving product requirements, driven by end user demand for more functionality, improved performance, lower costs and smaller form factors. our largest mp customers typically refresh some or all of their product portfolios by releasing new models each year. in some cases, product designs we pursue represent either opportunities to substantially increase our revenue by winning a new design or a risk of a substantial revenue loss by losing an incumbent product in a customer's device. our future success is dependent on our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely and cost-effective manner and secure production orders from our customers. the development of new products is a highly complex process, and we have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products at times in the past. our successful product development depends on a number of factors, including the following: our ability to predict market requirements and define and design new products that address those requirements; our ability to design products that meet our customers' cost, size and performance requirements; our ability to introduce new products that are competitive and can be manufactured at lower costs or that command higher prices based on superior performance; acceptance of our new product designs; the availability of qualified product design engineers; our timely completion of product designs and ramp up of new products according to our customers' needs with acceptable manufacturing yields; and market acceptance of our customers' products and the duration of the life cycle of such products. we may not be able to design and introduce new products in a timely or cost-efficient manner, and our new products may fail to meet market or customer requirements. most major product design opportunities that we pursue involve multiple competitors, and we could lose a new product design opportunity to a competitor that offers a lower cost or equal or superior performing product. if we are unsuccessful in achieving design wins against our competitors, our revenue and operating results will be adversely affected. even when a design win is achieved, our success is not assured. design wins may require significant expenditures by us and typically precede volume revenue by six to nine months or more. many customers seek a second source for all major components in their devices, which can significantly reduce the revenue obtained from a design win. in many cases, the average selling prices of our products decline over the products' lives, and we must achieve yield improvements, cost reductions and other productivity enhancements in order to maintain profitability. the actual value of a design win to us will ultimately depend on the commercial success of our customers' products. we depend on a few large customers for a substantial portion of our revenue. a substantial portion of our mp revenue comes from large purchases by a small number of customers. our future operating results depend on both the success of our largest customers and on our success in diversifying our products and customer base. collectively, our two largest end customers accounted for an aggregate of approximately 44% , 45% and 49% of our revenue for fiscal years 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. we typically manufacture custom products on an exclusive basis for individual customers for a negotiated period of time. increasingly, the top-tier cellular handset oems are releasing fewer new phone models on an annual basis, which heightens the importance of achieving design wins for these larger opportunities. while the financial rewards and market affirmation from a design win for these premier customers are greater, competition for these projects is intense. the concentration of our revenue with a relatively small number of customers makes us particularly dependent on factors, both positive and negative, affecting those customers. if demand for their products increases, our results are favorably impacted, while if demand for their products decreases, they may reduce their purchases of, 15 table of contents or stop purchasing, our products and our operating results would suffer. even if we achieve a design win, our customers can delay or cancel the release of a new handset for any reason. most of our customers can cease incorporating our products into their devices with little notice to us and with little or no penalty. the loss of a large customer and failure to add new customers to replace lost revenue would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we face risks of a loss of revenue if contracts with the united states government or defense and aerospace contractors are canceled or delayed or if defense spending is reduced. we receive a portion of our revenue from the united states government and from prime contractors on united states government-sponsored programs, principally for defense and aerospace applications. these programs are subject to delays or cancellation. further, spending on defense and aerospace programs can vary significantly depending on funding from the united states government. we believe our government and defense and aerospace business has been negatively affected in the past by external factors such as sequestration and political pressure to reduce federal defense spending. reductions in defense and aerospace funding or the loss of a significant defense and aerospace program or contract would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. we depend heavily on third parties. we purchase numerous component parts, substrates and silicon-based products from external suppliers. we also utilize third-party suppliers for numerous services, including die processing, wafer bumping, test and tape and reel. the use of external suppliers involves a number of risks, including the possibility of material disruptions in the supply of key components and the lack of control over delivery schedules, capacity constraints, manufacturing yields, product quality and fabrication costs. although our key suppliers commit to us to be compliant with applicable iso 9001 and/or ts-16949 quality standards, we have experienced quality and reliability issues in the past with certain suppliers. quality or reliability issues in our supply chain could negatively affect our products, our reputation and our results of operations. we face risks related to sales through distributors. we sell a significant portion of our products through third party distributors. we depend on these distributors to help us create end customer demand, provide technical support and other value-added services to customers, fill customer orders, and stock our products. we may rely on one or more key distributors for a product, and a material change in our relationship with one or more of these distributors or their failure to perform as expected could reduce our revenue. our ability to add or replace distributors for some of our products may be limited because our end customers may be hesitant to accept the addition or replacement of a distributor due to advantages in the incumbent distributors' technical support and favorable business terms related to payments, discounts and stocking of acceptable inventory levels. using third parties for distribution exposes us to many risks, including competitive pressure, concentration, credit risk, and compliance risks. other third parties may use one of our distributors to sell products that compete with our products, and we may need to provide financial and other incentives to the distributors to focus them on the sale of our products. our distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivable and financial results. violations of the foreign corrupt practices act or similar laws by our distributors or other third-party intermediaries could have a material impact on our business. failure to manage risks related to our use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position. we face risks associated with the operation of our manufacturing facilities. we operate wafer fabrication facilities in florida, north carolina, oregon and texas. we currently use several international and domestic assembly suppliers, as well as internal assembly facilities in china, costa rica, germany and the u.s. to assemble and test our products. we currently have our own test and tape and reel facilities located in china, costa rica and the u.s., and we also utilize contract suppliers and partners in asia to test our products. a number of factors related to our facilities will affect our business and financial results, including the following: our ability to adjust production capacity in a timely fashion in response to changes in demand for our products; 16 table of contents the significant fixed costs of operating the facilities; factory utilization rates; our ability to qualify our facilities for new products and new technologies in a timely manner; the availability of raw materials, the impact of the volatility of commodity pricing and tariffs imposed on raw materials, including substrates, gold, platinum and high purity source materials such as gallium, aluminum, arsenic, indium, silicon, phosphorous and palladium; our manufacturing cycle times; our manufacturing yields; the political, regulatory and economic risks associated with our international manufacturing operations; potential violations by our i nternational employees or third-party agents of international or u.s. laws relevant to foreign operations; our ability to hire, train and manage qualified production personnel; our compliance with applicable environmental and other laws and regulations; and our ability to avoid prolonged periods of down-time in our facilities for any reason. business disruptions could harm our business, lead to a decline in revenues and increase our costs. our worldwide operations and business could be disrupted by natural disasters, industrial accidents, cybersecurity incidents, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, extreme weather conditions, public health issues, military actions, acts of terrorism, political or regulatory issues and other man-made disasters or catastrophic events. we carry commercial property damage and business interruption insurance against various risks, with limits we deem adequate for reimbursement for damage to our fixed assets and resulting disruption of our operations. however, the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could harm our business and result in significant losses, a decline in revenue and an increase in our costs and expenses. any disruptions from these events could require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations and could also have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results to the extent that losses are uninsured or exceed insurance recoveries and to the extent that such disruptions adversely impact our relationships with our customers. if we experience poor manufacturing yields, our operating results may suffer. our products have unique designs and are fabricated using multiple semiconductor process technologies that are highly complex. in many cases, our products are assembled in customized packages. many of our products consist of multiple components in a single module and feature enhanced levels of integration and complexity. our customers insist that our products be designed to meet their exact specifications for quality, performance and reliability. our manufacturing yield is a combination of yields across the entire supply chain, including wafer fabrication, assembly and test yields. defects in a single component in an assembled module product can impact the yield for the entire module, which means the adverse economic impacts of an individual defect can be multiplied many times over if we fail to discover the defect before the module is assembled. due to the complexity of our products, we periodically experience difficulties in achieving acceptable yields and other quality issues, particularly with respect to new products. our customers test our products once they have been assembled into their products. the number of usable products that result from our production process can fluctuate as a result of many factors, including: design errors; 17 table of contents defects in photomasks (which are used to print circuits on a wafer); minute impurities in materials used; contamination of the manufacturing environment; equipment failure or variations in the manufacturing processes; losses from broken wafers or other human error; and defects in packaging. we constantly seek to improve our manufacturing yields. typically, for a given level of sales, when our yields improve, our gross margins improve, and when our yields decrease, our unit costs are higher, our margins are lower, and our operating results are adversely affected. costs of product defects and deviations from required specifications could include the following: writing off the value of inventory; disposing of products that cannot be fixed; recalling products that have been shipped; providing product replacements or modifications; direct and indirect costs incurred by our customers in recalling their products due to defects in our products; and defending against litigation. these costs could be significant and could reduce our gross margins. our reputation with customers also could be damaged as a result of product defects and quality issues, and product demand could be reduced, which could harm our business and financial results. we are subject to increased inventory risks and costs because we build our products based on forecasts provided by customers before receiving purchase orders for the products. in order to ensure availability of our products for some of our largest end customers, we start manufacturing certain products in advance of receiving purchase orders based on forecasts provided by these customers. however, these forecasts do not represent binding purchase commitments and we do not recognize sales for these products until they are shipped to or consumed by the customer. as a result, we incur significant inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales. because demand for our products may not materialize, or may be lower than expected, manufacturing based on forecasts subjects us to heightened risks of higher inventory carrying costs, increased obsolescence and higher operating costs. these inventory risks are exacerbated when our customers purchase indirectly through contract manufacturers or hold component inventory levels greater than their consumption rate because this reduces our visibility regarding the customers' accumulated levels of inventory. if product demand decreases or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to write-off inventory, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin and other operating results. 18 table of contents we sell certain of our products based on reference designs of platform providers, and our inability to effectively manage or maintain our evolving relationships with these companies may have an adverse effect on our business. platform providers are typically large companies that provide system reference designs for oems and odms that include the platform provider's baseband and other complementary products. a platform provider may own or control ip that gives it a strong market position for its baseband products for certain air interface standards, which provides it with significant influence and control over sales of rf products for these standards. platform providers historically looked to us and our competitors to provide rf products to their customers as part of the overall system design, and we competed with other rf companies to have our products included in the platform provider's system reference design. this market dynamic has evolved in recent years as platform providers have worked to develop more fully integrated solutions that include their own rf technologies and components. platform providers may be in a different business from ours or we may be their customer or direct competitor. accordingly, we must balance our interest in obtaining new business with competitive and other factors. because platform providers control the overall system reference design, if they offer competitive rf technologies or their own rf solutions as a part of their reference design and exclude our products from the design, we are at a distinct competitive disadvantage with oems and odms that are seeking a turn-key design solution, even if our products offer superior performance. this requires us to work more closely with oems and odms to secure the design of our products in their handsets and other devices. our relationships with platform providers are complex and evolving, and the inability to effectively manage or maintain these relationships could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to risks from international sales and operations. we operate globally with sales offices and r&amp;d activities as well as manufacturing, assembly and testing facilities in multiple countries, and some of our business activities may be concentrated in one or more geographic areas. as a result, we are subject to regulatory, geopolitical and other risks associated with doing business outside the u.s., including: global and local economic and political conditions; currency controls and fluctuations; tariff, trade (including import/export regulations) and other related restrictions and regulations; labor market conditions and workers' rights affecting our transportation or manufacturing arrangements or those of our customers or suppliers; disruptions of capital and trading markets; occurrences of geopolitical crises such as terrorist activity, armed conflict, civil or military unrest or political instability, which may disrupt manufacturing, assembly, logistics, security and communications and result in reduced demand for our products; compliance with laws and regulations that differ among jurisdictions, including those covering taxes, intellectual property ownership and infringement, imports and exports, anti-corruption and anti-bribery, antitrust and competition, data privacy, and environment, health, and safety; and pandemics and similar major health concerns, which could adversely affect our business and our customer order patterns. sales to customers located outside the u.s. accounted for approximately 82% of our revenue in fiscal 2018 , of which approximately 52% and 19% were attributable to sales to customers located in china and taiwan, respectively. we expect that revenue from international sales to china and other markets will continue to be a significant part of our total revenue. any weakness in the chinese economy could result in a decrease in demand for consumer products that contain our products, which could materially and adversely affect our business. the 19 table of contents imposition by the u.s. of tariffs on goods imported from china and other government actions that restrict our ability to sell our products to chinese customers, and countermeasures imposed by china in response, could directly or indirectly adversely impact our manufacturing costs and the sales of our products in china and other markets. as a global company, our results are affected by movements in currency exchange rates. our exposure may increase or decrease over time as our foreign business levels fluctuate in the countries where we have operations, and these changes could have a material impact on our financial results. the functional currency for most of our international operations is the u.s. dollar. we have foreign operations in asia, europe and costa rica and europe, and a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from sales to customers outside the u.s. our international revenue is primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. operating expenses and certain working capital items related to our foreign-based operations are, in some instances, denominated in the local foreign currencies and therefore are affected by changes in the u.s. dollar exchange rate in relation to foreign currencies, such as the costa rican colon, euro, pound sterling, renminbi and singapore dollar. if the u.s. dollar weakens compared to these and other currencies, our operating expenses for foreign operations will be higher when remeasured back into u.s. dollars. economic regulation in china could adversely impact our business and results of operations. we have a significant portion of our assembly and testing capacity in china. in recent years, the chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and wide fluctuations in the rate of inflation. in response to these factors, the chinese government has, from time to time, adopted measures to regulate growth and contain inflation, including measures designed to restrict credit or to control prices. such actions in the future, as well as other changes in chinese laws and regulations, could increase the cost of doing business in china or decrease the demand for our products in china, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we operate in a very competitive industry and must continue to implement innovative technologies. we compete with several companies primarily engaged in the business of designing, manufacturing and selling rf solutions, as well as suppliers of discrete integrated circuits and modules. in addition to our direct competitors, some of our largest end customers and leading platform partners also compete with us to some extent by designing and manufacturing their own products. increased competition from any source could adversely affect our operating results through lower prices for our products, reduced demand for our products, losses of existing design slots with key customers and a corresponding reduction in our ability to recover development, engineering and manufacturing costs. many of our existing and potential competitors have entrenched market positions, historical affiliations with oems, considerable internal manufacturing capacity, established ip rights and substantial technological capabilities. the semiconductor industry has experienced increased industry consolidation over the last several years, a trend we expect to continue. many of our existing and potential competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing or marketing resources than we do. we cannot be sure that we will be able to compete successfully with our competitors. 20 table of contents industry overcapacity could cause us to underutilize our manufacturing facilities and have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. it is difficult to predict future demand for our products, which makes it difficult to estimate future requirements for production capacity. capacity expansion projects have long lead times and require capital commitments based on forecasted product trends and demand well in advance of production orders from customers. in recent years, we have made significant capital investments to expand our baw, saw and tc-saw filter capacity to address forecasted future demand patterns. in the past, capacity additions by us and our competitors sometimes exceeded demand requirements, leading to overcapacity situations. fluctuations in the growth rate of industry capacity relative to the growth rate in demand for our products also lead to overcapacity and contribute to cyclicality in the semiconductor market. as many of our manufacturing costs are fixed, these costs cannot be reduced in proportion to the reduced revenues experienced during periods in which we underutilize our manufacturing facilities as a result of overcapacity. if the demand for our products is not consistent with our expectations, underutilization of our manufacturing facilities may have a material adverse effect on average selling prices, our gross margin and other operating results. if demand for our products experiences a prolonged decrease, we may be required to write down our long-lived assets or shorten the useful lives of underutilized assets and accelerate depreciation, which would increase our expenses. we may not be able to borrow funds under our credit facility or secure future financing. on december 5, 2017, we entered into a five-year unsecured senior credit facility pursuant to a credit agreement with bank of america, n.a., as administrative agent, swing line lender and l/c issuer, and a syndicate of lenders (the "credit agreement"). the credit agreement includes a $300.0 million revolving credit facility which includes a $25.0 million sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit and a $10.0 million sublimit for swing line loans. we may request, at any time and from time to time, that the revolving credit facility or the term loan (as defined below) be increased by an amount not to exceed $300.0 million . the revolving credit facility is available to finance working capital, capital expenditures and for other corporate purposes. this facility contains various conditions, covenants and representations with which we must be in compliance in order to borrow funds. we cannot assure that we will be in compliance with these conditions, covenants and representations in the future when we may need to borrow funds under this facility. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our debt, including our term loan and senior notes, or to fund capital expenditures and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our debt obligations and financing requirements, which may not be successful or on terms favorable to us. the credit agreement also includes a $400.0 million senior delayed draw term loan (the "term loan"), of which $100.0 million was funded at closing and then subsequently repaid during march 2018. at our discretion, we may draw down the remaining balance in up to two advances prior to june 5, 2018. in november 2015, we issued $450.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.75% senior notes due 2023 (the "2023 notes") and $550.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7.00% senior notes due 2025 (the "2025 notes" and together with the 2023 notes, the "notes"). the notes were issued pursuant to an indenture dated as of november 19, 2015 (the "indenture"). in september 2016, we completed an exchange offer, in which all of the 2023 notes and substantially all of the 2025 notes were exchanged for new notes that have been registered under the securities act of 1933, as amended (the "securities act"). our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations, including the term loan and the notes, and to fund working capital, planned capital expenditures and expansion efforts and any strategic alliances or acquisitions we may make in the future depends on our ability to generate cash in the future and on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. we cannot be sure that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our debt, including the term loan and the notes. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may face liquidity issues and be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our debt, including the term loan and the notes. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service and other obligations. additionally, the agreements governing our credit agreement and the indenture governing the notes limit the use of the proceeds 21 table of contents from any disposition; as a result, we may not be allowed under these documents to use proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy our debt service obligations. further, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. the agreements and instruments governing our debt impose restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility. the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility and the term loan and the indenture governing the notes contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to: incur additional debt; pay dividends, make other distributions or repurchase or redeem our capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; make loans and investments; sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of assets; incur or permit to exist certain liens; enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; and consolidate, amalgamate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. these covenants could have the effect of limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the markets in which we compete. in addition, the credit agreement requires us to comply with certain financial maintenance covenants. operating results below current levels or other adverse factors, including a significant increase in interest rates, could result in our being unable to comply with the financial covenants contained in our revolving credit facility. if we violate covenants under the credit agreement and are unable to obtain a waiver from our lenders, our debt under our revolving credit facility would be in default and could be accelerated by our lenders. because of cross-default provisions in the agreements and instruments governing our debt, a default under one agreement or instrument could result in a default under, and the acceleration of, our other debt. if our debt is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. if our debt is in default for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, complying with these covenants may also cause us to take actions that are not favorable to holders of the notes and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions. the price of our common stock may be volatile. the price of our common stock, which is traded on the nasdaq global select market, has been and may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. in addition, the trading volume of our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. some of the factors that could cause fluctuations in the stock price or trading volume of our common stock include: general market and economic and political conditions, including market conditions in the semiconductor industry; actual or expected variations in quarterly operating results; differences between actual operating results and those expected by investors and analysts; 22 table of contents changes in recommendations by securities analysts; operations and stock performance of competitors and major customers; accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment of goodwill and restructuring; significant acquisitions, strategic alliances, capital commitments, or new products announced by us or by our competitors; sales of our common stock, including sales by our directors and officers or significant investors; repurchases of our common stock; recruitment or departure of key personnel; and loss of key customers. we cannot assure you that the price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. in addition, the stock market in general can experience considerable price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to our performance. our stock repurchases may fluctuate. the amount and timing of our stock repurchases may fluctuate based on a number of factors, including our priorities for the use of our cash for other purposes, such as capital spending and acquisitions, restrictions under securities laws and because of changes in our cash flows, tax laws and the market price of our common stock. we may engage in future acquisitions that dilute our stockholders' ownership, cause us to incur debt and assume contingent liabilities or adversely affect our results of operations. as part of our business strategy, we expect to continue to review potential acquisitions and strategic investments that could complement our current product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technical capabilities, or that may otherwise offer growth or margin improvement opportunities. in the event of future acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies, we could issue equity securities that would dilute our current stockholders' ownership, incur substantial debt or other financial obligations or assume contingent liabilities. such actions could harm our results of operations or the price of our common stock. acquisitions and strategic investments also entail numerous other risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including: unanticipated costs, capital expenditures or working capital requirements; acquisition-related charges and amortization of acquired technology and other intangibles; the potential loss of key employees from a company we acquire or in which we invest; diversion of management's attention from our business; dissynergies or other harm to existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; losses or impairment of investments from unsuccessful research and development by companies in which we invest; failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses, operations, products, technologies and personnel; and unrealized expected synergies. 23 table of contents in order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate key employees, and our failure to do so could harm our business and our results of operations. in order to compete effectively, we must: hire and retain qualified employees; continue to develop leaders for key business units and functions; expand our presence in international locations and adapt to cultural norms of foreign locations; and train and motivate our employee base. our future operating results and success depend on keeping key technical personnel and management and expanding our sales and marketing, r&amp;d and administrative support. we do not have employment agreements with the vast majority of our employees. we must also continue to attract qualified personnel. the competition for qualified personnel is intense, and the number of people with experience, particularly in rf engineering, integrated circuit and filter design, and technical marketing and support, is limited. in addition, existing or new immigration laws, policies or regulations in the u.s. may limit the pool of available talent. travels bans, difficulties obtaining visas and other restrictions on international travel could make it more difficult to effectively manage our international operations, collaborate as a global company or service our international customer base. we cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain skilled personnel in the future, which could harm our business and our results of operations. we rely on our intellectual property portfolio and may not be able to successfully protect against the use of our intellectual property by third parties. we rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. we cannot be certain that patents will be issued from any of our pending applications or that patents will be issued in all countries where our products can be sold. further, we cannot be certain that any claims allowed from pending applications will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection against our competitors. our competitors may also be able to design around our patents. the laws of some countries in which our products are developed, manufactured or sold may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as u.s. laws. this increases the possibility of piracy of our technology and products. although we intend to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology. additionally, our competitors may be able to independently develop non-infringing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. we may need to engage in legal actions to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights. generally, intellectual property litigation is both expensive and unpredictable. our involvement in intellectual property litigation could divert the attention of our management and technical personnel and have a material, adverse effect on our business. we may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. our operating results may be adversely affected if third parties were to assert claims that our products infringed their patent, copyright or other intellectual property rights. such assertions could lead to expensive and unpredictable litigation, diverting the attention of management and technical personnel. an unsuccessful result in any such litigation could have adverse effects on our business, which may include injunctions, exclusion orders and royalty payments to third parties. in addition, if one of our customers or another supplier to one of our customers were found to be infringing on third-party intellectual property rights, such finding could adversely affect the demand for our products. 24 table of contents security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our proprietary information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. we rely on trade secrets, technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information relating to our product development and manufacturing activities to provide us with competitive advantages. we protect this information by entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, strategic partners and other third parties. we also design our computer networks and implement various procedures to restrict unauthorized access to our proprietary information. we face internal and external data security threats. current, departing or former employees or third parties could attempt to improperly use or access our computer systems and networks to copy, obtain, or misappropriate our proprietary information or otherwise interrupt our business. like others, we are also subject to significant system or network disruptions from numerous causes, including computer viruses and other cyber-attacks, facility access issues, new system implementations and energy blackouts. security breaches, computer malware, phishing, spoofing, and other cyber-attacks have become more prevalent and sophisticated in recent years. while we defend against these threats on a daily basis, we do not believe that such attacks to date have caused us any material damage. because the techniques used by computer hackers and others to access or sabotage networks constantly evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate, counter or ameliorate all of these techniques. as a result, our and our customers' proprietary information may be misappropriated and the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted. any loss of such information could harm our competitive position, result in a loss of customer confidence in the adequacy of our threat mitigation and detection processes and procedures, or cause us to incur significant costs to remedy the damages caused by the incident. we routinely implement improvements to our network security safeguards and we are devoting increasing resources to the security of our information technology systems. we cannot, however, assure that such system improvements will be sufficient to prevent or limit the damage from any future cyber-attack or network disruptions. the costs related to cyber-attacks or other security threats or computer systems disruptions typically would not be fully insured or indemnified by others. occurrence of any of the events described above could result in loss of competitive advantages derived from our r&amp;d efforts or our ip. moreover, these events may result in the early obsolescence of our products, product development delays, or diversion of the attention of management and key information technology and other resources, or otherwise adversely affect our internal operations and reputation or degrade our financial results and stock price. we may be subject to theft, loss, or misuse of personal data by or about our employees, customers or other third parties, which could increase our expenses, damage our reputation, or result in legal or regulatory proceedings. in the ordinary course of our business, we have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information regarding our employees and others that is subject to privacy and security laws and regulations. the theft, loss, or misuse of personal data collected, used, stored, or transferred by us to run our business, or by our third party service providers, including business process software applications providers and other vendors that have access to sensitive data, could result in damage to our reputation, disruption of our business activities, significantly increased business and security costs or costs related to defending legal claims. global privacy legislation, enforcement, and policy activity in this area are rapidly expanding and creating a complex regulatory compliance environment. for example, the european union adopted the general data protection regulation ("gdpr"), which requires companies to meet new requirements beginning in may 2018 regarding the handling of personal data, including its use, protection and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete such data about themselves. failure to meet gdpr requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. in addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the u.s., europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and fluid, and may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. complying with these changing laws has caused, and could continue to cause, us to incur substantial costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. further, failure to comply with existing or new rules may result in significant penalties or orders to stop the alleged non-compliant activity. finally, even our inadvertent failure to comply with federal, state, or international privacy- 25 table of contents related or data protection laws and regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others. we are subject to warranty claims, product recalls and product liability. from time to time, we may be subject to warranty or product liability claims that could lead to significant expense. we may also be exposed to such claims as a result of any acquisition we may undertake in the future. although we maintain reserves for reasonably estimable liabilities and purchase product liability insurance, we may elect to self-insure with respect to certain matters and our reserves may be inadequate to cover the uninsured portion of such claims. product liability insurance is subject to significant deductibles and such insurance may be unavailable or inadequate to protect against all claims. if one of our customers recalls a product containing one of our devices, we may incur significant costs and expenses, including replacement costs, direct and indirect product recall-related costs, diversion of technical and other resources and reputational harm. our customer contracts typically contain warranty and indemnification provisions, and in certain cases may also contain liquidated damages provisions, relating to product quality issues. the potential liabilities associated with such provisions are significant, and in some cases, including in agreements with some of our largest end customers, are potentially unlimited. any such liabilities may greatly exceed any revenue we receive from sale of the relevant products. costs, payments or damages incurred or paid by us in connection with warranty and product liability claims and product recalls could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to risks associated with environmental, health and safety regulations and climate change. we are subject to a broad array of u.s. and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations include those related to the use, transportation, storage, handling, emission, discharge and recycling or disposal of hazardous materials used in our manufacturing, assembly and testing processes. our failure to comply with any of these existing or future laws or regulations could result in: regulatory penalties and fines; legal liabilities, including financial responsibility for remedial measures if our properties are contaminated; expenses to secure required permits and governmental approvals; reputational damage; suspension or curtailment of our manufacturing, assembly and test processes; and increased costs to acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment or to modify our equipment, facilities or manufacturing processes to bring them into compliance with applicable laws and regulations. existing and future environmental laws and regulations could also impact our product designs and limit or restrict the materials or components that are included in our products. in addition, many of our largest end customers require us to comply with corporate social responsibility policies, which often include employment, health, safety, environmental and other requirements that exceed applicable legal requirements. compliance with these policies increases our operating expenses and non-compliance can adversely affect customer relationships and harm our business. new climate change laws and regulations could require us to change our manufacturing processes or procure substitute raw materials that may cost more or be more difficult to procure. in addition, new restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases could result in increased costs for us and our suppliers. various jurisdictions are developing other climate change-based regulations that also may increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results. we expect increased worldwide regulatory activity relating to climate change in the future. future compliance with these laws and regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations. 26 table of contents compliance with regulations regarding the use of conflict minerals could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. regulations in the u.s. currently require that we determine whether certain materials used in our products, referred to as conflict minerals, originated in the democratic republic of the congo or adjoining countries, or were from recycled or scrap sources. the verification and reporting requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals that are used in the manufacture of our products. we have incurred costs and expect to incur additional costs associated with complying with these requirements. additionally, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of all minerals used in our products through the due diligence procedures that we implement. we may also face challenges with government regulators and our customers and suppliers if we are unable to sufficiently make any required determination that the metals used in our products are conflict free. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the general corporation law of the state of delaware may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying, deterring, preventing or rendering more difficult a change in control of qorvo that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. these provisions include: granting to the board of directors sole power to set the number of directors and fill any vacancy on the board of directors, whether such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise; the ability of the board of directors to designate and issue one or more series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, the terms of which may be determined at the sole discretion of the board of directors; the inability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; establishment of advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to the board of directors at stockholder meetings; and the inability of stockholders to act by written consent. in addition, the general corporation law of the state of delaware contains provisions that regulate business combinations between corporations and interested stockholders who own 15% or more of the corporation's voting stock, except under certain circumstances. these provisions could also discourage potential acquisition proposals and delay or prevent a change in control. these provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit of any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context, and may also make it more difficult for a third party to replace directors on our board of directors. further, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. our operating results could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies. the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see "critical accounting policies and estimates" in part ii, item 7 of this report). such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments that could significantly affect our results of operations. decisions we make about the scope of our future operations could affect our future financial results. from time to time, changes in the business environment have led us to change the scope of our operations or business, which has resulted in restructuring and asset impairment charges, and this could occur in the future. the 27 table of contents amount and timing of such charges can be difficult to predict. factors that contribute to the amount and timing of such charges include: the timing and execution of plans and programs that are subject to local labor law requirements, including consultation with appropriate work councils; changes in assumptions related to severance and post-retirement costs; the timing of future divestitures and the amount and type of proceeds realized from such divestitures; and changes in the fair value of certain long-lived assets and goodwill. changes in our effective tax rate may impact our results of operations. we are subject to taxation in china, germany, singapore, the u.s. and numerous other foreign taxing jurisdictions. our effective tax rate is subject to fluctuations as it is impacted by a number of factors, including the following: changes in our overall profitability and the amount of profit determined to be earned and taxed in jurisdictions with differing statutory tax rates; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, including those described in note 12 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements set forth in part ii, item 8 of this report; changes in the valuation of either our gross deferred tax assets or gross deferred tax liabilities; adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; changes in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; changes in available tax credits; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and a future decision to repatriate non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided country withholding taxes incurred upon repatriation. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods. changes in the favorable tax status of our subsidiaries in costa rica and singapore would have an adverse impact on our operating results. our subsidiaries in costa rica and singapore have been granted tax holidays that effectively minimize our tax expense and that are expected to be effective through march 2024 and december 2021, respectively. in their efforts to deal with budget deficits, governments around the world are focusing on increasing tax revenues through increased audits and, potentially, increased tax rates for corporations. as part of this effort, governments continue to review their policies on granting tax holidays. in february 2017, singapore enacted legislation that will exclude from our existing development and expansion incentive grant the benefit of the reduced tax rate for intellectual property income earned after june 30, 2021. future changes in the status of either tax holiday could have a negative effect on our net income in future years. the impact of new u.s. tax legislation is uncertain and could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows and results of operations. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. enacted comprehensive tax legislation, commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act (the "tax act"), which includes a number of changes to u.s. tax laws that impact us, including a reduction in the u.s. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, a one-time mandatory deemed repatriation tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred, and a new minimum tax on certain foreign earnings. 28 table of contents based on our current analysis of the changes enacted by the tax act, it will continue to have a significant impact on our results of operations. the tax act requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required under u.s. tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the tax act, significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced. the united states treasury department, the internal revenue service, and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the tax act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our initial interpretation. as we complete our analysis of the tax act, review all information, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance, we may adjust the initial provisional amounts that we have recorded, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. the organisation for economic co-operation and development base erosion and profit shifting initiative on tax policy and enacted laws in the countries in which we operate could increase our tax obligations. many countries are beginning to implement legislation and other guidance to align their international tax rules with the organisation for economic co-operation's base erosion and profit shifting recommendations and action plan, which aim to standardize and modernize global corporate tax policy, including changes to cross-border tax, transfer pricing documentation rules, and nexus-based tax incentive practices. if these changes are adopted by countries in which we do business, our tax obligations in these countries could increase. furthermore, as a result of the heightened scrutiny of corporate taxation policies, prior decisions by tax authorities regarding treatments and positions of corporate income taxes could be subject to enforcement activities, and legislative investigation and inquiry, which could also result in changes in tax policies or prior tax rulings. any such changes in policies or rulings may also increase our effective tax rate or result in the taxes we previously paid being subject to change, which may harm our financial position and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. financial risk management we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and certain commodity prices. the overall objective of our financial risk management program is to seek a reduction in the potential negative earnings effects from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and commodity prices arising from our business activities. we manage these financial exposures through operational means and by using various financial instruments. these practices may change as economic conditions change. interest rates 51 table of contents the interest rates under our credit agreement are variable, however, since we have no outstanding balances under the credit agreement, there is no interest rate risk related to this facility as of march 31, 2018 . currency exchange rates as a global company, our results are affected by movements in currency exchange rates. our exposure may increase or decrease over time as our foreign business levels fluctuate in the countries where we have operations, and these changes could have a material impact on our financial results. the functional currency for most of our international operations is the u.s. dollar. we have foreign operations in asia, costa rica and europe, and a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from sales to customers outside the u.s. our international revenue is primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. operating expenses and certain working capital items related to our foreign-based operations are, in some instances, denominated in the local foreign currencies and therefore are affected by changes in the u.s. dollar exchange rate in relation to foreign currencies, such as the costa rican colon, euro, pound sterling, renminbi and singapore dollar. if the u.s. dollar weakens compared to these and other currencies, our operating expenses for foreign operations will be higher when remeasured back into u.s. dollars. we seek to manage our foreign exchange risk in part through operational means. for fiscal 2018 , we incurred a foreign currency loss of $2.8 million as compared to a loss of $3.2 million in fiscal 2017 , which is recorded in other (expense) income. our financial instrument holdings, including foreign receivables, cash and payables at march 31, 2018 , were analyzed to determine their sensitivity to foreign exchange rate changes. in this sensitivity analysis, we assumed that the change in one currency's rate relative to the u.s. dollar would not have an effect on other currencies' rates relative to the u.s. dollar. all other factors were held constant. if the u.s. dollar declined in value 10% in relation to the re-measured foreign currency instruments, our net income would have decreased by approximately $2.7 million . if the u.s. dollar increased in value 10% in relation to the re-measured foreign currency instruments, our net income would have increased by approximately $2.2 million . commodity prices we routinely use precious metals in the manufacture of our products. supplies for such commodities may from time to time become restricted, or general market factors and conditions may affect the pricing of such commodities. we also have an active reclamation process to capture any unused gold. while we continue to attempt to mitigate the risk of similar increases in commodities-related costs, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully safeguard against potential short-term and long-term commodity price fluctuations.risk factors. 11 risk factors. our operating results fluctuate. our revenue, earnings, margins and other operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. if demand for our products fluctuates as a result of economic conditions or for other reasons, our revenue and profitability could be impacted. our future operating results will depend on many factors, including the following: business, political and macroeconomic changes, including trade disputes and downturns in the semiconductor industry and the overall global economy; changes in consumer confidence caused by many factors, including changes in interest rates, credit markets, expectations for inflation, unemployment levels, and energy or other commodity prices; fluctuations in demand for our customers' products; our ability to forecast our customers' demand for our products accurately; the ability of third-party foundries and other third-party suppliers to manufacture, assemble and test our products in a timely and cost-effective manner; our customers' and distributors' ability to manage the inventory that they hold and to forecast accurately their demand for our products; our ability to achieve cost savings and improve yields and margins on our new and existing products; our ability to realize the expected benefits of any acquisitions or strategic investments, including our recent acquisition of active-semi international, inc. ( active-semi ); and 11 table of contents our ability to utilize our capacity efficiently or to acquire additional capacity in response to customer demand. it is likely that our future operating results could be adversely affected by one or more of the factors set forth above or other similar factors. in addition, any prolonged adverse effect on revenue could alter our anticipated working capital needs and interfere with our short-term and long-term strategies. if our future operating results are below the expectations of stock market analysts or our investors, our stock price may decline. our operating results are substantially dependent on development of new products and achieving design wins as our industry's product life cycles are short and our customers' requirements change rapidly. our largest markets are characterized by short product life cycles and the frequent introduction of new products in response to evolving product requirements, driven by end user demand for more functionality, improved performance, lower costs and smaller form factors. our largest mp customers typically refresh some or all of their product portfolios by releasing new models each year. in some cases, product designs we pursue represent either opportunities to substantially increase our revenue by winning a new design or a risk of a substantial revenue loss by losing an incumbent product in a customer's device. our future success is dependent on our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely and cost-effective manner and secure production orders from our customers. the development of new products is a highly complex process, and we have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products at times in the past. our successful product development depends on a number of factors, including the following: our ability to predict market requirements and define and design new products that address those requirements; our ability to design products that meet our customers' cost, size and performance requirements; our ability to introduce new products that are competitive and can be manufactured at lower costs or that command higher prices based on superior performance; acceptance of our new product designs; the availability of qualified product design engineers; our timely completion of product designs and ramp up of new products according to our customers' needs with acceptable manufacturing yields; and market acceptance of our customers' products and the duration of the life cycle of such products. we may not be able to design and introduce new products in a timely or cost-efficient manner, and our new products may fail to meet market or customer requirements. most major product design opportunities that we pursue involve multiple competitors, and we could lose a new product design opportunity to a competitor that offers a lower cost or equal or superior performing product. if we are unsuccessful in achieving design wins against our competitors, our revenue and operating results will be adversely affected. even when a design win is achieved, our success is not assured. design wins may require significant expenditures by us and typically precede volume revenue by six to nine months or more. many customers seek a second source for all major components in their devices, which can significantly reduce the revenue obtained from a design win. in many cases, the average selling prices of our products decline over the products' lives, and we must achieve yield improvements, cost reductions and other productivity enhancements in order to maintain profitability. the actual value of a design win to us will ultimately depend on the commercial success of our customers' products. we depend on a few large customers for a substantial portion of our revenue. a substantial portion of our mp revenue comes from large purchases by a small number of customers. our future operating results depend on both the success of our largest customers and on our success in diversifying our products and customer base. collectively, our two largest end customers accounted for an aggregate of approximately 45% , 44% and 45% of our revenue for fiscal years 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 12 table of contents the top-tier cellular handset oems are releasing fewer new phone models on an annual basis, which heightens the importance of achieving design wins for these larger opportunities. while the financial rewards and market affirmation from a design win for these premier customers are greater, competition for these projects is intense. the concentration of our revenue with a relatively small number of customers makes us particularly dependent on factors, both positive and negative, affecting those customers. if demand for their products increases, our results are favorably impacted, while if demand for their products decreases, they may reduce their purchases of, or stop purchasing, our products and our operating results would suffer. even if we achieve a design win, our customers can delay or cancel the release of a new handset for any reason. most of our customers can cease incorporating our products into their devices with little notice to us and with little or no penalty. the loss of a large customer and failure to add new customers to replace lost revenue would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we face risks of a loss of revenue if contracts with the united states government or defense and aerospace contractors are canceled or delayed or if defense spending is reduced. we receive a portion of our revenue from the united states government and from prime contractors on united states government-sponsored programs, principally for defense and aerospace applications. these programs are subject to delays or cancellation. further, spending on defense and aerospace programs can vary significantly depending on funding from the united states government. we believe our government and defense and aerospace business has been negatively affected in the past by external factors such as sequestration and political pressure to reduce federal defense spending. reductions in defense and aerospace funding or the loss of a significant defense and aerospace program or contract would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. we depend heavily on third parties. we purchase numerous component parts, substrates and silicon-based products from external suppliers. we also utilize third-party suppliers for numerous services, including die processing, wafer bumping, test and tape and reel. the use of external suppliers involves a number of risks, including the possibility of material disruptions in the supply of key components and the lack of control over delivery schedules, capacity constraints, manufacturing yields, product quality and fabrication costs. although our key suppliers commit to us to be compliant with applicable iso 9001 and/or ts-16949 quality standards, we have experienced quality and reliability issues in the past with certain suppliers. quality or reliability issues in our supply chain could negatively affect our products, our reputation and our results of operations. we face risks related to sales through distributors. we sell a significant portion of our products through third party distributors. we depend on these distributors to help us create end customer demand, provide technical support and other value-added services to customers, fill customer orders, and stock our products. we may rely on one or more key distributors for a product, and a material change in our relationship with one or more of these distributors or their failure to perform as expected could reduce our revenue. our ability to add or replace distributors for some of our products may be limited because our end customers may be hesitant to accept the addition or replacement of a distributor due to advantages in the incumbent distributors' technical support and favorable business terms related to payments, discounts and stocking of acceptable inventory levels. using third parties for distribution exposes us to many risks, including competitive pressure, concentration, credit risk, and compliance risks. other third parties may use one of our distributors to sell products that compete with our products, and we may need to provide financial and other incentives to the distributors to focus them on the sale of our products. our distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivable and financial results. violations of the foreign corrupt practices act or similar laws by our distributors or other third-party intermediaries could have a material impact on our business. failure to manage risks related to our use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position. 13 table of contents we face risks associated with the operation of our manufacturing facilities. we operate wafer fabrication facilities in florida, north carolina, oregon and texas. we currently use several international and domestic assembly suppliers, as well as internal assembly facilities in china, costa rica, germany and the u.s., to assemble and test our products. we currently have our own test and tape and reel facilities located in china, costa rica and the u.s., and we also utilize contract suppliers and partners in asia to test our products. a number of factors related to our facilities will affect our business and financial results, including the following: our ability to adjust production capacity in a timely fashion in response to changes in demand for our products; the significant fixed costs of operating the facilities; factory utilization rates; our ability to qualify our facilities for new products and new technologies in a timely manner; the availability of raw materials, the impact of the volatility of commodity pricing and tariffs imposed on raw materials, including substrates, gold, platinum and high purity source materials such as gallium, aluminum, arsenic, indium, silicon, phosphorous and palladium; our manufacturing cycle times; our manufacturing yields; the political, regulatory and economic risks associated with our international manufacturing operations; potential violations by our i nternational employees or third-party agents of international or u.s. laws relevant to foreign operations; our ability to hire, train and manage qualified production personnel; our compliance with applicable environmental and other laws and regulations; and our ability to avoid prolonged periods of down-time in our facilities for any reason. business disruptions could harm our business, lead to a decline in revenues and increase our costs. our worldwide operations and business could be disrupted by natural disasters, industrial accidents, cybersecurity incidents, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, extreme weather conditions, public health issues, military actions, acts of terrorism, political or regulatory issues and other man-made disasters or catastrophic events. global climate change could result in certain natural disasters occurring more frequently or with greater intensity, such as drought, wildfires, storms and flooding. we carry commercial property damage and business interruption insurance against various risks, with limits we deem adequate, for reimbursement for damage to our fixed assets and resulting disruption of our operations. however, the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could harm our business and result in significant losses, a decline in revenue and an increase in our costs and expenses. any disruptions from these events could require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations and could also have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results to the extent that losses are uninsured or exceed insurance recoveries and to the extent that such disruptions adversely impact our relationships with our customers. furthermore, even if our own operations are unaffected or recover quickly, if our customers cannot timely resume their own operations due to a business disruption, natural disaster or catastrophic event, they may reduce or cancel their orders, which may adversely affect our results of operations. 14 table of contents if we experience poor manufacturing yields, our operating results may suffer. our products have unique designs and are fabricated using multiple semiconductor process technologies that are highly complex. in many cases, our products are assembled in customized packages. many of our products consist of multiple components in a single module and feature enhanced levels of integration and complexity. our customers insist that our products be designed to meet their exact specifications for quality, performance and reliability. our manufacturing yield is a combination of yields across the entire supply chain, including wafer fabrication, assembly and test yields. defects in a single component in an assembled module product can impact the yield for the entire module, which means the adverse economic impacts of an individual defect can be multiplied many times over if we fail to discover the defect before the module is assembled. due to the complexity of our products, we periodically experience difficulties in achieving acceptable yields and other quality issues, particularly with respect to new products. our customers test our products once they have been assembled into their products. the number of usable products that result from our production process can fluctuate as a result of many factors, including: design errors; defects in photomasks (which are used to print circuits on a wafer); minute impurities and variations in materials used; contamination of the manufacturing environment; equipment failure or variations in the manufacturing processes; losses from broken wafers or other human error; and defects in substrates and packaging. we constantly seek to improve our manufacturing yields. typically, for a given level of sales, when our yields improve, our gross margins improve, and when our yields decrease, our unit costs are higher, our margins are lower, and our operating results are adversely affected. costs of product defects and deviations from required specifications could include the following: writing off inventory; scrapping products that cannot be fixed; accepting returns of products that have been shipped; providing product replacements at no charge; reimbursement of direct and indirect costs incurred by our customers in recalling or reworking their products due to defects in our products; travel and personnel costs to investigate potential product quality issues and to identify or confirm the failure mechanism or root cause of product defects; and defending against litigation. these costs could be significant and could reduce our gross margins. our reputation with customers also could be damaged as a result of product defects and quality issues, and product demand could be reduced, which could harm our business and financial results. 15 table of contents we are subject to inventory risks and costs because we build our products based on forecasts provided by customers before receiving purchase orders for the products. in order to ensure availability of our products for some of our largest end customers, we start manufacturing certain products in advance of receiving purchase orders based on forecasts provided by these customers. however, these forecasts do not represent binding purchase commitments and we do not recognize sales for these products until they are shipped to or consumed by the customer. as a result, we incur significant inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales. because demand for our products may not materialize, or may be lower than expected, manufacturing based on forecasts subjects us to heightened risks of higher inventory carrying costs, increased obsolescence and higher operating costs. these inventory risks are exacerbated when our customers purchase indirectly through contract manufacturers or hold component inventory levels greater than their consumption rate because this reduces our visibility regarding the customers' accumulated levels of inventory. if product demand decreases or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to write-off inventory, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin and other operating results. we sell certain of our products based on reference designs of platform providers, and our inability to effectively manage or maintain our evolving relationships with these companies may have an adverse effect on our business. platform providers are typically large companies that provide system reference designs for oems and odms that include the platform provider's baseband and other complementary products. a platform provider may own or control ip that gives it a strong market position for its baseband products for certain air interface standards, which provides it with significant influence and control over sales of rf products for these standards. platform providers historically looked to us and our competitors to provide rf products to their customers as part of the overall system design, and we competed with other rf companies to have our products included in the platform provider's system reference design. this market dynamic has evolved in recent years as platform providers have worked to develop more fully integrated solutions that include their own rf technologies and components. platform providers may be in a different business from ours or we may be their customer or direct competitor. accordingly, we must balance our interest in obtaining new business with competitive and other factors. because platform providers control the overall system reference design, if they offer competitive rf technologies or their own rf solutions as a part of their reference design and exclude our products from the design, we are at a distinct competitive disadvantage with oems and odms that are seeking a turn-key design solution, even if our products offer superior performance. this requires us to work more closely with oems and odms to secure the design of our products in their handsets and other devices. our relationships with platform providers are complex and evolving, and the inability to effectively manage or maintain these relationships could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to risks from international sales and operations. we operate globally with sales offices and r&amp;d activities as well as manufacturing, assembly and test facilities in multiple countries, and some of our business activities are concentrated in asia. as a result, we are subject to regulatory, geopolitical and other risks associated with doing business outside the u.s., including: global and local economic, social and political conditions and uncertainty; currency controls and fluctuations; formal or informal imposition of export, import or doing-business regulations, including trade sanctions, tariffs and other related restrictions; labor market conditions and workers' rights affecting our manufacturing operations or those of our customers or suppliers; disruptions in capital and securities and commodities trading markets; 16 table of contents occurrences of geopolitical crises such as terrorist activity, armed conflict, civil or military unrest or political instability, which may disrupt manufacturing, assembly, logistics, security and communications and result in reduced demand for our products; compliance with laws and regulations that differ among jurisdictions, including those covering taxes, intellectual property ownership and infringement, imports and exports, anti-corruption and anti-bribery, antitrust and competition, data privacy, and environment, health, and safety; and pandemics and similar major health concerns, which could adversely affect our business and our customer order patterns. sales to customers located outside the u.s. accounted for approximately 84% of our revenue in fiscal 2019 , of which approximately 57% and 18% were attributable to sales to customers located in china and taiwan, respectively. we expect that revenue from international sales to china and other markets will continue to be a significant part of our total revenue. any weakness in the chinese economy could result in a decrease in demand for consumer products that contain our products, which could materially and adversely affect our business. the imposition by the u.s. of tariffs on goods imported from china, countermeasures imposed by china in response, u.s. export restrictions on sales of products to china and other government actions that restrict or otherwise adversely affect our ability to sell our products to chinese customers, could increase our manufacturing costs and reduce our product sales in china and other markets. as a global company, our results are affected by movements in currency exchange rates. our exposure may increase or decrease over time as our foreign business levels fluctuate in the countries where we have operations, and these changes could have a material impact on our financial results. the functional currency for most of our international operations is the u.s. dollar. we have foreign operations in asia, europe and costa rica, and a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from sales to customers outside the u.s. our international revenue is primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. operating expenses and certain working capital items related to our foreign-based operations are, in some instances, denominated in the local foreign currencies and therefore are affected by changes in the u.s. dollar exchange rate in relation to foreign currencies, such as the costa rican colon, euro, pound sterling, renminbi and singapore dollar. if the u.s. dollar weakens compared to these and other currencies, our operating expenses for foreign operations will be higher when remeasured back into u.s. dollars. economic regulation in china could adversely impact our business and results of operations. we have a significant portion of our assembly and testing capacity in china. for many years, the chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid growth and wide fluctuations in the rate of inflation. in response to these factors, the chinese government has, from time to time, adopted measures to regulate growth and to contain inflation, including currency controls and measures designed to restrict credit, control prices or set currency exchange rates. such actions in the future, as well as other changes in chinese laws and regulations, including actions in furtherance of china's stated policy of reducing its dependence on foreign semiconductor manufacturers, could increase the cost of doing business in china, foster the emergence of chinese-based competitors, decrease the demand for our products in china, or reduce the supply of critical materials for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. changes in government trade policies, including the imposition of tariffs and export restrictions, could limit our ability to sell our products to certain customers, which may materially adversely affect our sales and results of operations. the u.s. or foreign governments may take administrative, legislative or regulatory action that could materially interfere with our ability to sell products in certain countries, particularly in china. for example, between july 2018 and may 2019, the office of the united states trade representative imposed 25% tariffs on specified product lists, including certain electronic components and equipment, totaling approximately $250 billion in chinese imports. in response, china imposed or proposed new or higher tariffs on u.s. products. the u.s. government has also threatened to impose tariffs on an additional $325 billion of chinese imports, and china has threatened additional retaliatory actions. while the imposition of these tariffs did not have a direct, material adverse impact on our business during fiscal year 2019, the direct and indirect effects of tariffs and other restrictive trade policies are difficult to measure and are only one part of a larger u.s./china economic and trade policy disagreement. for example, imposition of tariffs on our customers' products that are imported from china to the u.s. could harm sales 17 table of contents of such products, which would harm our business. we cannot predict what actions may ultimately be taken with respect to tariffs or trade relations between the u.s. and china or other countries, what products may be subject to such actions, or what actions may be taken by the other countries in retaliation. furthermore, we have experienced restrictions on our ability to sell products to certain foreign customers where sales of products require export licenses or are prohibited by government action. the u.s. government has in the past issued export restrictions that effectively banned american companies from selling products to zte, one of our customers, and in may 2019 imposed a similar ban on sales of all products to huawei, which accounted for 13% of our total revenue during fiscal 2019. as of the date of this report, we are unable to predict the scope and duration of the export restrictions imposed on huawei and the corresponding future effects on our business. even if such restrictions are lifted, any financial or other penalties or continuing export restrictions imposed on huawei could have a continuing negative impact on our future revenue and results of operations. in addition, huawei or other foreign customers affected by future u.s. government sanctions or threats of sanctions may respond by developing their own solutions to replace our products or by adopting our foreign competitors' solutions. moreover, u.s. government actions targeting exports of certain technologies to china are becoming more pervasive. for example, in 2018, the u.s. adopted new laws designed to address concerns about the export of emerging and foundational technologies to china. in addition, in may 2019, president trump issued an executive order that invoked national emergency economic powers to implement a framework to regulate the acquisition or transfer of information communications technology in transactions that imposed undue national security risks. these actions could lead to additional restrictions on the export of products that include or enable certain technologies, including products we provide to china-based customers. the loss or temporary loss of huawei or other foreign customers or the imposition of restrictions on our ability to sell products to such customers as a result of tariffs, export restrictions or other u.s. regulatory actions could materially adversely affect our sales, business and results of operations. we operate in a very competitive industry and must continue to implement innovative technologies. we compete with several companies primarily engaged in the business of designing, manufacturing and selling rf solutions, as well as suppliers of discrete integrated circuits and modules. in addition to our direct competitors, some of our largest end customers and leading platform partners also compete with us to some extent by designing and manufacturing their own products. increased competition from any source could adversely affect our operating results through lower prices for our products, reduced demand for our products, losses of existing design slots with key customers and a corresponding reduction in our ability to recover development, engineering and manufacturing costs. many of our existing and potential competitors have entrenched market positions, historical affiliations with oems, considerable internal manufacturing capacity, established ip rights and substantial technological capabilities. the semiconductor industry has experienced increased industry consolidation over the last several years, a trend we expect to continue. many of our existing and potential competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing or marketing resources than we do. we cannot be sure that we will be able to compete successfully with our competitors. industry overcapacity could cause us to underutilize our manufacturing facilities and have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. it is difficult to predict future demand for our products, which makes it difficult to estimate future requirements for production capacity and avoid periods of overcapacity. fluctuations in the growth rate of industry capacity relative to the growth rate in demand for our products also can lead to overcapacity and contribute to cyclicality in the semiconductor market. capacity expansion projects have long lead times and require capital commitments based on forecasted product trends and demand well in advance of production orders from customers. in recent years, we have made significant capital investments to expand our premium filter capacity to address forecasted future demand patterns. in certain cases, these capacity additions exceeded the near-term demand requirements, leading to overcapacity situations and underutilization of our manufacturing facilities. 18 table of contents as many of our manufacturing costs are fixed, these costs cannot be reduced in proportion to the reduced revenues experienced during periods of underutilization. underutilization of our manufacturing facilities can adversely affect our gross margin and other operating results. if demand for our products experiences a prolonged decrease, we may be required to close or idle facilities and write down our long-lived assets or shorten the useful lives of underutilized assets and accelerate depreciation, which would increase our expenses. for example, to address manufacturing overcapacity, in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 we commenced a phased closure of a saw filter manufacturing facility in florida and a transfer of production to our north carolina facility, which we expect will be completed by the end of fiscal 2020. also, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, we announced the temporary idling of a baw manufacturing facility in texas. these actions resulted in impairment charges, accelerated depreciation and other restructuring-related costs and expenses. we may not be able to borrow funds under our credit facility or secure future financing. on december 5, 2017, we entered into a five-year unsecured senior credit facility pursuant to a credit agreement with bank of america, n.a., as administrative agent, swing line lender and l/c issuer, and a syndicate of lenders (as amended, the "credit agreement"). the credit agreement includes a $300.0 million revolving credit facility, which is available for working capital, capital expenditures and other corporate purposes. this facility contains various conditions, covenants and representations with which we must be in compliance in order to borrow funds. we cannot assure that we will be in compliance with these conditions, covenants and representations in the future when we may need to borrow funds under this facility. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our debt, including our notes, or to fund capital expenditures and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our debt obligations and financing requirements, which may not be successful or on terms favorable to us. the credit agreement also includes a $400.0 million senior delayed draw term loan (the "term loan"), of which $100.0 million was funded at closing and then subsequently repaid during march 2018. at our discretion, we may draw down the remaining balance in up to two advances prior to june 30, 2019. additionally, we may request that the term loan or the revolving credit facility be increased by an amount not to exceed $300.0 million. in november 2015, we issued $450.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6.75% senior notes due 2023 (the "2023 notes") and $550.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7.00% senior notes due 2025 (the "2025 notes") pursuant to an indenture dated as of november 19, 2015 (the "2015 indenture"). during fiscal 2019, we completed the repurchase of all of the 2023 notes and all but $23.4 million of the 2025 notes. additionally, in fiscal 2019, we issued $900.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.50% senior notes due 2026 (the "2026 notes" and together with the 2025 notes, the notes ) pursuant to an indenture dated as of july 16, 2018 (as supplemented, the 2018 indenture and together with the 2015 indenture, the indentures ). our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations, including the term loan and the notes, and to fund working capital, planned capital expenditures and expansion efforts and any strategic alliances or acquisitions we may make in the future depends on our ability to generate cash in the future and on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. we cannot be sure that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay our debt, including the term loan and the notes. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may face liquidity issues and be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our debt. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service and other obligations. additionally, the credit agreement and the indentures limit the use of the proceeds from any disposition; as a result, we may not be allowed under these documents to use proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy our debt service obligations. further, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 19 table of contents the agreements and instruments governing our debt impose restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility. the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility and the term loan and the indentures governing the notes contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to: incur additional debt; pay dividends, make other distributions or repurchase or redeem our capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; make loans and investments; sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of assets; incur or permit to exist certain liens; enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; and consolidate, amalgamate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. these covenants could have the effect of limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the markets in which we compete. in addition, the credit agreement requires us to comply with certain financial maintenance covenants. operating results below current levels or other adverse factors, including a significant increase in interest rates, could result in our being unable to comply with the financial covenants contained in our revolving credit facility. if we violate covenants under the credit agreement and are unable to obtain a waiver from our lenders, our debt under our revolving credit facility would be in default and could be accelerated by our lenders. because of cross-default provisions in the agreements and instruments governing our debt, a default under one agreement or instrument could result in a default under, and the acceleration of, our other debt. if our debt is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, or terms that are acceptable to us. if our debt is in default for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, complying with these covenants may also cause us to take actions that are not favorable to holders of the notes and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions. the price of our common stock has recently been and may in the future be volatile. the price of our common stock, which is traded on the nasdaq global select market, has been and may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. in addition, the trading volume of our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. some of the factors that could cause fluctuations in the stock price or trading volume of our common stock include: general market and economic and political conditions, including market conditions in the semiconductor industry; actual or expected variations in quarterly operating results; differences between actual operating results and those expected by investors and analysts; changes in recommendations by securities analysts; operations and stock performance of competitors and major customers; accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment of goodwill and restructuring; 20 table of contents significant acquisitions, strategic alliances, capital commitments, or new products announced by us or by our competitors; sales of our common stock, including sales by our directors and officers or significant investors; repurchases of our common stock; recruitment or departure of key personnel; and loss of key customers. we cannot assure that the price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. in addition, the stock market in general can experience considerable price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to our performance. damage to our reputation or brand could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. our reputation is a critical factor in our relationships with customers, employees, governments, suppliers and other stakeholders. if we fail to address issues that give rise to reputational risk, including those described throughout this risk factors section, we could significantly harm our reputation and our brand. our reputation may also be damaged by how we respond to corporate crises. corporate crises can arise from catastrophic events as well as from incidents involving product quality, security, or safety issues; allegations of unethical behavior or misconduct or legal noncompliance; internal control failures; corporate governance issues; data or privacy breaches; workplace safety incidents; environmental incidents; the use of our products for illegal or objectionable applications; media statements; the conduct of our suppliers or representatives; and other issues or incidents that, whether actual or perceived, result in adverse publicity. if we fail to respond quickly and effectively to address such crises, the ensuing negative public reaction could significantly harm our reputation and our brands and could lead to litigation or subject us to regulatory actions or restrictions. damage to our reputation could harm customer relations, reduce demand for our products, reduce investor confidence in us, adversely affect our stock price, and may also limit our ability to be seen as an employer of choice when competing for highly skilled employees. moreover, repairing our reputation and brands may be difficult, time-consuming and expensive. we may have fluctuations in the amount and frequency of our stock repurchases. we are not obligated to make repurchases under our stock repurchase program, and the amount and timing of our stock repurchases may fluctuate based on a number of factors, including our priorities for the use of our cash for other purposes, such as capital spending and acquisitions, restrictions under securities laws and the agreements and instruments governing our debt and because of changes in our cash flows, tax laws and the market price of our common stock. our acquisitions and other strategic investments, including our recent acquisition of active-semi, could fail to achieve our financial or strategic objectives, disrupt our ongoing business, and adversely impact our results of operations. as part of our business strategy and as demonstrated in our recent acquisition of active-semi, we expect to continue to review potential acquisitions and strategic investments that could complement our current product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technical capabilities, or that may otherwise offer growth or margin improvement opportunities. in the event of future acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies, we could issue equity securities that would dilute our current stockholders' ownership, incur substantial debt or other financial obligations or assume contingent liabilities. such actions could harm our results of operations or the price of our common stock. acquisitions and strategic investments also entail numerous other risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including: failure to complete a transaction in a timely manner, if at all, due to our inability to obtain required government or other approvals, ip disputes or other litigation, difficulty in obtaining financing on terms acceptable to us, or other unforeseen factors; 21 table of contents controls, processes, and procedures of an acquired business may not adequately ensure compliance with laws and regulations, and we may fail to identify compliance issues or liabilities; unanticipated costs, capital expenditures or working capital requirements; acquisition-related charges and amortization of acquired technology and other intangibles; the potential loss of key employees from a company we acquire or in which we invest; diversion of management's attention from our business; disruption of our ongoing operations; dissynergies or other harm to existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; losses or impairment of investments from unsuccessful research and development by companies in which we invest; failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses, operations, products, technologies and personnel; and unrealized expected synergies. moreover, our resources are limited and our decision to pursue a transaction has opportunity costs; accordingly, if we pursue a particular transaction, we may need to forgo the prospect of entering into other transactions that could help us achieve our financial or strategic objectives. any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows, particularly in the case of a large acquisition. in order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate key employees, and our failure to do so could harm our business and our results of operations. in order to compete effectively, we must: hire and retain qualified employees; continue to develop leaders for key business units and functions; expand our presence in international locations and adapt to cultural norms of foreign locations; and train and motivate our employee base. our future operating results and success depend on keeping key technical personnel and management and expanding our sales and marketing, r&amp;d and administrative support. we do not have employment agreements with the vast majority of our employees. we must also continue to attract qualified personnel. the competition for qualified personnel is intense, and the number of people with experience, particularly in rf engineering, integrated circuit and filter design, and technical marketing and support, is limited. in addition, existing or new immigration laws, policies or regulations in the u.s. may limit the pool of available talent. travel bans, difficulties obtaining visas and other restrictions on international travel could make it more difficult to effectively manage our international operations, operate as a global company or service our international customer base. changes in the interpretation and application of employment-related laws to our workforce practices may also result in increased operating costs and less flexibility in how we meet our changing workforce needs. we cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain skilled personnel in the future, which could harm our business and our results of operations. we rely on our intellectual property portfolio and may not be able to successfully protect against the use of our intellectual property by third parties. we rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. we cannot be certain that patents will be issued from any of 22 table of contents our pending applications or that patents will be issued in all countries where our products can be sold. further, we cannot be certain that any claims allowed from pending applications will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection against our competitors. our competitors may also be able to design around our patents. the laws of some countries in which our products are developed, manufactured or sold may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as u.s. laws. this increases the possibility of misappropriation or infringement of our technology and products. although we intend to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology. additionally, our competitors may be able to independently develop non-infringing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. we may need to engage in legal actions to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights. generally, intellectual property litigation is both expensive and unpredictable. our involvement in intellectual property litigation could divert the attention of our management and technical personnel and have a material, adverse effect on our business. we may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. our operating results may be adversely affected if third parties were to assert claims that our products infringed their patent, copyright or other intellectual property rights. such assertions could lead to expensive and unpredictable litigation, diverting the attention of management and technical personnel. an unsuccessful result in any such litigation could have adverse effects on our business, which may include injunctions, exclusion orders and royalty payments to third parties. in addition, if one of our customers or another supplier to one of our customers were found to be infringing on third-party intellectual property rights, such finding could adversely affect the demand for our products. security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our proprietary information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. we rely on trade secrets, technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information relating to our product development and manufacturing activities to provide us with competitive advantages. we protect this information by entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, strategic partners and other third parties. we also design our computer networks and implement various procedures to restrict unauthorized access to dissemination of our proprietary information. we face internal and external data security threats. current, departing or former employees or third parties could attempt to improperly use or access our computer systems and networks to copy, obtain or misappropriate our proprietary information or otherwise interrupt our business. like others, we are also subject to significant system or network disruptions from numerous causes, including computer viruses and other cyber-attacks, facility access issues, new system implementations and energy blackouts. security breaches, computer malware, phishing, spoofing, and other cyber-attacks have become more prevalent and sophisticated in recent years. while we defend against these threats on a daily basis, we do not believe that such attacks to date have caused us any material damage. because the techniques used by computer hackers and others to access or sabotage networks constantly evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate, counter or ameliorate all of these techniques. as a result, our and our customers' proprietary information may be misappropriated and the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted. any loss of such information could harm our competitive position, result in a loss of customer confidence in the adequacy of our threat mitigation and detection processes and procedures, cause us to incur significant costs to remedy the damages caused by the incident, and divert management and other resources. we routinely implement improvements to our network security safeguards and we are devoting increasing resources to the security of our information technology systems. we cannot, however, assure that such system improvements will be sufficient to prevent or limit the damage from any future cyber-attack or network disruptions. the costs related to cyber-attacks or other security threats or computer systems disruptions typically would not be fully insured or indemnified by others. occurrence of any of the events described above could result in loss of competitive advantages derived from our r&amp;d efforts or our ip. moreover, these events may result in the early obsolescence of our products, product development delays, or diversion of the attention of management and key 23 table of contents information technology and other resources, or otherwise adversely affect our internal operations and reputation or degrade our financial results and stock price. we may be subject to theft, loss, or misuse of personal data by or about our employees, customers or other third parties, which could increase our expenses, damage our reputation, or result in legal or regulatory proceedings. in the ordinary course of our business, we have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information regarding our employees and others that is subject to privacy and security laws and regulations. the theft, loss, or misuse of personal data collected, used, stored, or transferred by us to run our business, or by our third party service providers, including business process software applications providers and other vendors that have access to sensitive data, could result in damage to our reputation, disruption of our business activities, significantly increased business and security costs or costs related to defending legal claims. global privacy legislation, enforcement, and policy activity in this area are rapidly expanding and creating a complex regulatory compliance environment. for example, the european union has adopted the general data protection regulation ("gdpr"), which requires companies to comply with rules regarding the handling of personal data, including its use, protection and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete such data about themselves. failure to meet gdpr requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. in addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the u.s., europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and fluid, and may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. complying with these changing laws has caused, and could continue to cause, us to incur substantial costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. further, failure to comply with existing or new rules may result in significant penalties or orders to stop the alleged non-compliant activity. finally, even our inadvertent failure to comply with federal, state, or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in audits, regulatory inquiries or proceedings against us by governmental entities or others. we are subject to warranty claims, product recalls and product liability. from time to time, we may be subject to warranty or product liability claims that could lead to significant expense. we may also be exposed to such claims as a result of any acquisition we may undertake in the future. although we maintain reserves for reasonably estimable liabilities and purchase product liability insurance, we may elect to self-insure with respect to certain matters and our reserves may be inadequate to cover the uninsured portion of such claims. product liability insurance is subject to significant deductibles, and such insurance may be unavailable or inadequate to protect against all claims. if one of our customers recalls a product containing one of our devices, we may incur significant costs and expenses, including replacement costs, direct and indirect product recall-related costs, diversion of technical and other resources and reputational harm. our customer contracts typically contain warranty and indemnification provisions, and in certain cases may also contain liquidated damages provisions, relating to product quality issues. the potential liabilities associated with such provisions are significant, and in some cases, including in agreements with some of our largest end customers, are potentially unlimited. any such liabilities may greatly exceed any revenue we receive from sale of the relevant products. costs, payments or damages incurred or paid by us in connection with warranty and product liability claims and product recalls could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to risks associated with environmental, health and safety regulations and climate change. we are subject to a broad array of u.s. and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations include those related to the use, transportation, storage, handling, emission, discharge and recycling or disposal of hazardous materials used in our manufacturing, assembly and testing processes. our failure to comply with any of these existing or future laws or regulations could result in: regulatory penalties and fines; legal liabilities, including financial responsibility for remedial measures if our properties are contaminated; expenses to secure required permits and governmental approvals; 24 table of contents reputational damage; suspension or curtailment of our manufacturing, assembly and test processes; and increased costs to acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment or to modify our equipment, facilities or manufacturing processes to bring them into compliance with applicable laws and regulations. existing and future environmental laws and regulations could also impact our product designs and limit or restrict the materials or components that are included in our products. in addition, many of our largest end customers require us to comply with corporate social responsibility policies, which often include employment, health, safety, environmental and other requirements that exceed applicable legal requirements. compliance with these policies increases our operating expenses, and non-compliance can adversely affect customer relationships and harm our business. new climate change laws and regulations could require us to change our manufacturing processes or procure substitute raw materials that may cost more or be more difficult to procure. in addition, new restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases could result in increased costs for us and our suppliers. various jurisdictions are developing other climate change-based regulations that also may increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results. we expect increased worldwide regulatory activity relating to climate change in the future. future compliance with these laws and regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations. compliance with regulations regarding the use of conflict minerals could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. regulations in the u.s. currently require that we determine whether certain materials used in our products, referred to as conflict minerals, originated in the democratic republic of the congo or adjoining countries, or were from recycled or scrap sources. we may face challenges with government regulators and our customers and suppliers if we are unable to sufficiently make any required determination that the metals used in our products are conflict free. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the general corporation law of the state of delaware may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying, deterring, preventing or rendering more difficult a change in control of qorvo that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. these provisions include: granting to the board of directors sole power to set the number of directors and fill any vacancy on the board of directors, whether such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise; the ability of the board of directors to designate and issue one or more series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, the terms of which may be determined at the sole discretion of the board of directors; the inability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; establishment of advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to the board of directors at stockholder meetings; and the inability of stockholders to act by written consent. in addition, the general corporation law of the state of delaware contains provisions that regulate business combinations between corporations and interested stockholders who own 15% or more of the corporation's voting stock, except under certain circumstances. these provisions could also discourage potential acquisition proposals and delay or prevent a change in control. these provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit of any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context, and may also make it more difficult for a third party to 25 table of contents replace directors on our board of directors. further, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. our operating results could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies. the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see "critical accounting policies and estimates" in part ii, item 7 of this report). such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments that could significantly affect our results of operations. decisions we make about the scope of our future operations could affect our future financial results. from time to time, changes in the business environment have led us to change the scope of our operations or business, which has resulted in restructuring and asset impairment charges, and this could occur in the future. the amount and timing of such charges can be difficult to predict. factors that contribute to the amount and timing of such charges include: the timing and execution of plans and programs that are subject to local labor law requirements, including consultation with appropriate work councils; changes in assumptions related to severance and post-retirement costs; the timing of future divestitures and the amount and type of proceeds realized from such divestitures; and changes in the fair value of certain long-lived assets and goodwill. changes in our effective tax rate may adversely impact our results of operations. we are subject to taxation in china, germany, singapore, the u.s. and numerous other foreign taxing jurisdictions. our effective tax rate is subject to fluctuations as it is impacted by a number of factors, including the following: changes in our overall profitability and the amount of profit determined to be earned and taxed in jurisdictions with differing statutory tax rates; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, including those described in note 12 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements set forth in part ii, item 8 of this report; changes in the valuation of either our gross deferred tax assets or gross deferred tax liabilities; adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; changes in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; changes in available tax credits; changes in tax laws, domestic and foreign, or the interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and a future decision to repatriate non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided country withholding taxes incurred upon repatriation. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods. 26 table of contents changes in the favorable tax status of our subsidiaries in singapore and costa rica would have an adverse impact on our operating results. our subsidiaries in singapore and costa rica have been granted tax holidays that effectively minimize our tax expense and that are expected to be effective through december 2021 and march 2024, respectively. in their efforts to deal with budget deficits, governments around the world are focusing on increasing tax revenues through increased audits and, potentially, increased tax rates for corporations. as part of this effort, governments continue to review their policies on granting tax holidays. in february 2017, singapore enacted legislation that will exclude from our existing development and expansion incentive grant the benefit of the reduced tax rate for intellectual property income earned after june 30, 2021. future changes in the status of either tax holiday could have a negative effect on our net income in future years. the enactment of international or domestic tax legislation, or changes in regulatory guidance, may adversely impact our results of operations. corporate tax reform, base-erosion efforts, and increased tax transparency continue to be high priorities in many tax jurisdictions in which we have business operations. in 2017, the u.s. enacted comprehensive tax legislation, commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ), which included a number of changes to u.s. tax laws that impacted us, including the one-time transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries (the transitional repatriation tax ) and the global intangible low-taxed income ( gilti ) provisions. in addition, other countries are beginning to implement legislation and other guidance to align their international tax rules with the organisation for economic co-operation and development's base erosion and profit shifting recommendations and action plan, which aim to standardize and modernize global corporate tax policy, including changes to cross-border tax, transfer pricing documentations rules, and nexus-based tax incentive practices. legislative changes, interpretations and guidance, and changes in prior tax rulings and decisions by tax authorities regarding treatments and positions of corporate income taxes resulting from these initiatives, could increase our effective tax rate and result in taxes we previously paid being subject to change, which may adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. financial risk management we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and certain commodity prices. the overall objective of our financial risk management program is to seek a reduction in the potential negative earnings effects from changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity price risk, and commodity prices arising from our business activities. we manage these financial exposures through operational means and by using various financial instruments, when deemed appropriate. these practices may change as economic conditions change. interest rates the interest rates under our credit agreement are variable; however, since we have no outstanding balances under the credit agreement, there is no interest rate risk related to this facility as of march 30, 2019 . currency exchange rates as a global company, our results are affected by movements in currency exchange rates. our exposure may increase or decrease over time as our foreign business levels fluctuate in the countries where we have operations, and these changes could have a material impact on our financial results. the functional currency for most of our international operations is the u.s. dollar. we have foreign operations in asia, costa rica and europe, and a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from sales to customers outside the u.s. our international revenue is primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. operating expenses and certain working capital items related to our foreign-based operations are, in some instances, denominated in the local foreign currencies and therefore are affected by changes in the u.s. dollar exchange rate in relation to foreign currencies, such as the costa rican colon, euro, pound sterling, renminbi and singapore dollar. if the u.s. dollar weakens compared to these and other currencies, our operating expenses for foreign operations will be higher when remeasured back into u.s. dollars. we seek to manage our foreign exchange risk in part through operational means. for fiscal 2019 , we incurred a foreign currency loss of $2.1 million as compared to a loss of $2.8 million in fiscal 2018 , which is recorded in other expense. our financial instrument holdings, including foreign receivables, cash and payables at march 30, 2019 , were analyzed to determine their sensitivity to foreign exchange rate changes. in this sensitivity analysis, we assumed that the change in one currency's rate relative to the u.s. dollar would not have an effect on other currencies' rates relative to the u.s. dollar. all other factors were held constant. if the u.s. dollar declined in value 10% in relation to the re-measured foreign currency instruments, our net income would have decreased by approximately $1.4 million . if the u.s. dollar increased in value 10% in relation to the re-measured foreign currency instruments, our net income would have increased by approximately $1.1 million . 43 table of contents equity price risk our marketable equity investments in publicly traded companies are subject to market price risk. accordingly, a fluctuation in the price of each equity security could have an adverse impact on the fair value of our investment. as of march 30, 2019, our equity investments were immaterial (see note 3 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements set forth in part ii, item 8 of this report). commodity prices we routinely use precious metals in the manufacture of our products. supplies for such commodities may from time to time become restricted, or general market factors and conditions may affect the pricing of such commodities. we also have an active reclamation process to capture any unused gold. while we attempt to mitigate the risk of increases in commodities-related costs, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully safeguard against potential short-term and long-term commodity price fluctuations. 44 table of contentsrisk factors. 12 risk factors. you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other information contained in this report before making an investment decision with respect to any of our securities. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially impacted by any of these risks. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks not currently known to us, or other factors not perceived by us to present significant risks to our business at this time, may impair our business operations, financial condition, or results of operations. our operating results fluctuate. our revenue, earnings, margins and other operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. if demand for our products fluctuates as a result of economic conditions or for other reasons, our revenue and profitability could be impacted. our future operating results will depend on many factors, including the following: business, political and macroeconomic changes, including trade disputes and recession or slowing growth in the semiconductor industry and the overall global economy; changes in consumer confidence caused by many factors, including changes in interest rates, credit markets, expectations for inflation, unemployment levels, and energy or other commodity prices; fluctuations in demand for our customers' products; our ability to forecast our customers' demand for our products accurately; the ability of third-party foundries and other third-party suppliers to manufacture, assemble and test our products in a timely and cost-effective manner; our customers' and distributors' ability to manage the inventory that they hold and to forecast accurately their demand for our products; our ability to achieve cost savings and improve yields and margins on our new and existing products; our ability to successfully integrate into our business, and realize the expected benefits of, our recent and any future acquisitions and strategic investments; and our ability to utilize our capacity efficiently or to acquire additional capacity in response to customer demand. it is likely that our future operating results could be adversely affected by one or more of the factors set forth above or other similar factors. if our future operating results are below the expectations of stock market analysts or our investors, our stock price may decline. our operating results are substantially dependent on development of new products and achieving design wins as our industry's product life cycles are short and our customers' requirements change rapidly. our largest markets are characterized by short product life cycles and the frequent introduction of new products in response to evolving product requirements, driven by end user demand for more functionality, improved performance, lower costs and a variety of form factors. our largest mp customers typically refresh some or all of their product portfolios by releasing new models each year. in some cases, product designs we pursue represent either opportunities to substantially increase our revenue by winning a new design or a risk of a substantial revenue loss by losing an incumbent product in a customer's device. our success is dependent on our ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely and cost-effective manner and secure production orders from our customers. the development of new products is a highly complex process, and we have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products at times in the past. our successful product development depends on a number of factors, including the following: 12 table of contents our ability to predict market requirements and define and design new products that address those requirements; our ability to design products that meet our customers' cost, size and performance requirements; our ability to introduce new products that are competitive and can be manufactured at lower costs or that command higher prices based on superior performance; acceptance of our new product designs; the availability of qualified product design engineers; our timely completion of product designs and ramp up of new products according to our customers' needs with acceptable manufacturing yields; and market acceptance of our customers' products and the duration of the life cycle of such products. we may not be able to design and introduce new products in a timely or cost-efficient manner, and our new products may fail to meet market or customer requirements. most major product design opportunities that we pursue involve multiple competitors, and we could lose a new product design opportunity to a competitor that offers a lower cost or equal or superior performing product. if we are unsuccessful in achieving design wins, our revenue and operating results will be adversely affected. even when a design win is achieved, our success is not assured. design wins may require significant expenditures by us and typically precede volume revenue by six to nine months or more. many customers seek a second source for all major components in their devices, which can significantly reduce the revenue obtained from a design win. in many cases, the average selling prices of our products decline over the products' lives, and we must achieve yield improvements, cost reductions and other productivity enhancements in order to maintain profitability. the actual value of a design win to us will ultimately depend on the commercial success of our customers' products. we depend on a few large customers for a substantial portion of our revenue. a substantial portion of our mp revenue comes from large purchases by a small number of customers. our future operating results depend on both the success of our largest customers and on our success in diversifying our products and customer base. collectively, our two largest end customers accounted for an aggregate of approximately 43% , 47% and 44% of our revenue for fiscal years 2020 , 2019 and 2018 , respectively. the concentration of our revenue with a relatively small number of customers makes us particularly dependent on factors, both positive and negative, affecting those customers. if demand for their products increases, our results are favorably impacted, while if demand for their products decreases, they may reduce their purchases of, or stop purchasing, our products and our operating results would suffer. even if we achieve a design win, our customers can delay or cancel the release of a new handset for any reason. most of our customers can cease incorporating our products into their devices with little notice to us and with little or no penalty. the loss of a large customer and failure to add new customers to replace lost revenue would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we face risks of a loss of revenue if contracts with the united states government or defense and aerospace contractors are canceled or delayed or if defense spending is reduced. we receive a portion of our revenue from the united states government and from prime contractors on united states government-sponsored programs, principally for defense and aerospace applications. these programs are subject to delays or cancellation. further, spending on defense and aerospace programs can vary significantly depending on funding from the united states government. we believe our government and defense and aerospace business has been negatively affected in the past by external factors such as sequestration and political pressure to reduce federal defense spending. reductions in defense and aerospace funding or the loss of a significant defense and aerospace program or contract would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 13 table of contents the covid-19 outbreak could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. covid-19 has spread globally and has resulted in authorities implementing numerous measures to try to contain the virus, such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter in place orders, and shutdowns. these measures have impacted and may further impact our workforce and operations, the operations of our customers, and those of our respective vendors and suppliers. we have significant manufacturing operations in the u.s. and china and both of these countries have been affected by the outbreak and have taken measures to try to contain it. there is considerable uncertainty regarding such measures and potential future measures, and restrictions on our access to our manufacturing facilities or on our support operations or workforce, or similar limitations for our vendors and suppliers, and restrictions or disruptions of transportation, such as reduced availability of air transport, port closures, and increased border controls or closures, could limit our capacity to meet customer demand and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. the outbreak has significantly increased economic and demand uncertainty. the outbreak and continued spread of covid-19 will cause an economic slowdown, and it is possible that the global economy worsens further. the spread of covid-19 has caused us to modify our business practices (including employee travel, employee work locations, and cancellation of events and conferences), and we may take further actions as may be required by government authorities or that we determine are in the best interests of our employees, customers, partners, and suppliers. there is no certainty that such measures will be sufficient to mitigate the risks posed by the virus, and our ability to perform critical functions could be harmed. the degree to which covid-19 impacts our results will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including, but not limited to, the duration and spread of the outbreak, its severity, the actions to contain the virus or treat its impact, and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume. we depend heavily on third parties. we purchase numerous component parts, substrates and silicon-based products from external suppliers. we also utilize third-party suppliers for numerous services, including die processing, wafer bumping, test and tape and reel. the use of external suppliers involves a number of risks, including the possibility of material disruptions in the supply of key components and the lack of control over delivery schedules, capacity constraints, manufacturing yields, product quality and fabrication costs. furthermore, the covid-19 outbreak has created heightened risk that external suppliers may be unable to perform their obligations to us or suffer financial distress due to the economic impact of the outbreak and the regulatory measures that have been enacted by governments to contain the virus. although our key suppliers commit to us to be compliant with applicable iso 9001 and/or ts-16949 quality standards, we have experienced quality and reliability issues with suppliers in the past. quality or reliability issues in our supply chain could negatively affect our products, our reputation and our results of operations. we face risks related to sales through distributors. we sell a significant portion of our products through third-party distributors. we depend on these distributors to help us create end customer demand, provide technical support and other value-added services to customers, fill customer orders, and stock our products. we may rely on one or more key distributors for a product, and a material change in our relationship with one or more of these distributors or their failure to perform as expected could reduce our revenue. our ability to add or replace distributors for some of our products may be limited because our end customers may be hesitant to accept the addition or replacement of a distributor due to advantages in the incumbent distributors' technical support and favorable business terms related to payments, discounts and stocking of acceptable inventory levels. using third parties for distribution exposes us to many risks, including competitive pressure, concentration, credit risk, and compliance risks. other third parties may use one of our distributors to sell products that compete with our products, and we may need to provide financial and other incentives to the distributors to focus them on the sale of our products. our distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivable and financial results. violations of the foreign corrupt practices act or similar laws by our distributors or other third-party intermediaries could have a material impact on our business. failure to manage risks related to our use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position. 14 table of contents we face risks associated with the operation of our manufacturing facilities. we operate wafer fabrication facilities in north carolina, oregon and texas. we currently use several international and domestic assembly suppliers, as well as internal assembly facilities in china, costa rica, germany and the u.s., to assemble and test our products. we currently have our own test and tape and reel facilities located in china, costa rica and the u.s., and we also utilize contract suppliers and partners in asia to test our products. a number of factors related to our facilities will affect our business and financial results, including the following: our ability to adjust production capacity in a timely fashion in response to changes in demand for our products; the significant fixed costs of operating the facilities; factory utilization rates; our ability to qualify our facilities for new products and new technologies in a timely manner; the availability of raw materials, the impact of the volatility of commodity pricing and tariffs imposed on raw materials, including substrates, gold, platinum and high purity source materials such as gallium, aluminum, arsenic, indium, silicon, phosphorous and palladium; our manufacturing cycle times; our manufacturing yields; the political, regulatory and economic risks associated with our international manufacturing operations; potential violations by our i nternational employees or third-party agents of international or u.s. laws relevant to foreign operations; our ability to hire, train and manage qualified production personnel; our compliance with applicable environmental and other laws and regulations; and our ability to avoid prolonged periods of down-time in our facilities for any reason. business disruptions could harm our business, lead to a decline in revenues and increase our costs. our worldwide operations and business could be disrupted by natural disasters, industrial accidents, cybersecurity incidents, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, extreme weather conditions, public health issues (including the covid-19 outbreak), military actions, acts of terrorism, political or regulatory issues and other man-made disasters or catastrophic events. global climate change could result in certain natural disasters occurring more frequently or with greater intensity, such as drought, wildfires, storms and flooding. we carry commercial property damage and business interruption insurance against various risks, with limits we deem adequate, for reimbursement for damage to our fixed assets and resulting disruption of our operations. however, the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could harm our business and result in significant losses, a decline in revenue and an increase in our costs and expenses. any disruptions from these events could require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations and could also have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results to the extent that losses are uninsured or exceed insurance recoveries and to the extent that such disruptions adversely impact our relationships with our customers. furthermore, even if our own operations are unaffected or recover quickly, if our customers cannot timely resume their own operations due to a business disruption, natural disaster or catastrophic event, they may reduce or cancel their orders, which may adversely affect our results of operations. 15 table of contents if we experience poor manufacturing yields, our operating results may suffer. our products have unique designs and are fabricated using multiple semiconductor process technologies that are highly complex. in many cases, our products are assembled in customized packages. many of our products consist of multiple components in a single module and feature enhanced levels of integration and complexity. our customers insist that our products be designed to meet their exact specifications for quality, performance and reliability. our manufacturing yield is a combination of yields across the entire supply chain, including wafer fabrication, assembly and test yields. defects in a single component in an assembled module product can impact the yield for the entire module, which means the adverse economic impacts of an individual defect can be multiplied many times over if we fail to discover the defect before the module is assembled. due to the complexity of our products, we periodically experience difficulties in achieving acceptable yields and other quality issues, particularly with respect to new products. our customers test our products once they have been assembled into their products. the number of usable products that result from our production process can fluctuate as a result of many factors, including: design errors; defects in photomasks (which are used to print circuits on a wafer); minute impurities and variations in materials used; contamination of the manufacturing environment; equipment failure or variations in the manufacturing processes; losses from broken wafers or other human error; and defects in substrates and packaging. we constantly seek to improve our manufacturing yields. typically, for a given level of sales, when our yields improve, our gross margins improve, and when our yields decrease, our unit costs are higher, our margins are lower, and our operating results are adversely affected. costs of product defects and deviations from required specifications include the following: writing off inventory; scrapping products that cannot be fixed; accepting returns of products that have been shipped; providing product replacements at no charge; reimbursement of direct and indirect costs incurred by our customers in recalling or reworking their products due to defects in our products; travel and personnel costs to investigate potential product quality issues and to identify or confirm the failure mechanism or root cause of product defects; and defending against litigation. these costs could be significant and could reduce our gross margins. our reputation with customers also could be damaged as a result of product defects and quality issues, and product demand could be reduced, which could harm our business and financial results. 16 table of contents we are subject to inventory risks and costs because we build our products based on forecasts provided by customers before receiving purchase orders for the products. in order to ensure availability of our products for some of our largest end customers, we start manufacturing certain products in advance of receiving purchase orders based on forecasts provided by these customers. however, these forecasts do not represent binding purchase commitments and we do not recognize sales for these products until they are shipped to or consumed by the customer. as a result, we incur significant inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales. because demand for our products may not materialize, or may be lower than expected, manufacturing based on forecasts subjects us to heightened risks of higher inventory carrying costs, increased obsolescence and higher operating costs. these inventory risks are exacerbated when our customers purchase indirectly through contract manufacturers or hold component inventory levels greater than their consumption rate because this reduces our visibility regarding the customers' accumulated levels of inventory. if product demand decreases or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to write off inventory, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin and other operating results. we sell certain of our products based on reference designs of platform providers, and our inability to effectively manage or maintain our evolving relationships with these companies may have an adverse effect on our business. platform providers are typically large companies that provide system reference designs for oems and odms that include the platform provider's baseband and other complementary products. a platform provider may own or control ip that gives it a strong market position for its baseband products for certain air interface standards, which provides it with significant influence and control over sales of rf products for these standards. platform providers historically looked to us and our competitors to provide rf products to their customers as part of the overall system design, and we competed with other rf companies to have our products included in the platform provider's system reference design. this market dynamic has evolved as platform providers have worked to develop more fully integrated solutions that include their own rf technologies and components. platform providers may be in a different business from ours or we may be their customer or direct competitor. accordingly, we must balance our interest in obtaining new business with competitive and other factors. because platform providers control the overall system reference design, if they offer competitive rf technologies or their own rf solutions as a part of their reference design and exclude our products from the design, we are at a distinct competitive disadvantage with oems and odms that are seeking a turn-key design solution, even if our products offer superior performance. this requires us to work more closely with oems and odms to secure the design of our products in their handsets and other devices. our relationships with platform providers are complex and evolving, and the inability to effectively manage or maintain these relationships could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to risks from international sales and operations. we operate globally with sales offices and r&amp;d activities as well as manufacturing, assembly and test facilities in multiple countries, and some of our business activities are concentrated in asia. as a result, we are subject to regulatory, geopolitical and other risks associated with doing business outside the u.s., including: global and local economic, social and political conditions and uncertainty; currency controls and fluctuations; formal or informal imposition of export, import or doing-business regulations, including trade sanctions, tariffs and other related restrictions; labor market conditions and workers' rights affecting our manufacturing operations or those of our customers or suppliers; disruptions in capital and securities and commodities trading markets; 17 table of contents occurrences of geopolitical crises such as terrorist activity, armed conflict, civil or military unrest or political instability, which may disrupt manufacturing, assembly, logistics, security and communications and result in reduced demand for our products; compliance with laws and regulations that differ among jurisdictions, including those covering taxes, intellectual property ownership and infringement, imports and exports, anti-corruption and anti-bribery, antitrust and competition, data privacy, and environment, health, and safety; and pandemics and similar major health concerns, including the covid-19 outbreak, which could adversely affect our business and our customer order patterns. sales to customers located outside the u.s. accounted for approximately 55% of our revenue in fiscal 2020 , of which approximately 34% and 5% were attributable to sales to customers located in china and taiwan, respectively. we expect that revenue from international sales to china and other markets will continue to be a significant part of our total revenue. any weakness in the chinese economy could result in a decrease in demand for consumer products that contain our products, which could materially and adversely affect our business. the imposition by the u.s. of tariffs on goods imported from china, countermeasures imposed by china in response, u.s. export restrictions on sales of products to china and other government actions that restrict or otherwise adversely affect our ability to sell our products to chinese customers, could increase our manufacturing costs and reduce our product sales in china and other markets. as a global company, our results are affected by movements in currency exchange rates. our exposure may increase or decrease over time as our foreign business levels fluctuate in the countries where we have operations, and these changes could have a material impact on our financial results. the functional currency for most of our international operations is the u.s. dollar. we have foreign operations in asia, europe and central america, and a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from sales to customers outside the u.s. our international revenue is primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. operating expenses and certain working capital items related to our foreign-based operations are, in some instances, denominated in the local foreign currencies and therefore are affected by changes in the u.s. dollar exchange rate in relation to foreign currencies, such as the costa rican colon, euro, pound sterling, renminbi and singapore dollar. if the u.s. dollar weakens compared to these and other currencies, our operating expenses for foreign operations will be higher when remeasured back into u.s. dollars. economic regulation in china could adversely impact our business and results of operations. we have a significant portion of our assembly and testing capacity in china. for many years, the chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid growth and wide fluctuations in the rate of inflation. in response to these factors, the chinese government has, from time to time, adopted measures to regulate growth and to contain inflation, including currency controls and measures designed to restrict credit, control prices or set currency exchange rates. such actions in the future, as well as other changes in chinese laws and regulations, including actions in furtherance of china's stated policy of reducing its dependence on foreign semiconductor manufacturers, could increase the cost of doing business in china, foster the emergence of chinese-based competitors, decrease the demand for our products in china, or reduce the supply of critical materials for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. changes in government trade policies, including the imposition of tariffs and export restrictions, could limit our ability to sell our products to certain customers, which may materially adversely affect our sales and results of operations. the u.s. or foreign governments may take administrative, legislative or regulatory action that could materially interfere with our ability to sell products in certain countries, particularly in china. for example, between july 2018 and june 2019, the office of the united states trade representative imposed 25% tariffs on specified product lists, including certain electronic components and equipment, totaling approximately $250 billion in chinese imports. in response, china imposed or proposed new or higher tariffs on u.s. products. the u.s. government also imposed 15% tariffs on an additional $120 billion of chinese imports, with china imposing retaliatory tariffs. while the imposition of these tariffs did not have a direct, material adverse impact on our business during fiscal year 2020, the direct and indirect effects of tariffs and other restrictive trade policies are difficult to measure and are only one part of a larger u.s./china economic and trade policy disagreement. for example, imposition of tariffs on our customers' products that are imported from china to the u.s. could harm sales of such products, which would harm 18 table of contents our business. we cannot predict what further actions may ultimately be taken with respect to tariffs or trade relations between the u.s. and china or other countries, what products may be subject to such actions, or what actions may be taken by the other countries in retaliation. furthermore, we have experienced restrictions on our ability to sell products to certain foreign customers where sales of products require export licenses or are prohibited by government action. the u.s. government has in the past issued export restrictions that effectively banned american companies from selling products to zte corporation, one of our customers, and in may 2019, the bureau of industry (bis) and security of the u.s. department of commerce added huawei technologies co., ltd. and over 100 of its affiliates to the entity list maintained by the department. huawei accounted for 10% , 15% and 8% of our total revenue during fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. while we subsequently restarted shipments to huawei of certain products from outside the u.s. that are not subject to the export administration regulations (ear), and while we have also applied for a license to ship other products that are subject to the ear, as required by the rules governing the entity list, our sales to huawei will continue to be impacted by trade restrictions. as of the date of this report, we are unable to predict the scope and duration of the export restrictions imposed on huawei and the corresponding future effects on our business. even if such restrictions are lifted, any financial or other penalties or continuing export restrictions imposed on huawei could have a continuing negative impact on our future revenue and results of operations. in addition, huawei or other foreign customers affected by future u.s. government sanctions or threats of sanctions may respond by developing their own solutions to replace our products or by adopting our foreign competitors' solutions. moreover, u.s. government actions targeting exports of certain technologies to china are becoming more pervasive. for example, in 2018, the u.s. adopted new laws designed to address concerns about the export of emerging and foundational technologies to china. in addition, in may 2019, an executive order was issued that invoked national emergency economic powers to implement a framework to regulate the acquisition or transfer of information communications technology in transactions that imposed undue national security risks. these actions could lead to additional restrictions on the export of products that include or enable certain technologies, including products we provide to china-based customers. the loss or temporary loss of huawei or other foreign customers or the imposition of restrictions on our ability to sell products to such customers as a result of tariffs, export restrictions or other u.s. regulatory actions could materially adversely affect our sales, business and results of operations. we operate in a very competitive industry and must continue to implement innovative technologies. we compete with several companies primarily engaged in the business of designing, manufacturing and selling rf solutions, as well as suppliers of discrete integrated circuits and modules. in addition to our direct competitors, some of our largest end customers and leading platform partners also compete with us to some extent by designing and manufacturing their own products. increased competition from any source could adversely affect our operating results through lower prices for our products, reduced demand for our products, losses of existing design slots with key customers and a corresponding reduction in our ability to recover development, engineering and manufacturing costs. many of our existing and potential competitors have entrenched market positions, historical affiliations with oems, considerable internal manufacturing capacity, established ip rights and substantial technological capabilities. the semiconductor industry has experienced increased industry consolidation over the last several years, a trend we expect to continue. many of our existing and potential competitors may have greater financial, technical, manufacturing or marketing resources than we do. we cannot be sure that we will be able to compete successfully with our competitors. industry overcapacity could cause us to underutilize our manufacturing facilities and have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. it is difficult to predict future demand for our products, which makes it difficult to estimate future requirements for production capacity and avoid periods of overcapacity. fluctuations in the growth rate of industry capacity relative to the growth rate in demand for our products also can lead to overcapacity and contribute to cyclicality in the semiconductor market. 19 table of contents capacity expansion projects have long lead times and require capital commitments based on forecasted product trends and demand well in advance of production orders from customers. in recent years, we have made significant capital investments to expand our premium filter capacity to address forecasted future demand patterns. in certain cases, these capacity additions exceeded the near-term demand requirements, leading to overcapacity situations and underutilization of our manufacturing facilities. as many of our manufacturing costs are fixed, these costs cannot be reduced in proportion to the reduced revenues experienced during periods of underutilization. underutilization of our manufacturing facilities can adversely affect our gross margin and other operating results. if demand for our products experiences a prolonged decrease, we may be required to close or idle facilities and write down our long-lived assets or shorten the useful lives of underutilized assets and accelerate depreciation, which would increase our expenses. for example, to address manufacturing overcapacity, in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 we commenced a phased closure of a saw filter manufacturing facility in florida and a transfer of production to our north carolina facility, which was completed in fiscal 2020. also, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, we announced the temporary idling of a baw manufacturing facility in texas. these actions resulted in impairment charges, accelerated depreciation and other restructuring related charges and expenses. we may not be able to borrow funds under our credit facility or secure future financing. on december 5, 2017, we entered into a five-year unsecured senior credit facility pursuant to a credit agreement with bank of america, n.a., as administrative agent, swing line lender and l/c issuer, and a syndicate of lenders (as amended, the "credit agreement"). the credit agreement includes a $300.0 million revolving credit facility, which is available for working capital, capital expenditures and other corporate purposes. the credit agreement contains various conditions, covenants and representations with which we must be in compliance in order to borrow funds. we cannot assure that we will be in compliance with these conditions, covenants and representations in the future when we may need to borrow funds under this facility. we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our debt, including our notes, or to fund capital expenditures and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our debt obligations and financing requirements, which may not be successful or on terms favorable to us. the credit agreement includes a $400.0 million senior delayed draw term loan (the "term loan"), of which $100.0 million was funded at closing and then subsequently repaid during march 2018. on june 17, 2019, the company drew $100.0 million of the term loan. the delayed draw availability period for the remaining $200.0 million of the term loan expired on december 31, 2019. we may request one or more additional tranches of term loans or increases in the revolving credit facility, up to an aggregate of $300.0 million and subject to securing additional funding commitments from the existing or new lenders. in november 2015, we issued $550.0 million aggregate principal amount of 7.00% senior notes due 2025 (the "2025 notes") pursuant to an indenture dated as of november 19, 2015 (as supplemented, the "2015 indenture"). we subsequently completed the repurchase of all but $23.4 million of the 2025 notes. additionally, in july 2018, august 2018 and march 2019, we issued $500.0 million , $130.0 million and $270.0 million , respectively, aggregate principal amount of 5.50% senior notes due 2026 (the "2026 notes") pursuant to an indenture dated as of july 16, 2018 (as supplemented, the 2018 indenture ). in september 2019 and december 2019, we issued $350.0 million and $200.0 million , respectively, aggregate principal amount of 4.375% senior notes due 2029 (the 2029 notes and together with the 2025 notes and the 2026 notes, the notes ) pursuant to an indenture dated as of september 30, 2019 (as supplemented, the 2019 indenture and together with the 2015 indenture and the 2018 indenture, the indentures ). our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations, including the term loan and the notes, and to fund working capital, planned capital expenditures and expansion efforts and any strategic alliances or acquisitions we may make in the future depends on our ability to generate cash in the future and on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. we cannot be sure that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay our debt, including the term loan and the notes. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may face liquidity issues and be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital 20 table of contents or restructure or refinance our debt. these alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service and other obligations. additionally, the credit agreement and the indentures limit the use of the proceeds from any disposition; as a result, we may not be allowed under these documents to use proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy our debt service obligations. further, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt at or before maturity, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. the agreements and instruments governing our debt impose restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility. the credit agreement governing our revolving credit facility and the term loan and the indentures governing the notes contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability to: incur additional debt; pay dividends, make other distributions or repurchase or redeem our capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; make loans and investments; sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of assets; incur or permit to exist certain liens; enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; and consolidate, amalgamate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. these covenants could have the effect of limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the markets in which we compete. in addition, the credit agreement requires us to comply with certain financial maintenance covenants. operating results below current levels or other adverse factors, including a significant increase in interest rates, could result in our being unable to comply with the financial covenants contained in our revolving credit facility. if we violate covenants under the credit agreement and are unable to obtain a waiver from our lenders, our debt under our revolving credit facility would be in default and could be accelerated by our lenders. because of cross-default provisions in the agreements and instruments governing our debt, a default under one agreement or instrument could result in a default under, and the acceleration of, our other debt. if our debt is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, or terms that are acceptable to us. if our debt is in default for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, complying with these covenants may also cause us to take actions that are not favorable to holders of the notes and may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions. the price of our common stock has recently been and may in the future be volatile. the price of our common stock, which is traded on the nasdaq global select market, has been and may continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. in addition, the trading volume of our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. some of the factors that could cause fluctuations in the stock price or trading volume of our common stock include: general market and economic and political conditions, including market conditions in the semiconductor industry; actual or expected variations in quarterly operating results; 21 table of contents pandemics and similar major health concerns, including the covid-19 outbreak; differences between actual operating results and those expected by investors and analysts; changes in recommendations by securities analysts; operations and stock performance of competitors and major customers; accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment of goodwill and restructuring; significant acquisitions, strategic alliances, capital commitments, or new products announced by us or by our competitors; sales of our common stock, including sales by our directors and officers or significant investors; repurchases of our common stock; recruitment or departure of key personnel; and loss of key customers. we cannot assure that the price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. in addition, the stock market in general can experience considerable price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to our performance. damage to our reputation or brand could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. our reputation is a critical factor in our relationships with customers, employees, governments, suppliers and other stakeholders. if we fail to address issues that give rise to reputational risk, including those described throughout this risk factors section, we could significantly harm our reputation and our brand. our reputation may also be damaged by how we respond to corporate crises. corporate crises can arise from catastrophic events as well as from incidents involving product quality, security, or safety issues; allegations of unethical behavior or misconduct or legal noncompliance; internal control failures; corporate governance issues; data or privacy breaches; workplace safety incidents; environmental incidents; the use of our products for illegal or objectionable applications; media statements; the conduct of our suppliers or representatives; and other issues or incidents that, whether actual or perceived, result in adverse publicity. if we fail to respond quickly and effectively to address such crises, the ensuing negative public reaction could significantly harm our reputation and our brands and could lead to litigation or subject us to regulatory actions or restrictions. damage to our reputation could harm customer relations, reduce demand for our products, reduce investor confidence in us, adversely affect our stock price, and may also limit our ability to be seen as an employer of choice when competing for highly skilled employees. moreover, repairing our reputation and brands may be difficult, time-consuming and expensive. we may have fluctuations in the amount and frequency of our stock repurchases. we are not obligated to make repurchases under our stock repurchase program and the program may be modified, suspended or terminated at any time without notice. the amount and timing of our stock repurchases may vary based on a number of factors, including our priorities regarding the use of our cash such as capital investments and acquisitions, restrictions under securities laws and existing debt agreements, the availability of attractive financing sources and the optimization of our capital structure, as well as changes in our cash flows, tax laws and the market price of our common stock. our recent and future acquisitions and other strategic investments, could fail to achieve our financial or strategic objectives, disrupt our ongoing business, and adversely impact our results of operations. as part of our business strategy and as demonstrated in our recent acquisitions, we expect to continue to review potential acquisitions and strategic investments that could complement our current product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technical capabilities, or that may otherwise offer growth or margin improvement 22 table of contents opportunities. in the event of future acquisitions of businesses, products or technologies, we could issue equity securities that would dilute our current stockholders' ownership, incur substantial debt or other financial obligations or assume contingent liabilities. such actions could harm our results of operations or the price of our common stock. acquisitions and strategic investments also entail numerous other risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including: failure to complete a transaction in a timely manner, if at all, due to our inability to obtain required government or other approvals, ip disputes or other litigation, difficulty in obtaining financing on terms acceptable to us, or other unforeseen factors; controls, processes, and procedures of an acquired business may not adequately ensure compliance with laws and regulations, and we may fail to identify compliance issues or liabilities; unanticipated costs, capital expenditures or working capital requirements; acquisition-related charges and amortization of acquired technology and other intangibles; the potential loss of key employees from a company we acquire or in which we invest; diversion of management's attention from our business; disruption of our ongoing operations; dissynergies or other harm to existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; losses or impairment of investments from unsuccessful research and development by companies in which we invest; failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses, operations, products, technologies and personnel; and unrealized expected synergies. moreover, our resources are limited and our decision to pursue a transaction has opportunity costs; accordingly, if we pursue a particular transaction, we may need to forgo the prospect of entering into other transactions that could help us achieve our financial or strategic objectives. any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows, particularly in the case of a large acquisition. in order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate key employees, and our failure to do so could harm our business and our results of operations. in order to compete effectively, we must: hire and retain qualified employees; continue to develop leaders for key business units and functions; expand our presence in international locations and adapt to cultural norms of foreign locations; and train and motivate our employee base. our future operating results and success depend on keeping key technical personnel and management and expanding our sales and marketing, r&amp;d and administrative support. we do not have employment agreements with the vast majority of our employees. we must also continue to attract qualified personnel. the competition for qualified personnel is intense, and the number of people with experience, particularly in rf engineering, integrated circuit and filter design, and technical marketing and support, is limited. in addition, existing or new immigration laws, policies or regulations in the u.s. may limit the pool of available talent. travel bans, difficulties obtaining visas and other restrictions on international travel could make it more difficult to effectively manage our international operations, operate as a global company or service our international customer base. changes in the interpretation and 23 table of contents application of employment-related laws to our workforce practices may also result in increased operating costs and less flexibility in how we meet our changing workforce needs. we cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain skilled personnel in the future, which could harm our business and our results of operations. we rely on our intellectual property portfolio and may not be able to successfully protect against the use of our intellectual property by third parties. we rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. we cannot be certain that patents will be issued from any of our pending applications or that patents will be issued in all countries where our products can be sold. further, we cannot be certain that any claims allowed from pending applications will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection against our competitors. our competitors may also be able to design around our patents. the laws of some countries in which our products are developed, manufactured or sold may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as u.s. laws. this increases the possibility of misappropriation or infringement of our technology and products. although we intend to vigorously defend our intellectual property rights, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our technology. additionally, our competitors may be able to independently develop non-infringing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. we may need to engage in legal actions to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights. generally, intellectual property litigation is both expensive and unpredictable. our involvement in intellectual property litigation could divert the attention of our management and technical personnel and have a material, adverse effect on our business. we may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. our operating results may be adversely affected if third parties were to assert claims that our products infringed their patent, copyright or other intellectual property rights. such assertions could lead to expensive and unpredictable litigation, diverting the attention of management and technical personnel. an unsuccessful result in any such litigation could have adverse effects on our business, which may include injunctions, exclusion orders and royalty payments to third parties. in addition, if one of our customers or another supplier to one of our customers were found to be infringing on third-party intellectual property rights, such finding could adversely affect the demand for our products. security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our proprietary information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. we rely on trade secrets, technical know-how and other unpatented proprietary information relating to our product development and manufacturing activities to provide us with competitive advantages. we protect this information by entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, strategic partners and other third parties. we also design our computer networks and implement various procedures to restrict unauthorized access to dissemination of our proprietary information. we face internal and external data security threats. current, departing or former employees or third parties could attempt to improperly use or access our computer systems and networks to copy, obtain or misappropriate our proprietary information or otherwise interrupt our business. like others, we are also subject to significant system or network disruptions from numerous causes, including computer viruses and other cyber-attacks, facility access issues, new system implementations and energy blackouts. security breaches, computer malware, phishing, spoofing, and other cyber-attacks have become more prevalent and sophisticated in recent years. while we defend against these threats on a daily basis, we do not believe that such attacks to date have caused us any material damage. because the techniques used by computer hackers and others to access or sabotage networks constantly evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate, counter or ameliorate all of these techniques. as a result, our and our customers' proprietary information may be misappropriated and the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted. any loss of such information could harm our competitive position, result in a loss of customer confidence in the adequacy of our threat mitigation and detection processes and procedures, cause us to incur significant costs to remedy the damages caused by the incident, and divert management and other resources. we routinely implement 24 table of contents improvements to our network security safeguards and we are devoting increasing resources to the security of our information technology systems. we cannot, however, assure that such system improvements will be sufficient to prevent or limit the damage from any future cyber-attack or network disruptions. the costs related to cyber-attacks or other security threats or computer systems disruptions typically would not be fully insured or indemnified by others. occurrence of any of the events described above could result in loss of competitive advantages derived from our r&amp;d efforts or our ip. moreover, these events may result in the early obsolescence of our products, product development delays, or diversion of the attention of management and key information technology and other resources, or otherwise adversely affect our internal operations and reputation or degrade our financial results and stock price. we may be subject to theft, loss, or misuse of personal data by or about our employees, customers or other third parties, which could increase our expenses, damage our reputation, or result in legal or regulatory proceedings. in the ordinary course of our business, we have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information regarding our employees and others that is subject to privacy and security laws and regulations. the theft, loss, or misuse of personal data collected, used, stored, or transferred by us to run our business, or by our third-party service providers, including business process software applications providers and other vendors that have access to sensitive data, could result in damage to our reputation, disruption of our business activities, significantly increased business and security costs or costs related to defending legal claims. global privacy legislation, enforcement, and policy activity in this area are rapidly expanding and creating a complex regulatory compliance environment. for example, the european union has adopted the general data protection regulation ("gdpr"), which requires companies to comply with rules regarding the handling of personal data, including its use, protection and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete such data about themselves. failure to meet gdpr requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. in addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the u.s., europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and fluid, and may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. complying with these changing laws has caused, and could continue to cause, us to incur substantial costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. further, failure to comply with existing or new rules may result in significant penalties or orders to stop the alleged non-compliant activity. finally, even our inadvertent failure to comply with federal, state, or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in audits, regulatory inquiries or proceedings against us by governmental entities or others. we are subject to warranty claims, product recalls and product liability. from time to time, we may be subject to warranty or product liability claims that could lead to significant expense. we may also be exposed to such claims as a result of any acquisition we may undertake in the future. although we maintain reserves for reasonably estimable liabilities and purchase product liability insurance, we may elect to self-insure with respect to certain matters and our reserves may be inadequate to cover the uninsured portion of such claims. product liability insurance is subject to significant deductibles, and such insurance may be unavailable or inadequate to protect against all claims. if one of our customers recalls a product containing one of our devices, we may incur significant costs and expenses, including replacement costs, direct and indirect product recall-related costs, diversion of technical and other resources and reputational harm. our customer contracts typically contain warranty and indemnification provisions, and in certain cases may also contain liquidated damages provisions, relating to product quality issues. the potential liabilities associated with such provisions are significant, and in some cases, including in agreements with some of our largest end customers, are potentially unlimited. any such liabilities may greatly exceed any revenue we receive from sale of the relevant products. costs, payments or damages incurred or paid by us in connection with warranty and product liability claims and product recalls could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to risks associated with environmental, health and safety regulations and climate change. we are subject to a broad array of u.s. and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. these laws and regulations include those related to the use, transportation, storage, handling, emission, discharge and 25 table of contents recycling or disposal of hazardous materials used in our manufacturing, assembly and testing processes. our failure to comply with any of these existing or future laws or regulations could result in: regulatory penalties and fines; legal liabilities, including financial responsibility for remedial measures if our properties are contaminated; expenses to secure required permits and governmental approvals; reputational damage; suspension or curtailment of our manufacturing, assembly and test processes; and increased costs to acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment or to modify our equipment, facilities or manufacturing processes to bring them into compliance with applicable laws and regulations. existing and future environmental laws and regulations could also impact our product designs and limit or restrict the materials or components that are included in our products. in addition, many of our largest end customers require us to comply with corporate social responsibility policies, which often include employment, health, safety, environmental and other requirements that exceed applicable legal requirements. compliance with these policies increases our operating expenses, and non-compliance can adversely affect customer relationships and harm our business. new climate change laws and regulations could require us to change our manufacturing processes or procure substitute raw materials that may cost more or be more difficult to procure. in addition, new restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases could result in increased costs for us and our suppliers. various jurisdictions are developing other climate change-based regulations that also may increase our expenses and adversely affect our operating results. we expect increased worldwide regulatory activity relating to climate change in the future. future compliance with these laws and regulations may adversely affect our business and results of operations. compliance with regulations regarding the use of conflict minerals could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. regulations in the u.s. currently require that we determine whether certain materials used in our products, referred to as conflict minerals, originated in the democratic republic of the congo or adjoining countries, or were from recycled or scrap sources. we may face challenges with government regulators and our customers and suppliers if we are unable to sufficiently make any required determination that the metals used in our products are conflict free. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the general corporation law of the state of delaware may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying, deterring, preventing or rendering more difficult, a change in control of qorvo that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. these provisions include: granting to the board of directors sole power to set the number of directors and fill any vacancy on the board of directors, whether such vacancy occurs as a result of an increase in the number of directors or otherwise; the ability of the board of directors to designate and issue one or more series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, the terms of which may be determined at the sole discretion of the board of directors; the inability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; establishment of advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to the board of directors at stockholder meetings; and 26 table of contents the inability of stockholders to act by written consent. in addition, the general corporation law of the state of delaware contains provisions that regulate business combinations between corporations and interested stockholders who own 15% or more of the corporation's voting stock, except under certain circumstances. these provisions could also discourage potential acquisition proposals and delay or prevent a change in control. these provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit of any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context and may also make it more difficult for a third party to replace directors on our board of directors. further, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. our operating results could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies. the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see "critical accounting policies and estimates" in part ii, item 7 of this report). such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments that could significantly affect our results of operations. decisions we make about the scope of our future operations could affect our future financial results. from time to time, changes in the business environment have led us to change the scope of our operations or business, which has resulted in restructuring and asset impairment charges, and this could occur in the future. the amount and timing of such charges can be difficult to predict. factors that contribute to the amount and timing of such charges include: the timing and execution of plans and programs that are subject to local labor law requirements, including consultation with appropriate work councils; changes in assumptions related to severance and post-retirement costs; the timing of future divestitures and the amount and type of proceeds realized from such divestitures; and changes in the fair value of certain long-lived assets and goodwill. changes in our effective tax rate may adversely impact our results of operations. we are subject to taxation in china, germany, singapore, the u.s. and numerous other foreign taxing jurisdictions. our effective tax rate is subject to fluctuations as it is impacted by a number of factors, including the following: changes in our overall profitability and the amount of profit determined to be earned and taxed in jurisdictions with differing statutory tax rates; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, including those described in note 13 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements set forth in part ii, item 8 of this report; changes in the valuation of either our gross deferred tax assets or gross deferred tax liabilities; adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; changes in expenses not deductible for tax purposes; changes in available tax credits; and changes in tax laws, domestic and foreign, or the interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles. 27 table of contents any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods. changes in the favorable tax status of our subsidiaries in singapore and costa rica would have an adverse impact on our operating results. our subsidiaries in singapore and costa rica have been granted tax holidays that effectively minimize our tax expense and that are expected to be effective through december 2021 and december 2027, respectively. in their efforts to deal with budget deficits, governments around the world are focusing on increasing tax revenues through increased audits and, potentially, increased tax rates for corporations. as part of this effort, governments continue to review their policies on granting tax holidays. in february 2017, singapore enacted legislation that will exclude from our existing development and expansion incentive grant the benefit of the reduced tax rate for intellectual property income earned after june 30, 2021. future changes in the status of either tax holiday could have a negative effect on our net income in future years. the enactment of international or domestic tax legislation, or changes in regulatory guidance, may adversely impact our results of operations. corporate tax reform, base-erosion efforts, and increased tax transparency continue to be high priorities in many tax jurisdictions in which we have business operations. in 2017, the u.s. enacted comprehensive tax legislation, commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ), which included a number of changes to u.s. tax laws that impacted us, including the one-time transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries (the transitional repatriation tax ) and the global intangible low-taxed income ( gilti ) provisions. in addition, other countries are beginning to implement legislation and other guidance to align their international tax rules with the organisation for economic co-operation and development's base erosion and profit shifting recommendations and action plan, which aim to standardize and modernize global corporate tax policy, including changes to cross-border tax, transfer pricing documentations rules, and nexus-based tax incentive practices. legislative changes, interpretations and guidance, and changes in prior tax rulings and decisions by tax authorities regarding treatments and positions of corporate income taxes resulting from these initiatives, could increase our effective tax rate and result in taxes we previously paid being subject to change, which may adversely impact our financial position and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. financial risk management we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity prices and certain commodity prices. the overall objective of our financial risk management program is to seek a reduction in the potential negative earnings effects from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity prices, and commodity prices arising from our business activities. we manage these financial exposures through operational means and by using various financial instruments, when deemed appropriate. these practices may change as economic conditions change. interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk via the terms of our credit facility, which is comprised of a term loan and revolving facility with interest rates (see note 9 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements set forth in part ii, item 8 of this report). the outstanding balance related to the credit facility as of march 28, 2020 was $100.0 million . a potential change in the associated interest rates would be immaterial to the results of our operations. foreign currency exchange rate risk as a global company, our results are affected by movements in currency exchange rates. our exposure may increase or decrease over time as our foreign business levels fluctuate in the countries where we have operations, and these changes could have a material impact on our financial results. the functional currency for most of our international operations is the u.s. dollar. we have foreign operations in asia, central america and europe, and a substantial portion of our revenue is derived from sales to customers outside the u.s. our international revenue is primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. operating expenses and certain working capital items related to our foreign-based operations are, in some instances, denominated in the local foreign currencies and therefore are affected by changes in the u.s. dollar exchange rate in relation to foreign currencies, such as the costa rican colon, euro, pound sterling, renminbi, and singapore dollar. if the u.s. dollar weakens compared to these and other currencies, our operating expenses for foreign operations will be higher when remeasured back into u.s. dollars. we seek to manage our foreign currency exchange risk in part through operational means. for fiscal 2020 , we incurred a foreign currency loss of $2.2 million as compared to a loss of $2.1 million in fiscal 2019 , which is recorded in other income (expense). our financial instrument holdings, including foreign receivables, cash and payables at march 28, 2020 , were analyzed to determine their sensitivity to foreign exchange rate changes. in this sensitivity analysis, we assumed that the change in one currency's rate relative to the u.s. dollar would not have an effect on other currencies' rates relative to the u.s. dollar. all other factors were held constant. if the u.s. dollar declined in value 10% in relation to the re-measured foreign currency instruments, our net income would have decreased by approximately $2.8 46 table of contents million . if the u.s. dollar increased in value 10% in relation to the re-measured foreign currency instruments, our net income would have increased by approximately $2.3 million . equity price risk our marketable equity investments in publicly traded companies are subject to equity market price risk. accordingly, a fluctuation in the price of each equity security could have an adverse impact on the fair value of our investments. as of march 28, 2020 , our equity investments were immaterial (see note 7 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements set forth in part ii, item 8 of this report). commodity price risk we routinely use precious metals in the manufacture of our products. supplies for such commodities may from time to time become restricted, or general market factors and conditions may affect the pricing of such commodities. we also have an active reclamation process to capture any unused gold. while we attempt to mitigate the risk of increases in commodities-related costs, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully safeguard against potential short-term and long-term commodity price fluctuations. 47 table of contents